ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to look at the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 1 October this year at a distance. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on draft laws under consideration. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Law on the Historical Lands of Latvia” presented by the President of Latvia be referred to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U2	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I would like to point out that the discussions in the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, when we discussed with local governments, almost every time raised the issue of how to strengthen and develop culture, cultural and historical traditions. It was for this reason that we stated in the draft law that by the end of this year the Ministry of Culture should come up with a plan on how to ensure it. At the same time, the commission and the Saeima voted for the need for a separate draft law on the identification of cultural and historical lands and the strengthening of culture. It is clear that it is not possible to set strict boundaries in nature for cultural traditions and cultural and historical communities. The traditions and heritage of the ancestors of the countries of cultural history, which are moving from generation to generation, has always been a very important factor for many nations to demonstrate their own identity and also for the development of the cultural environment. Although the preservation of such traditions depends primarily on the communities themselves, it is essential that there is also a policy pursued by the state and local authorities to preserve such cultural and historical values, and it is this draft law which establishes this obligation accordingly. The draft law also marks the naturally-established structure of the cultural and historical territorial division. It is based on the ethnographic characteristics of our people, the various dialects and cultural historical values enshrined in the centuries and their inheritance, which are indicators of ethnic culture. At the same time, when we work on this draft law, which we will certainly be doing in the Commission with great responsibility, we must look not only at how to preserve and preserve cultural and historical identity and diversity, but also, looking at the development of today, how we can develop the particularities of this cultural and historical identity. That is why, colleagues, I am calling for support for the transfer of this draft law to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, where we will be able to discuss in detail and in detail the best options for realising them in nature.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U3	Thank you. Mrs. Liepaja, are you going to speak 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U4	I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U5	“Pret” has applied to speak to Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U6	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! I will vote against this draft law by the President of Latvia because, in my opinion, what we could also have seen excellently during a period of very hasty, very ill-considered adoption of the Law on Administrative Areas and settlements... It is clear that the concepts, which are then the law of the historical lands of Latvia, are mixed, as if now what comes... which is the cultural heritage and which is administrative... and which would then be an administrative territorial reform. A great example is the Varaklani, my dear Varaklani. I am already ready to move to Varaklans to put an end to this absurdity. What you did with the Varaklanes in the context of administrative territorial reform - listen! You confused! There is a story about culture. From a cultural point of view, Varakļāni will always have roots in Latgale - no one will ever change it - but in what connection you did not allow people who, for 30 years, have linked their lives to Madon administration... Is that so? What was that? That is why I think there is a huge confusion. I don't know if it's just the President's Palace or... Of course, in the Saeima, by itself. The concepts are mixed, there is a general confusion about things, about elementary things that, in my opinion, are clear for every mayor. But, somehow, this clarity of mind does not come to the premises of the Saeima or to the castle of the President. That's why this... I will not support it because I believe that there are simply basic things that are self-evident and that do not need to be enshrined in any law. Well, what else do we now, what else could we strengthen in some law? Dear friends, we have too many laws. We come back to the roots, to the values that cannot be described in any law - either they are or they are not. Thank you. I will vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U7	Thank you. One Member talks about the handing over of the draft law to the commission, one about 'yes', one about 'no'. No debate is expected. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Law on the Historical Lands of Latvia” to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Please open a section on the procedure. Linda Liepiņa, a Member, wanted to speak about the procedure. Please log in to the system! The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U8	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! I would therefore also like to see this sitting in the very beginning... So the sitting of 1 October is, in my opinion, also held illegally, and the format... Such a format is not provided by the Satversme, nor by the laws operating in the Republic of Latvia. I therefore only take part in expressing my views on these irregularities and representing 44 662 voters who cast their vote for me in the Saeima elections. But I believe that this is an unlegislative measure that must be completed as soon as possible. I would also call on both the Speaker of the Saeima and the Constitutional Court to finally engage in this absurdity. Come on, and maybe we can finally return to the Constitution and the laws that exist in the Republic of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U9	Thank you. We heard the opinion of Member Linda Liepiņš. Dear colleagues, I invite you to familiarize yourself with the comments of the Satversme that have recently been made and are available, in which also... where comments on the work of the Saeima are also available, including comments on the work of the Saeima remotely, and it has been concluded that it is compatible with the Constitution. Let's keep going. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Professions and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote for the referral of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” to the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And now the draft law is passed on to the commission and the first reading. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on the Law on Higher Education presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education” to the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. And now the first reading of the draft law. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education”. Member Reinis Znotiņš on behalf of the commission responsible. Mr. Znotiņš is not currently on the platform e-Saema. I call on the chairman of the Commission, Mr Asheraden, to report on the particular draft law. Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U10	Hello, dear colleagues! The aim of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education” is to ensure the continuous operation of accredited courses. And it has to be said that the spread of Covid-19 worldwide and the restrictions on the entry and exit of persons by several European countries in general have created significant problems for attracting accreditation experts. Consequently, an extension of the six-month accreditation period is necessary for at least seven accredited study fields for which the accreditation period is 2021, i.e. the next one. So I ask the Saeima to support this draft law and to start with supporting it as an urgent and then to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U11	Thank you. So let us first vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent. Members want to have a debate. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U12	I am sorry, Madam President, I had applied to say that, instead of Mr Znotiņš, so I do not want to debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U13	It's okay. Yeah, thank you. So Members do not want to debate. And the Commission has called for support to the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education”! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U14	So, I call for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals on 8 October and then for the parliamentary session to be held in two weeks' time, after 8 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U15	So on 22 October. Is the opinion of the Education, Culture, and Science Committee properly understood?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U16	Yeah, you got it right.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U18	Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U19	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 8 October of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 22 October of this year. Please open the procedure section. Ms Jūlija Stepanenko has applied for the procedure. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U20	Colleagues! Reflecting on Mrs Mūrniece's comment (Interface.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U21	Apply! Yeah. Please register again in the system.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U22	How many times do I have to apply, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U23	While we see that you've registered for a time report. Please provide assistance to the Member on how to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U24	Colleagues! Reflecting on Mrs Mūrniece's reply to what Mrs Liepiņa said, it is not enough to read the books, it is also necessary to understand what you are doing to the Bureau at all. And your voluntar decision to reopen the platform e-Saami is not due to the fact that you may have read one book and realized that the emergency situation is also... is not the same as exceptional circumstances. This is what we are trying to tell you all morning: you have not made your decision, no matter what the circumstances are, you have not pointed it out. The only circumstances that you have pointed out are the decision of 10 June, which is not currently in force. Therefore, learn to write decisions as well, learn to lead the Saeima in such a way that you are not ashamed of what you have worked on before the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U25	We have heard the political views of Member Julia Stepanenko on holding the Saeima's sitting on the e-platform. Indeed, we can therefore, politically, all say what we think, and political assessments are purely political assessments. The Saeima Bureau gave its explanation on the start of work (Interinstitutional statement). Today at 9 a.m., when Members closed various technical gaps related to computers and e-signatures. Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem. Member Gobzem also wants to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U26	Yes, Mrs. Moore! I would urge you not to boast that it is the only book in life that you have read. And I remind you that those people who know laws know that in the application of laws the Latvian legal system provides that when applying laws, legal norms apply, not - what a guy has written in a book, because we can all write the books. I can write, Mrs Mūrniece, you can also write a book in free time, because we are acting remotely and we can do that. That's why there's already a call...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U27	Thank you. Please turn off the microphone for Member Gobzem! We have heard, and I call again and will repeat this Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure: the exchange of comments or thoughts on the instructions of the chair of the sitting regarding the conduct of the sitting is not permissible. Please turn on the microphone for Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U28	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! Well, I see that the only book that Mrs Mūrniece has learned is the Rule of Conduct. It's okay. It's okay. It is also appropriate to get acquainted with the other, which is the Satversme. But now, referring to this, Mrs Murniece, what you said you had told us this morning at 9.00. Well, wait, this... it is a different sitting. We had the sitting at 9.00... Which one was called in September? This is another sitting. The next day, if that's the case, after the Order roll, where... well, I think you know well, that's exactly what it is. A new day, a new sitting, a new claim against it. I would very much like to invite you to read again perhaps all of the long pentera that you have read - how legitimately, in your opinion and in the opinion of the Bureau, and, and, and... The President's Palace is in a How many legal things is this? You can start reading it again. I believe that this is illegal and is an absolutely unlegislative measure that is taking place here today. That's... Crawl, Saeima Crawl.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U29	All right, thank you, we have now also heard the political views of Member Liepiņa. Colleagues, the explanation was given, and we will continue our work. Indeed, the agenda is very ambitious today. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U30	Hello, colleagues! ‘ Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection’. A total of nine proposals were received in the draft law. We'll go right through them all without delay. 1. - Sanda Ģirgens, Minister for the Interior, proposal that the police, the border guard and the local government police have the right to stop the vehicle and check that the persons in the vehicle have fulfilled their obligation to enter themselves into the information system when entering from abroad. In the Commission, this proposal is supported by editorial clarification. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Gürgen! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U32	Thank you. 2. - the proposal by the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele on the use of the system for identifying and alerting contact persons and the exchange of data at the level of the European Union, and the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the system administrators. The Commission has been supported by editorial clarification. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U33	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U34	Colleagues! Dear President of the Saeima. I would urge you not to support what Mrs. Viņķele is encouraging. In my opinion, where Viņķele is there is not a system, but an ever bigger barrack, there is a total attempt to control, scare and so on, and so on. And at the end of the day... So, ‘at the end of the day’ - the translator - no one will know how much it will cost. It's going to cost a lot. I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected and not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U35	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U36	No, nothing is added on behalf of the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Health, Viņķelis! Please, let's vote! - 82, against - 3, refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U38	Thank you, colleagues. 3. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau to improve the wording of the original article of the bill on medical examinations of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior system and of the administration of prisons, which shall be extended until 31 March 2021. The Commission is supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The legal office's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U40	Thank you, colleagues. 4. - a proposal by the Minister of Defence Arta Pabriks on the purchase of personal protective equipment, medical devices and laboratory testing services for such goods, on the centralised acquisition without applying the Law on Public Procurement and on the issue of such goods to the supply coordinators. The Commission is supported... partially supported. ( The sound is broken.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U41	Mr. Rancan, we can't hear you. Mr Rancan, I would like to call for a report once again, because there was a break, we did not hear you. Mr. Rancan, try again to enter the system and report on this bill... on this proposal again.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U42	(Long break.) ... with a moderator. Yeah, thank you. I've finally got the moderators on my microphone. Thank you very much. Again. Consequently, the proposal of the Minister of Defence Art Pabrik for the centralised purchase of personal protective equipment, medical devices and laboratory testing services for those goods, without applying the Public Procurement Act, as well as for the provision of these goods to the supply coordinators, rather than for delivery, as previously stipulated in the law, that the Ministry of Defence also supplied the institutions. That is the proposal. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U43	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U44	Yes, colleagues! Dear President of the Saeima. So what's that gonna be? No purchases, nothing... Once again, where's the money... so it's going to run away or what? What are you... Is that so? Then, Mr. Rancan, explain. If you don't apply the Public Procurement Law, how you will control everything so that it's much less transparent so that you don't have any corrupt attempts again, or that you don't do any tough pants again, well, somehow... But tell me what the system is? If you say that this proposal, which you partially support, is perhaps contained in proposal 5. Just give me some logic for this here. Will you not apply anything at all, or will you still apply anything? Who will then be accountable, and how can you then be controlled? If there is a problem - so the procurement procedure is not applicable - what will we apply? If there's someone holding his hands and taking something for himself, put it in his pocket, as you can... Is that so? Can I bring you to justice? Can't? I would like to hear a broader explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U45	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U46	Yes, Mrs. Moore! Before I start the debate, I call for me not to ignore me next time I have applied for a procedure because I had applied for a procedure. You ignored. But when I talk about the debate on this issue, I would like to say that everything connected with the Covid-19 that takes place in Parliament is now an absolute farce. There is no need for procedures where the Public Procurement Act is not respected and where, once again, there is no transparent public... the visible way will be purchased again at expensive prices... By the way, an example is those facial masks that the country bought for 28 euro or more. The best... Highest quality masks could be bought for 6 euros while the state bought some 3D printers... weak quality for EUR 28 and in such a spirit. On facial masks, as far as I understand, there's also a criminal case... Something moving or not going forward? And I have no doubt that this is again another attempt to steal the state, just like an attempt to steal the constitution. Because the constitution is not translated by a man-recorded commentary in the book, but the constitution is translated by what is written in the legal norms. First of all. Therefore, I also show you very demonstratively today that all that is related to the Covid-19 is a farce that is happening in Latvia. People in Latvia do not die of this disease. There is no evidence in Latvia, no evidence to show that we would have ever had an epidemic or a pandemic, that we could not have children going to school, that we could not have events on 9 May, then on Tērbatas Street and in such a spirit. That is, and now it is reported that there are some asymptomatic patients. I'm sorry, maybe we're all sick with a symptomless rotavirus, but we're not tested for it. I therefore call on the whole of society, however, to be very careful and understand that the whole of society is being waxed behind the nose here. The work of the Saeima is specially remote. Special purchases are made without procurement procedures because it is easier, in my view, to steal the country and society. I call for this to finally be prevented. I call on the public to wake up and understand that what is happening now in Latvia is absolutely unacceptable. Why Latvia is doing this if we see that Sweden, which is large in the world for the best chosen model, where all statistics are now better than everywhere else... We have never gone to the Swedish model, although Sweden is much closer to us than some countries we are trying to “reference” to there as if (in the footsteps). And one more thing. If we look at statistics that are so terrible, then these statistics show that most people who have gone to her are already at a very respectable age. I do not remember that in the last 30 or 100 years someone in the territory of the Republic of Latvia would have been so worried about an eighty-five-year-old pensioner, as has happened, say, at this time. And that's why it's simple once again - because people who may have less education, less understanding of questions, can get into... Through such a fear-making policy, through a policy that is beautiful in words, but in works it is not very dull and dirty; these people simply congregate. I invite everyone, including all pensioners, who watch “Panorama” every day and believe in “Panoramas”, to finally open their eyes and understand that there is no epidemic and no pandemic in Latvia and there is no need to buy at expensive prices without tendering. We need a transparent procedure and transparent issues. And why, too, I want to show you this farce... For what happens is simply an insane, it doesn't happen anywhere in the world! No developed democracy takes place in Latvia. Before your eyes, dear Latvian people steal the country of Latvia! How long will it last? You will get taxes up again from January 1st! I'm telling you that. You will see the newspaper, and you will see that you will have higher taxes again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U47	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U48	Colleagues! Thank Linda Liepiņš for her question. There really is a little more explanation here. Similar concerns as you also had in the Commission. And we asked these questions, because it seems not to look too good. However, this proposal has a rational explanation... a useful explanation. The explanation is that these procurement rules significantly prolong the time taken to purchase medical devices and personal protective equipment, and here it is taken into account that these devices and equipment still need to be tested in time-barred laboratories. And then the common idea is not that we will buy something now, but we will get the final product when the Covid-19 is over. In other words, the purpose of this proposal is to reduce this bureaucracy and increase our ability to react quickly and quickly. Regarding concerns about corruption and expensive purchases, as Aldis said. I would say that we already have experience with this - that the State Audit Office controls very quickly so that these procurements are useful and comply with all the laws, which provide that state money should not be squandered. And finally, before I... If this explanation is not enough, of course, we can also explain even more, but I would also like to point out to Aldim: I do not know what data he is following, but the best situation in the field of Covid-19 is in Latvia, not Sweden. In Sweden it is not the best one and can be consulted on each available public data source. Our morbidity per 100 000 inhabitants is the smallest in Europe, unless we count perhaps the Vatican, where (I saw last week) was zero, I think. But Latvia, precisely because of our decisions, our political ability to listen to experts and to react quickly and in a timely manner, is in the best situation. That is why every proposal that comes from the ministries, from the Commission, is very careful and will continue to be blessed, knowing that there will be questions for society. The Commission has given its partial support to this proposal at the moment, and it has been improved editorially in the next proposal, so I call on all the others to support this proposal as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U49	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U50	Hello, colleagues! I am only involved in this debate to say that Aldis Gobzems is speaking inaccurate data. I have the latest news from studies in Germany. We are already talking about the second Covid-19 wave in Europe, and Germany, for example, data from 25 September are quite worrying that infection is now spreading in two age groups: between 15 and 34 and between 35 and 59. They are groups of economically active people and a severe reduction is precisely between 60 and 79 years of age in Germany. I think that we will appreciate the work of our government and also the warnings of our inectologists and appreciate how sensitive Latvia, however, is to our human resources, that we are more careful and respect the prescriptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U51	Thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U52	I have the feeling that you, colleagues, live on Mars, not in Latvia. If we look at this: Latvia has the least economic support in this whole case, compared to Estonia, compared to Lithuania, we are always in the last place, let us not talk about the Swedish economy. What poverty in Latvia is because of all these things that you have come up with here! Let's talk about statistics. Look at the mortality rates! What second wave are you talking about if the first one was not at all? What wave? I'm sorry, we've died more of influenza, we've been drowned more, suicide has been committed by countless more people, by road traffic accidents... I will not talk about heart disease, I will not talk about cancer patients, I will not talk about those who have not received services. We've got... Yes, unfortunately, that happens in life. We have 10 or 20 people of very respected age dead... Most Latvian society does not live for such a long time. Men live up to 69 years of age, the average death rate is 80 years and how old. What wave are you talking about here at all? What farce are you doing? Look where our economy is moving! Where are our entrepreneurs... We have all the hotels in the clap, the restaurants in the clap, people lose their jobs, people don't have anything to eat for anymore. You're saying here now that you have saved people, that they have not died. You cannot die in Latvia because there are no people here! Everybody's leaving, business is moving away. Don't finally lie to all Latvian society! I understand that there is one part of society that may not be educated and is quite... I am sorry, who does not understand simply, but is a society that sees and understands very well that all this is farce and machination to steal the country of Latvia. And it has to be stopped once! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U53	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U54	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mrs. Dagmara Beitneres-Le Gallas! Colleagues! Well, that's it, I love statistics very much, I love numbers very much, this is my whole subject, and now something for me here, Mrs Dagmar, didn't come together. You mentioned that there are those two broad groups. And what you said, if I now... If I don't remember, you said that the first group is between 15 and 34, and the second group is between 35 and 74. If I'm wrong, you can fix me. So that's it, well... it happens that only 34 to 35 years of age don't get sick. Did I get it right? Something doesn't come together. And then the sick... Well, you said two groups: 15 to 34 and 35 to 74. What is it about statistics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U55	The name to Member Juris Rancan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U56	Okay. Thank you, colleagues, for this debate. Of course, this is important. I just wanted to say, Aldi, that's just not enough for us to be still sick here on this whole background. That is why we are working to prevent this second wave first, although we see that these rates of disease are undoubtedly growing (one day record was yesterday), and that is why we need to have the ability to react quickly and, consequently, at the legislative level, we are making changes. But something else I wanted to clarify. In advance, with my response to Mr Gobzem, I was wrong to say that I am calling for this proposal to be supported. It is partly supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal. I call, however, for it not to be supported at this point, but to support proposal 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U57	Thank you. I closed the debate. The Commission's view has already been expressed by Mr Rancan. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal by Minister of Defence Pabrika! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! For -6, for -63, for -11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U58	Thank you, colleagues. 5. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. This has been improved and I therefore call for its support. I will not present this again. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U59	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U60	Mr. Rancán, be so kind, present it. Mr Rancan, I will repeat - let me hear you. Be so kind and present yourself. I did not really know what is then the improved mechanism that you have improved precisely in that proposal by Mr Pabrik, Minister of Defence, - tell me. I don't understand anything yet. It's not enough for me to say that it's going to be... that everyone will now be very honest about public money and so on. I do not see that something would have changed in Latvia to change the habits of politicians. I don't know. Tell me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U61	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U62	I would also like to add that there is no substantive amendment in this version of the Commission - contrary to what the rapporteur tells us here, the Commission was also concerned and therefore very carefully won and amended everything, and the Minister's proposal has now been improved. Looking at the comparison of the texts, I noticed that the only thing that changed was that the minister was probably wrong, also referred to hygienic masks as protective agents, and its hygienic masks were respectively included in the Commission's version as protective products. If these are the amendments that now... If these amendments do significantly improve the situation in the country and prevent corruption in procurement, then I must say that Mr Rancán is quite naive. I join Mrs. Liepiņa's request to explain exactly what will be improved in this purchasing system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U63	Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U64	Colleagues! I agree that the rapporteur must explain his proposals... not their own proposals, but those put forward by the Commission. As specifically... Mrs Stepanenko, thank you, you have rightly noticed that the words for these hygienic masks were excluded, because they should be included in terminology with personal protective equipment. That was important. The Commission has so decided that it is important to clarify in order to avoid this inevitability. On the other hand, in response to your remarks on corruption, which you imagine for a little while... that we thought that this would prevent it - no, it wasn't meant! Regarding the prevention of corruption - I have already explained to you in advance that this mechanism has been entrusted to the State Audit Office, which will look at each procurement made without applying this law. Therefore, colleagues, if something else is not clear, I will, however, read this version. So the specific proposal of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption is as follows: Consequently, ‘the State Defence Military Objects and Procurement Centre shall carry out a centralised acquisition of personal protective equipment, medical devices and laboratory testing services for those goods without applying the Law on Public Procurement.’ Second. To put forward a third paragraph as follows: ‘The National Defence Military Objects and Procurement Centre shall ensure that the personal protective equipment and medical devices referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and the epidemiological security resources purchased during an emergency are provided to the supply coordinators.’ And the last one. Add the fourth subparagraph after the words ‘to the institutions included’, with the words ‘including through the supply coordinators’. So now you have the version read, the version is also available to you in writing. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U65	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U66	Mr Rancan, the word "fucking" must not be said, so I will say - a very bad presenter you are. Very bad. It is not a matter of giving a presentation. We know how to read. Also, those who read one book only. Yeah, because you can't read the book if you can't read it. Read what is written is not a problem at all. To explain and present it means to explain the human words how it's going to buy there and how no one will do it there, and so on. Well, so humane, just explain what you did. You don't have to be angry. You are angry now that you were asked to explain. No, it's normal. I have the right to ask you... But I don't ask for it. You should learn... in my own words, so that even the brake is clear... let the street be clear about what this story is about. That's how I didn't get it from you, I didn't hear it. Don't read it. Try again, you've got... Another option. You can apply for a second debate. Then you will be able to speak as rapporteur. Just try to tell me how. State control is not enough. We know very well, well, what's going on with the State... How many of us... Mr. Rancan, you probably have some statistics available, how many reports from the State Audit Office have been taken into account, how responsible they are... or something like that. How much is it? Well, I haven't heard of such scandals. Now he's always gonna just buy and buy, and he's gonna buy and he's gonna buy. The masks are out of it, I understand. Probably sent to Viņķelis somehow, Viņķelis will probably buy masks if Pabriks doesn't buy. No, of course, there must be some sort of distribution. Well, but for those presentation skills, Mr. Rancán... If you run such a responsible commission, please explain so that Liepaja, who reads only one book, after Mūrniece (It is not clear.) ... then it would be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U67	Thank you to Mrs. Liepiņa. I hope that you also read one book. The name to Member Juris Rancan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U68	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs. Liepiņa for her criticism. What I wanted to say very briefly, in a couple of seconds, that the presenter can already present what he wants, there will always be someone, in this case Linda Liepiņa, who will simply say, “I didn’t understand.” Sorry, for my part, I've done my job if you don't understand, well, I'm calling for maybe to be educated and so on. Accordingly, I also call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U69	I closed the debate. The rapporteur therefore expressed the opinion of the Commission. Mr Rancan, do you want to express once again the opinion of the Commission on proposal 5?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U70	Again. The Commission's view is... That is even the Commission's proposal, so there is nothing more to add. We invite you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U71	Thank you. Please, call! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal presented by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please, let's vote! No, 75, no, 10, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U72	Thank you, colleagues. Next - 6. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. This is the administrative responsibility for non-compliance with the obligation to include information in the personal monitoring system. The penalty is foreseen to be the same as for non-compliance with self-insulation rules, i.e. if a person arriving from abroad fails to fulfil this obligation and does not register in this system, he will be subject to an administrative penalty which is the same as for non-compliance with self-insulation rules.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U73	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U74	Colleagues! If we are talking about penalties, then penalties are very simple. How can it be that all those who have diplomatic passports do not have to be in isolation, they do not have to follow any distance, they do everything, but to the ordinary, apologies, the people, they have to sit in isolation? Is that not the case in our country: one is right for all? Are there any more specific people in our country protected by diplomatic passports from the virus? You travel regularly on political tourism trips, and you do not have to follow anything, but you will now adopt the current rules that will punish the ordinary person who has already been pushed on the roads. And that's why, in these circumstances, you must not punish people... because there is no epidemic or pandemic in Latvia... and never had... no day in our country's history. A hundred years ago, when Latvia was founded, there was a real epidemic in the territory of Latvia. And at that time, the Fathers of the Satversme were able and courageous to come together rather than to communicate remotely by telephone, telegraph or by any other possible means, they were really state patriots, they came together and decided together. In a hundred years, we have heads of state who fear their own people, who want to inmate him, who want to take away their business in fact and who tell us clearly and clearly that you, the people, are something lower, because we, the big bosses, the big leaders, can go where we want to, with our diplomatic passports, to observe what we want when we want. We want to follow the Constitution - we notice, we do not want - by referring to some page of the book that Mūrniece has read, and that's all. But there is one law in Latvia - one is true for all. All Latvians, including those with diplomatic passports, will now decide to impose fines on people. It is not enough for you to raise taxes immediately, it is not enough for you to destroy business, it is not enough for you to deprive people of the opportunity for good education... Are you talking about good education here? What do we have with the Minister for Education and Science? Emptyness, ma'am! You are talking about the fact that we have once again the current success story with the worst economic indicators that are possible. You are talking about a lot of money, but we have a deficit - already a billion or how much - in the budget. And at that time, you do not reduce the public sector, which is overexploded, but at that time you do not give up on your political journeys. And the ordinary man has to suffer because he can't buy an old car... because he has so much money that he will have to pay extra so he can buy an old car. And now you're going to put new penalties again. Why have you always dealt with the people of Latvia? Why don’t you allow people to get normal medical services? Of other diseases die more - countless times more! More people die in the day from other diseases than all this farce and afero... has died with the so-called Covid-19 in six months - read the statistics! - and not because you would have made wise decisions, but because there are so few people in Latvia. Walk in the streets that are empty because nobody lives here, well, almost nobody. There's still a little more. You will probably be the last to turn off that light at the airport. Stop humiliating the people of Latvia! Start helping them! We don't need any restrictions. We live here in a healthy, clean land because we don't have anything here, we don't have any industry, nothing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U75	I closed the debate. Is the commission to be explained or supplemented?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U76	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Ģürgen! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U78	Thank you, colleagues. 7. - the proposal of the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele on the entry into force of Section 6.2 of this Law on 15 October 2020. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U79	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Health, Viņķelis! Please, let's vote! For - 5, for -70, for -5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U80	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Sanda Girgen. Articles 1, 2, 4 and 5 of this Law shall enter into force on 12 October 2020. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal. I therefore call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U81	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The proposal from the Minister for the Interior, Ģürgen! Please, let's vote! On - 5, against - 66, refraining from - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U82	Thank you. 9. - the proposal of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption that the law enters into force on 12 October 2020. The Commission is supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U83	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U84	Thank you, colleagues. Consequently, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U85	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against - 3, it's not. The law is passed. Please enter a section on the procedure. Mr Gobzem wanted to speak about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U86	I don't know, I wasn't applying for a procedure. I'm so sorry if something...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U87	Thank you. You've been accused of being ignored. So Member Gobzem does not want to talk about the procedure. Ms Jūlija Stepanenko wishes to speak about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U88	Hello, fellow Members, again! Keep going, maybe... Hopefully, we are also completing our discussion today with Mrs Murniece. Again. The Bureau therefore took a decision on 28 September without any supporting documents which can be presented today at the Saeima. The Bureau has not adopted a decision, a reasoned decision on the meeting of 28 September, nor has it presented the decision to Members as a separate document containing the reasons and supporting documents in force on 28 September. Compared to the decision of the Saeima Bureau of June 10,... 57 applications were added to this decision, the restrictions on distance, which were then in force - thus up to 100 people in one room - and there were also recommendations of the SCPC, which were based on national restrictions on distance then in force. As we see now, despite the fact that there are separate cities in Latvia...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U89	Thank you. Please turn it off. The speaking time for the procedure is one minute. Again. I will not repeat the arguments put forward by the Bureau, which have been explained to Members this morning when starting work. The Bureau adopted a reasoned decision. Indeed, the agenda is very long today. Let's keep going. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U90	Hello, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission on 22 September, we worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act”. The aim of the draft law is to lay down rules on the simplification of the application of VAT in the field of e-commerce, to ensure an environment of fair competition at European Union level for all economic operators, irrespective of their country of establishment, by extending the scope of the special VAT regime in force and by introducing a new special VAT regime for consignments of goods from third countries or third territories. Globalisation and technological development have led to the rapid development and growth of e-commerce at the level of the European Union. In order to protect the revenue of the Member States and to create a level playing field for economic operators operating in the European Union and operators from third countries and third territories, as well as to reduce the administrative burden... special VAT arrangements. The first is a non-EU regime, or a special regime, for services provided by VAT payers who do not have an economic activity in the European Union. Second. Union regime or special arrangements for distance sales of goods within the European Union for supplies of goods by means of an electronic interface that facilitates such supply, and for services provided by VAT payers who carry out an economic activity in the European Union but not in the Member State of consumption. Third. Import arrangements or special arrangements for the distance selling of goods imported from third countries or third territories. Four. Import arrangements for VAT payers who present the goods to a customs office or special VAT arrangements for the declaration and payment of a consignment of goods imported from third countries or third territories. The Commission has examined and supported the draft law for first reading and... and ask for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U91	Thank you. The Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent. Let us vote for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” as urgent! Please get the result! For - 78, against - 3, abstaining - 3. Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U92	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U93	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax at first reading! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U94	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 8 October, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 15 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U95	Thank you. Time limit for the submission of proposals - 8 October of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 15 October of this year. We are on the agenda under the heading ‘Review of own-initiative proposals’. Draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 479 Latvian citizens “On the restriction of dismissed Members to stand for election””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications – Member Janīna Kursīte–Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U96	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On 12 June 2020, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 479 Latvian citizens “On the restriction of dismissed Members to stand as a candidate in elections”. On July 8th and September 16th, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima, when examining a collective application, heard Edvina Danovskis, a representative of the Legal Bureau, as well as Janis Plepa, the President's Adviser. These lawyers indicated that the initiative under consideration does not comply with the principle of democracy included in Article 1 of the Satversme, as well as with the human rights enshrined in Articles 9 and 101 of the Satversme to stand as candidates in elections. The Members of the Commission decided, after hearing the views expressed, not to support the progress of the collective application and reject the application. Consequently, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Rule 131.5 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission drew up a draft decision rejecting a collective application entitled ‘On the restriction of Members dismissed to stand as candidates’. Please support by voting in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U97	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U98	Dear President of the Saeima. Mrs. Pakules and colleagues! Well, I really don't understand, do I? If citizens, Latvian citizens want such an initiative to be looked at, we need to see it. Well, how else should our citizens give us the message that this is an important issue for them? Why do you have to “hook up”? Why can't we... Why could we not have such a qualitative debate in the Saeima on this, on other issues... Is that so? What is more, we could also discuss the fact that maybe this referendum threshold... We should put that tape down... strongly so that people can become more active in political processes in the country. Well, isn't that what we all want? I'm saying... I have heard many of you say that, yes, people need to get more involved in politics, in political parties. You have even allocated more funding to yourself. So I hope that you are active in driving around rural areas, all of you meet people every Saturday, Sunday, explain your decisions. Well, in this number, then you... What? Will you explain this decision too? Ten thousand... More than 10,000... 10 479 Latvian citizens submit a collective application to you “On the restriction of dismissed Members to stand for election”... Are you going to ignore the way forward? What is that? How do our constituents, those people who have placed you in the Saeima, where you are - how to tell them that their will may have changed? What should they do? No, well, the fact that they have to go to the event that Aldis Gobzems organises on 10 October is more than clear. There's no room for it. I'm still... I'm still... Not just have to go, I think I have to go out of the fields with heavy machinery, just so you finally jump something at all. Well... In what respect do you now reject this further development? I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U99	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U100	Yeah, colleagues. In my opinion, this issue has not been fully discussed in the sense that it is likely that its applicants wanted to directly restrict the candidacy of the Members who have been dismissed, the candidacy of the Members who have been made redundant, which would have led the Saeima to... has been fired. If we look at the issue of medical salaries, then I think it would probably be right that, if the Saeima were to be dissolved, those individual Members would finally receive some kind of responsibility for what they have done. And those specific Members who have voted in favour of medical salaries at the beginning, but who have then voted against many times, would certainly not be entitled to participate in the political process at all - at all! Therefore, as I repeat and perhaps continue the debate on this issue launched last week, I would really call on the authors of the initiative to modify this initiative, because we know that today, the majority of MEPs in the Saeima will reject it because it does not comply with the Constitution. The miracle is that yesterday in the Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission with similar arguments that the registration of same-sex couples does not comply with the Satversme, the initiative was rejected, and for understandable reasons - it does not comply with the Satversme. But the rejection of this initiative was a very, very serious reaction from certain political forces that, behold, this is how it is! The Constitution is bad and therefore needs to be amended. Here, however, we do not hear any objections to the fact that this initiative does not comply with the Constitution, so we do not support it. I believe that this initiative should be redrafted so that it is really, let us say, not the way it is at the moment, because it really is quite dubious. Let us say that the idea is, from the human rights point of view, I agree. But the Member... Finally, the responsibility of Members, of what they are doing, of how they are voting, of how they are cheating voters - this is something that we should discuss and continue to talk about for so many, for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U101	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U102	My speech will perhaps be a little different from that expected by the voters who have signed this proposal - restricting Members' ability to stand as candidates if they have been dismissed - and I will explain. I fully agree with Linda Liepiņš and believe that every citizens' initiative should be considered. This does not mean that all these initiatives must always be approved, but they must be considered, and that... and it is necessary to discuss what the Latvian Parliament does not do, by the way, often put in a drawer. That's the first chapter. Title Two: In essence, all those 10,000 people who have signed this particular initiative... I would like to appeal to you and I would like to legally explain to you some of the nuances that lead me personally to conclude that this initiative is foolish in nature. And it's really silly because everyone can become a member of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, even the last shoulder can become, and it's his right. The biggest machinator, the last shoulder, the wisest and the fairer - every person in Latvia can participate in the election process, and it would be even good if everyone took part in the election process. The solution is not to restrict Members' rights to stand as candidates, but to raise your level of education as voters. It is clear that it needs to be introduced in schools, and it is clear that it needs ministers of better education than Mrs Emptyness. The problem is that, if you don't like Members, then you first of all - what you haven't done to this day... You can dismiss Parliament today, you are not doing it, because you, one large part, are simply not technically trained. And that is the problem - your lack of awareness or lack of education. Latvia.lv can today release all 100 signatures, and they should be released. All these 100, including me, should be released for the reason that this Parliament, 13. Family, don't act for people. What should be done? Rather than providing such an initiative, we must demand a change in the electoral system so that we do not elect a cartel all the time - the same thing all the time, even those who are deleted (as Viņķelis to the last place) and who are re-entering. You can't enter the door, you can't enter the door, you can't enter the door, you can't walk inside the window, or you can't walk through the stack. And that will always be the case as long as there is such an electoral system. In such an electoral system, Pabrik will be able to promise that he will never leave the Unity, and in essence he has not already gone because of Development/About! there is already such a subsidiary of the Unity alone. In such a system you can promise “3 × 500” and may not be fulfilled. And you know why you can't do it? Because you, dear people, don't go to the streets. There, on October 10, you must finally start taking care of your country, learn to protect yourself. Legally, this problem that Members do not have responsibility for Latvian citizens can be solved simply. We must introduce a minority electoral system and a people's elected president, because then there is personal responsibility for each Member individually, because then each Member can be withdrawn individually, and then the President of Latvia will also act not in the interests of the coalition, but in the interests of the whole people, if he is elected by the people. And if a nation chooses whatever... God gives people to choose the best. But if the nation chooses not the best president - it will in any case be the will of the people, not the way it is now that 61 or 66 people vote for the president, and the Prime Minister has not started elections at all, and the ministers have deleted us. This does not happen in any democratic country! No developed, prosperous country. The state is not guided by people who have not objectively been given a national mandate, the majority of mandates. You have been stolen from democracy for this reason that the electoral system is wrong, not because Members can or cannot participate in the next parliamentary elections. Don't look again, dear pensioner, Aunt of Mirdza, please don't look at its sweet ads anymore, don't look at television broadcasts no longer where you're told by a power PR machine with Rajevski (which is not a political scientist, but a Viņķele's pianist) at the forefront of what we have a success story. Ask your children or grandchildren how poor we live in a poor country, start... start to value that question differently, talk to people around, don't believe what you're showing for a lot of money, which has also been bought from your pockets... received through the financing of their lots. You have been deprived of your pensions, made parties so that you, the Aunt of Mirdza, could wash your brain and tell us how well we are, what we have the success story that Covid-19 has - everything is just fantastic. Look at how the economy falls for us, look at the conditions in which people live, how... How many people have access to children’s education, health services. Look at your pensions at the end. That's the way we should do it if we want to defend the country... country start defending... Why Germany is a richer country, France is a richer country, Spain is a richer... and in that spirit... England? Because people have learned to go to the streets. People exist in themselves. You're now... You don't have to pay for it, you don't ask for anything. You don't need to support me personally either, but you have to show me power on October 10 at 6 p.m. at Rainis monument in Esplanade... You must show that you want to defend your country and that such government must stop. That's enough! You don't need it anymore! That's what's happening all over the world. In Germany, the streets go out, in England, in Spain, wherever the people want to show the power that they still have to respect certain rules of the game and respect the interests of the people. People do this. That's the only way, and if you think nothing will change... or something else, then I want to say to you - it's enough to suffer, dear friends, enough, my beloved Latvian nation, to suffer and regret that nothing will change us, that we have suffered a lot. We must finally have the strength and the courage, because we are powerful people in fact... Look, we're not even sick with that Covid-19. Well, if we're sick, there's no symptoms. It is just like without symptoms would be lung hot or runny nose without symptoms, or rotavirus without symptoms, or intelligence without symptoms - no matter. So we are not sick in the truth: these are all figures. We do not die because we have healthy people in general. We have fresh air because we have nature here that is not polluted because we don't have it here... more than we don't have in principle anymore. We no longer have a financial sector, we no longer have a transit sector, it has been destroyed. The factories, too, are how many we have! The only... The only big object we have is near Riga, where they store their ammonium nitrate, the same as Beirut exploded, just how many of them... 50 or more times. If we explode, then we are wiped out half of Riga. Therefore, dear friends, dear Latvian society, you don't have to believe me, you don't have to support me, but you have to learn to start taking care of yourself, start protecting yourself. Just as in sport, the Canadians know how to throw a goll in the last hundred seconds because they fight to the end, they don't think they have a stronger opponent, that they can't win that nothing will change - they fight to the last second. Just like a hundred years ago young guys, students with Voldemārs Ozola went ahead and fought in Cesis battles and Bermontiad to be Latvia. And they didn't think about what I would have, which political power would benefit from it, they fought for our country. At that time, it had to be done with weapons in your hands. Today, we have to come to Rainis at just six o'clock at night. Thousands of thousands. Show that you can at last do this. This is the way, and you do not have to deal with such proposals - a collective application by 10 479 Latvian citizens "On the restriction of redundant Members to stand for election". If you do not like them, just do not vote for them. Well, as it may be, you don't like Solvita Apple, but you put six thousand pluses on her. Are you so uneducated and you're driving to draw minuses to her, not knowing that it also gives her a number of positive points. If you draw a minus for her, you have voted for that party, too. Don't ever do that again. You too need to get an education. You too must be responsible. You cannot only put everything on Members. Members are only a mirror of the people. Only nations that allow themselves to be treated in a way that you have for many years allowed themselves to be treated. Don't let it go. More self-esteem! Wira Vike-Freiberga said we're strong and we're powerful. Now we show in life that we, the Latvian people, are strong and powerful! Not just singers and piers, but that we are strong and powerful that we can make the best business, we can make the best tax system, we can go on the streets and show the power that it is enough. That's enough for us, the whole society... ( I wanted to say a rude word, but I cannot do it during the Saeima sitting.) It's up to you. And that is why I am calling on those people who have signed up to such an application to withdraw it themselves and to offer a minority electoral system and a nation-elected president, and on 10 October they go on the streets regardless of political colours, regardless of professional orientation, regardless of religious orientation and regardless of all other orientations. All together - both Latvians, Russians, Ukrainians and Jews - to learn to be together and defend our divided country, to learn to compete, to learn to straighten the back and to end being servants once. Stop being a slave to the poor, oppressed nation to which... Only the largest gentlemen come and show us what we will have to do. We have to learn about our own country, we don't need big lords, because you already understand that those who currently manage Latvia are the only goal of getting someone... Well, in a good rock empire in Europe, a good rock for yourself. They're already tired here. Believe me, Karin is just waiting for it to go right where Dombrovskis is. Does that benefit Latvia? We need people in power who want to stay in Latvia. Who wants their children to live in Latvia, and not only wants to, but also forces their children to live in Latvia in principle. The children of our President do not want to live in Latvia. And that's not right. We need Heads of State who, not only in words but also in their works, show loyalty to our people and our authority, and for whom one law is one truth in all matters. Also for penalties, for distance or self-insulation, for anything. October 10 at the monument of Rainis in Esplanade - everyone there must be and straighten their back! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U103	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U104	Yes, you can see that Mr. Gobzem is going to go to Rainis. ( I don’t know if I could hear from the honourable Members!) ) So it is perfectly possible to feel how Mr. Gobzem is going to go to Rainis - the eloquence and so. All right, let's go, Aldi! Then I just wanted to add something else about what's going on here, and I think why... Why most will probably not support this decision today. Probably because, just like Mr Gobzem mentioned, there's two kunds that climbed back in the window when they were thrown out of the door... I'll remind you: one is Solvita Āboltiņa, whose kind of tears were also able to wash at Bondara's studio... to Dombur. ( Bondar no, Bondar has no studies yet, and he will soon be.) So at Domburs, he was able to wash at the studio, and then he went to Italy on a white horse. No, well, brilliantly at all, but well, it's normal Latvian politics, that's what happens. So is Viņķelis. The people said no to Viņķelis. What's Viņķelis? Hop, hop, hop! Well, not a Member, will be a Minister. Now the whole Covid-19 event is raging. For Latvia, an absolutely normal example, Mrs genius is indeed. In fact, this initiative should be supplemented - not only that they cannot re-elect those who have been thrown out, but they should also not be... Well, for... become ministers. Well, actually, if the people have shown you the way to the dung, then there should be... In that direction, too, should go, shouldn't... You shouldn't, let's say, get back on that power ladder. Finally. Well, two girls are. Well, great - great! - Examples. The nation will always wonder how it will happen again. Well, we got out of here, but come back. We took it, come again, come again and again. Well, then... Finally, I would not like you to be such a third example of your attitude, Mrs Mūrniece, but the way in which you are conducting the sitting today - quite nihilistic... by reference to Members' skills or skills... I didn't ask you if you can dance or sing, and I don't make you show anything, or let's say...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U105	Thank you. I remind the Saeima of a roll of order. — Dep. L. Liepiņa: “Yes, yes, remind me, remind me!” ) Article 72 (Dep. L. Liepiņa: “Yes, of course!” )... Let us continue the debate. Name to Member Aivars Gaidan. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “Yes!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U106	Dear colleagues, Well, the public has already heard about Alda's stems and snuff bottles, but let the public also know that Aldis Gobzems has donated 12 thousand euros to the party, not even in the long history - it was 2014. Then I have a question for Aldim: what has changed over the time? How have you suddenly become a public defender when you donate to an elite party? Is that you're not a double? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U107	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission to the draft decision in question?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U108	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I repeat (because the debate went on completely not on this, but on something else)... On behalf of the Commission, I remind you that this initiative does not comply with Articles 1, 9 and 101 of the Satversme, therefore the Commission rejected it. I call on you to vote in favour of this draft decision. We are voting in favour, so we are rejecting it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U109	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 479 Latvian citizens “On the restriction of dismissed Members to stand for election””! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, six, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Treatment of requests by Members Requests received by Members. Members Ivars Zariņš, Ivans Ribakovs, Vitalijs Orlovs, Jānis Krišāns, Edgars Kucins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Ivans Klementjevs, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Boriss Cilevičs and Nikolai Kabanovs have submitted a request to the Minister of Economics Janis Vitenbergs “On the Inability of the Minister of Economics to provide answers regarding the compliance of the Ministry of Economics with the benchmarks used in electricity market law (on benchmarks used in the calculation of OIC overcompensation)”. Name to motivate Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U110	Colleagues, as you remember, at the beginning of this year - 30 January - passed the law on Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market, which started its course in the previous Saeima, when all the political forces were ready to fight the OIC's atmosphere before the elections were hot. This draft law was therefore supported and the draft law supported certain principles that should have been incorporated into the OIC legal framework for a long time, namely that there must be real checks to ensure that the beneficiaries of OIC actually fulfil all the conditions for aid and are eligible for aid, that those who do not comply with the conditions for aid or for fraud have been deprived of the aid and that the aid unlawfully or unduly paid has to be recovered. But to them... For those to whom this aid is due, it must not be excessively generous but proportionate, taking into account the total amount of aid that has been put forward so far and a reasonable level of expenditure, rather than - as has been the case so far. In particular, by making it clear at the level of the law, it is not possible to continue to build this aerobatic cover by means of subordinate legislation, that is to say, the regulations drawn up by the Ministry of Economics. The elections passed, and the promises made by many politicians and the desire to fight against the OIC were also extinguished, and as a result almost none of what was originally provided for in this bill was retained. And this was done precisely thanks to the insistence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and its proposals, by which the draft law was literally cast out, so that it was not the law that laid down a clear framework that the Ministry of Economics must observe, but that the Ministry of Economics will again be the one that will draw up it at its own discretion and under its own rules. In this respect, the Commission notes that, in the absence of any comments from interested parties, it is not possible to assess whether the conditions of Article 107(1) of the Treaty are met. Throughout this time, it is under the heading of the Ministry of Economic Affairs that the beneficiaries of OIC have continued to receive excessive support - that is, there are several million we are paying. Even in September, contrary to the law, these new benchmarks and calculation methodologies have not yet been developed. OIC operators continue to receive oversubsidised aid. As I said, these are many, many millions, and it is the Ministry of Economics... Responsibilities of the Minister for Economic Affairs, already this Minister for Economic Affairs. With this request, we want to know whether it is simply the incompetentness and failure of the Ministry of Economics or whether it is a deliberate cover of the OIC. We hope to receive either a competent or a fair answer from the Minister for Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U111	Thank you. The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Members Ivars Zarins, Ivans Ribakovs, Ivans Klementjevs, Vitalijs Orlovs, Jānis Krišāns, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Edgars Kucins, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs and Nikolajs Kabanovs have submitted a request to the Minister of Economics Janis Vitenbergs “On the Inability of the Minister of Economics to provide answers regarding compliance of the Ministry of Economics with the rules laid down in the Electricity Market Law (on self-use of electricity)”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U112	So going on with the same story...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U113	Mr. Zarins! Once again, please press the system... log in to the system again so that a time report is made! Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U114	So, again. Continuing with this same story, one of the most widely exploited types of OIC fraud, which has been and is still being carried out to the extent of many, many million, which we all pay well, either because of the failure of the Ministry of Economic Affairs or because of incompetentness, or because of the deliberate closure of the OIC's area, is fraud with self-consumption of electricity. That's what it looks like. The electricity market law has long established the principle that an economic operator may only sell at an increased tariff the surplus that remains after he has "fattened" his own stations for consumption - the electricity that he has spent on his own consumption. Depending on the technology applied, this can be a very significant amount, accounting for several dozen percent of all electricity produced. However, thanks to the regulations developed by the Ministry of Economics and the monitoring model that it had for years, it was possible for economic operators to cheat with their own consumption, i.e. sell almost all their own electricity at the increased tariff, but buy for their own consumption the electricity they needed from the country... cheap. We had a long fight to get the Ministry of Economics to recognise it and start doing something. Unfortunately, however, what we now see is that the Ministry of Economics has once again drafted its own regulations after we have adopted the Law on the Electricity Market Act. By opening these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which were issued on 2 September, so at the time of this Minister, we see that such a case appears there - that the State Building Control Office, the institution that controls economic operators, receives a report from the operating station on the level of self-consumption... It has been said that a decision on the withdrawal of an authorisation (that it is an infringement) should only be taken if the amount of electricity produced corresponds to the quantity sold in the compulsory purchase. That means that a businessman is right to cheat with self-consumption, to sell almost everything completely... within the framework of a completely compulsory procurement, unless he... unless he sold everything. That's - if the consumption is not zero, then it's all right. What does that mean? This means, as I said, that means fraud in many millions. And we already had one request that was examined, where I showed by example that there is a station that has been cheating, that has been cheating for years, and that has also been cheating, where this fraud is making significant amounts and that all this is documented. But thanks to such regulations of the Ministry of Economics, all this will be included legally. The station continues to cheat, and it is covered by the Ministry of Economics. We very much hope that the Minister for Economics will have the courage to come here and justify... your request... and to be responsible for this action, why the Minister for Economic Affairs has done so and why he has once again prepared such rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2117-U115	Thank you. This request shall also be submitted to the Requesting Commission. The agenda of the sitting was examined. Time for registration. Registration of the presence of Members is under way. It's been a success. Dear colleagues, I informed you that the Bureau was going to convene a second extraordinary meeting today. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. So let's get back to work at 13:30. Thank you.
