ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to examine the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 22 October this year. On the agenda - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Labour Act’. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on Social and Labour Affairs “Amendments to the Labour Law” presented by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us begin to examine the draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U2	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has created the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”. The draft law is designed to ensure more effective protection of the rights of posted workers in accordance with the regulations contained in the legal norms of the European Union. The draft law is designed to improve the regulation of labour relations by taking over the Convention of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on the posting of workers in the field of the provision of services, and contains two essential sections: one which regulates the duties of an employer by sending an employee to perform work in Latvia, and the other, which determines the duties of an employer by sending an employee to perform work outside Latvia. Within the Commission, the draft law has been examined before the first reading... it has been examined and the major discussions have been about whether, when sending an employee to another Member State of the European Union or to a Member State of the European Economic Area, the employer pays a daily mission allowance of 30 per cent or more (likely to be the main discussion at the next meeting). That's why... Given that this is a directive that already enters into force, it is a request that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U3	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U4	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the time for the examination of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U6	One day - October 23, the end of the working day. And a request for consideration at the next Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U7	I'll ask if it's meant one week later, at the next Saeima sitting... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U8	At the Saeima sitting, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U9	At the next Saeima sitting, one week later?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U10	The next Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U11	Thank you. That would be 29 October. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 23 October this year by 5 p.m. And consideration at the Saeima meeting on 29 October this year. Thank you. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the approval of the Permanent Representative of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Ulda Budriks. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Permanent Representative of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Ulda Budrikis! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Eva Mārtāža to the Commission for Sustainable Development. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Eva Mārtuja to the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Linda Medne to the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Linda Medne to the Commission of Mandate, Ethics and Application! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. Members Ivars Zariņš, Arturs Rubiks, Vitalijs Orlovs, Ivans Klementjevs, Valerijs Agešins, Boriss Cilevičs, Edgars Kucins, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Nikolajs Kabanovs and Ivans Ribakovs have submitted a request to the Minister of Economics Janis Vitenbergs “On the development of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers required by the Law on the Electricity Market and their compliance with the law on the abolition of mandatory electricity procurement and recovery of aid”. The name of Member Ivars Zarins - motivation. Mr. Zarins, please apply also to the electronic system. You have signed up in writing. Name to Member Zarin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U12	Hello, colleagues! As you remember, at the beginning of this year, amendments were adopted to the Electricity Market Act, which provided for a new framework for the OIC system. They were presented to the public as a fight against the OIC. Unfortunately, many of the matters of principle, which were originally provided for in the law, were removed from the field according to the insistence of the Ministry of Economics, according to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which, of course, will be drafted by the Ministry of Economics. It is important to note that without appropriate regulations, these legislative amendments that we have adopted will not work or even, on the contrary, will serve as a new cover for the OIC. One of the legal cases for which the Ministry of Economic Affairs had to lay down rules was the recovery of unlawfully paid aid from economic operators who had unlawfully or unduly received that State aid, in other words fraud. Although the law was adopted at the beginning of this year, the rules were only adopted on 2 September. This provision could not be applied at all throughout this period. However, these rules reveal a number of specific cases, including the recovery of unlawful or unduly paid aid. It seems that the legal creativity with regard to OICa has reached a new level. And here I would like to draw my fellow Members from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy first of all to the recovery procedures introduced by these regulations. As you remember, when we were preparing and discussing amendments to the law, we all agreed that if an economic operator had frauded, failed to fulfil the conditions for aid, received aid unlawfully, such aid was to be recovered from him. Well, as if logical, indisputable principle: If you have received support illegally, then you have to return it. It turns out - when it concerns OIC, it can be interpreted and played by itself, as has been done by the Ministry of Economics in its own rules, in order to establish a procedure for the recovery of aid that only part of the aid received unlawfully has to be repaid, but that part - and that may be the largest part of the aid received unlawfully - does not have to be repaid. This is the order of things that the Ministry of Economics has set and legitimised with its own rules! The Ministry of Economy has answered the question of what legal basis it has been for the legislator to do so. Therefore, we have requested that the Ministry of Economic Affairs provide a more detailed explanation of this specific position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and of the recovery procedures for unlawful aid. Colleagues! This is just one of the specific features of these regulations developed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There'll be more. Has a new roof appeared to the OIC’s sphere? This will soon be clear. I say to everyone, follow me and think with you. Thank you. And let's wait for the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U13	Thank you. The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U14	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education” at second reading (No. 787/Lp13). No proposals have been received for the second reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-22-PT13-2126-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final, reading of the Law on Higher Education! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is therefore adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. There's also a record of Members. This has been a success. Thank you. I therefore closed my second remote sitting on 22 October this year. We will continue to discuss the agenda for the meeting of 24 September this year, 15 minutes later - 10.15 a.m. - So we're back in 15 minutes. Please all leave the system because a new agenda will be put in place.
