ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Saeima! Good morning, June 18, 2020, Saeima's remote emergency sitting! Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, Prime Minister. In accordance with Parliament's tradition, the President of Latvia will honor us with a speech at the closing session of the spring session. Name to President Egil Levit.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U2	Very honourable Members of the Saeima! Dear Members of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a hard work has come to an end, and it has also been going on for several months in exceptional circumstances. Covid-19 all of us have digitized and transformed. You too, honourable Members of the Saeima, as one of the first parliaments in Europe and in the world, have found the opportunity to work remotely by means of digital technologies, to continue working in these circumstances. There is no doubt that this solution is in line with the Constitution, although, of course, there was no article on this pandemic in 1922. The Constitution is a solid foundation for our country and its democratic state system, and it is also applicable in exceptional circumstances. In order to ensure this, on 23 March, I, together with the leaders of the four other constitutional organs at our first meeting, stressed the fundamental principles of the functioning of the constitutional organs of the country in an emergency situation. They state that, in an emergency situation, all state institutions, all state institutions and all officials must exercise their competences and carry out their work in such a way that their functions and tasks are carried out as far as possible within the framework of the common national objective. This includes, where circumstances require, remote work and work in an electronic environment. Colleagues! Latvia is suffering from the crisis. With all these crises that have hit us, it has always been more serious for us than for other countries. However, three decisive factors have to be thanked for the relatively easier impact of this crisis on Latvia. Firstly, governments' forward-looking policy, which did not give up either ignore or panic, but based on rational considerations, followed the recommendations of experts, not political opinion. Secondly, good cooperation between public administrations during the crisis, with a strong adaptation of decisions to the situation and societal needs, and a critical assessment of decisions taken initially. But above all this, our citizens, who complied with relatively moderate restrictions and thus helped to halt the spread of the virus. However, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Members of the Saeima for their effective work in deciding on draft laws relating to the emergency situation, thanking government ministers, representatives of public administration and local authorities, but thank you very much to our self-deserving workers of our health systems, all those who joined together and worked together, and cared for those who need support. Thank you to our civil society, which was able to organise itself and come to the aid of the State. This crisis was a test for our citizens, for our state institutions, for our democracy. And we can say that this test is honorable. Despite the sudden halting of the crisis, it at the same time called for dynamic and determined action. It showed that we were able to cooperate, act purposefully and dynamically in emergency situations. It would be extremely important not to lose this capacity in future activities as well. We need to work to build our country in the medium and long term better, more developed than it was before the crisis. And that is our common task – the task that is assigned to us by our people, which are imposed on us by the Constitution and which we impose on ourselves. Honourable Members! I would like to focus on some important areas which have so far been resolved by the Saeima or which have done serious work, as well as on the work that needs to be done urgently, including the tasks that I mentioned in the opening speech of the Saeima session last autumn. First of all, during this part-session, an administrative law on territorial reform was finally adopted. But I'll talk about it tomorrow. The intense debate that the Saeima has begun with the law on higher education shows that this reform is necessary and that it is so long overdue. Latvia, as a modern country and as our citizens, needs a competitive higher education at European level. During the reform debate, there has been a rather broad consensus that universities should be professionalised according to their typology and that they need a new governance model, with councils with both universities and the public in charge of the strategy. However, it is only part of the reform as a whole. And for my part, universities and science also need adequate funding to fulfil their tasks. The Covid-19 crisis clearly highlighted the shortcomings of the Latvian tax system. It highlighted the causes of inequalities and divisions in our societies, both in the shadow economy and in tax regimes, which, in a crisis situation, leave a significant part of the population without national social guarantees. Taxes are the price of the country we want to live in. The lessons learned from the crisis must be used in a targeted way to raise the value of our country, by also achieving an easy to administer tax system, which still needs to be introduced, and by emphasising zero tolerance to any tax fraud. It will lead Latvia towards a modern and solidarityable state. And, of course, for Latvia to be a highly developed, legal state, we also need to improve the quality of the rule of law. On the one hand, this order exists, but it needs to be improved and adapted and developed. On the other hand, it is not enough. We also need to be able to handle ourselves with skill. There's no room for formalism and resorism. Every right-holder must be so qualified that he is able to see the meaning and purpose of the law and then to rely on it in the application of the law. I am very pleased that Members pay particular attention to the issues of the rule of law in their work. I welcome the discussions about the role of the State Council in our legal system. It should be established during the term of office of this Saeima. It is important that the Saeima has continued its work on amendments to the law in order to prevent possibilities of permanently drawing court proceedings. We also expect new impulses from your recently approved Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. I hope that improving the quality of the rule of law and implementing reforms will be a criterion for the Saeima to be guided by the approval of the new Prosecutor General. Ladies and gentlemen! The recovery period of our economy has now begun. Our relatively good position is start-up capital, which must be used wisely. We are in a unique situation where, at a time of economic recession, we must not, as we have used it, pull belts, but rather invest strategically and quickly in the considerable funds that will now be available to us under the European Union's joint recovery plan. Latvia must prepare a plan to use these funds. But let us always keep in mind – we borrow at the expense of the future, so we need to invest these funds in the future. Investment is needed to bring the greatest added value, boost exports and competitiveness, attract investment, create better opportunities for global trade chains and niches and bring the greatest overall benefits. This calls on the political parties responsible for public policy to base themselves on strategic considerations, on the common interests of the country, on the utmost discipline in the debate on the use of these funds, and only to take care of them to build our societies and economies. This should be the only criterion to decide on the use of these funds. No pre-election bids or specific client interests in this discussion are significant. Honourable Members! The path that the Latvian economy will take under the Covid-19 crisis will depend on our far-sighted, purposeful and intelligent action, and dynamic action. The European Union has taken a course towards a green society. This means that Latvia must use its favourable starting position to take this green turn as one of the first Member States. This should be one of the main motives of our economic policy, and this should be taken into account when allocating the additional funds that we will now have. ‘ Zaļais’ course corresponds to Latvian culture and mentality. With the support of the European Union, it has winds in sails. It would be foolish not to use it. Colleagues! The emergency has shown our ability to cooperate and to act in a targeted way, but it has also allowed us to see more clearly those areas where this capacity is lacking. The crisis has also highlighted weaknesses in our country's structures and democracy. Our national governance focuses on classic sectors. We all know what our foreign policy, defence policy, financial policy and other policies are. And on a day-to-day basis, we are discussing what they should be. However, this classic model of government, which began in the 19th and 20th centuries, no longer covers the needs of a modern, fast - growing country. A much higher culture of cooperation in public administration is needed and the so-called horizontal policy must provide an institutional framework with political leadership. I will mention here only two areas of such political and structural failure. Firstly, it is an information space policy – it is much broader than media policy. Our life parallels in the real and virtual space. Social media play an increasingly important role, which contributes to the fragmentation of public space, or life in information bubbles, but information bubbles are an extremely good soil for disinformation and manipulation. At the same time, society has an existentially important democratic space for discourse, providing it with a high-quality exchange of ideas between homo-sapiens and not between trolls or bits. The information we use is our world vision, which in turn determines our actions as members of society. If we live in a sufficiently high-quality information environment, our decisions will be better quality. If, on the other hand, we live in a world of information, our decisions will be meaningless. The quality of the information space thus has a significant impact on the quality of the country. Latvia needs a targeted information space policy, which corresponds to the reality of the 21st century third decade and the role of information in society. It should cover both the media literacy of all age groups, the exclusion of hate speech and support for quality, and I emphasize – quality and only quality – media, as well as disinformation disclosure. Without my clear, comprehensive information space policy, and I stress – without a politically responsible official for such a policy, for which it would be the main task – not only democracy and security of Latvia, but also long-term development in general is under threat. A second area where consistent public policies are difficult to see is new technologies and digital policies. I deliberately say "technology policy" rather than "digital policy" alone. Technology policy includes innovation and technology, various technologies within the social framework. A modern state, a modern economy, a modern society will ask not what technology can do, but what technology needs to be able to do. This means that society needs to manage technology rather than technology needs to manage it. Of course, digital technology policy is also here. The Covid-19 crisis has proved that Latvia is capable of implementing digital solutions in both the public and private sectors. Our experts, in cooperation with the world’s largest technology companies, Google and Apple, have managed to create a unique Appi Covid, which allows us to fight the spread of the pandemic more effectively. At the same time, on the whole, we are lagging behind in several indicators of the development of this area, both from the Baltic neighbours and from other Member States of the European Union, especially e-commerce, without taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the European single digital market. Digital transformation does not mean naive digitisation of all areas of life without sense, but smart and critical, I stress – critical – the assessment of digital opportunities, taking into account all risks – not only technical, but also social. It also includes a careful data protection policy, aware that so-called big data, combined with artificial intelligence, are becoming a system of tracking and manipulation of people, which may ultimately threaten freedom and democracy. In order to translate these new technologies and digital opportunities into long-term benefits, Latvia needs a unified state policy and action, as well as – which is particularly important – a competent and operational body for implementing this policy. Today, the digital field of Latvia is fragmented, not bound by a unified vision and goals, and works. We are proud of a number of outstanding individual projects – really excellent but unsolved problems often disappear in interinstitutional seals. Technology has power when all of its gears work in the sazobium. Therefore, in view of the dynamic development of society, I call on the government and the Saeima to consider how the policies of importance to this country – both new technologies, digital and information space – will be coordinated in a unified and representative manner, and at the highest political level with a politically responsible official. Dear colleagues! The Saeima is the centre of our country's political life. It determines the Constitution, and that is the essence of our parliamentary democracy. The crisis has shown that our Parliament is capable of working effectively, without facing unexpected challenges. I wish you all to draw strength in the summer of Latvia, invite you to travel around the historical Latvian lands – Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme, Zemgale and Selija – and to return to an intense source of work again in the autumn. Let's work together for Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U3	I thank the President of Latvia for his inspiring words, for his praise, but most of all for his goals. Thank Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš for his work and for his cooperation! We wish you a successful job. Indeed – we will work together, but also happy Johns! Mr Prime Minister, John has already been encoded on your behalf. Happy John to you! Thank you. Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Dealing the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust’. The draft decision ‘On the appointment of Juris Stukans as Prosecutor General’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U4	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 16 June, the draft decision “On the appointment of Juris Stukans as Prosecutor General” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Juris Stukāns to be the Prosecutor General. This Decision shall enter into force on 12 July 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U5	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U6	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, dear colleagues! Development/About! He met with the candidate for the post of Prosecutor General Juris Stukāns, and in his conversation he created a convincing impression – both his open personality and the vision of what changes should be made in the prosecutor's office. ‘ Development/About!’ Members have appreciated the open competition for the first appointment of this important candidate. For the first time in the history of Latvia, there was open and even intense competition between several strong candidates. When assessing the procedure and the quality of the nominated candidates, it should be concluded that choosing the Council for the Judiciary as the main place of the competition was the right decision. Thank you to the Ministry of Justice for these changes. Not only the politicians of Latvia, but also a large part of society have had such a scandal about competitions for the highest positions. Well, it's such an eye-moulding. However, it must be concluded that the possibility to nominate candidates as well as apply themselves, to continue to make publicly available the visions of candidates for further development of the institution, as well as neutrally reliable and qualified, if you can say so, the selection board allows us to choose the best in the country. And this tradition should be continued – the procedure for selecting other senior officials, including the President of the Bank of Latvia, the Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission, should be clarified. As for Mr Stukan's candidacy, we have an essential understanding and knowledge of the sector and a vision of how to improve cooperation between prosecutors and investigators. This is very important for strengthening the pre-trial investigation. Juris Stukans has extensive experience in other branches of the judiciary, not in the prosecutor's office itself. However, in the work of the judge, he has had the opportunity to ascertain how prosecutors perform their duties, and this will allow him to look at the work of the prosecutor’s office from a different perspective. The rule of law, which the President of Latvia has just spoken about, goes hand in hand with a reduction in impunity. And as long as we can each participate in the rule of law of the country in our own way, we can only overcome impunity together with the work of the law enforcement authorities by adopting, respecting and monitoring laws. And there is a need for substantial improvement in this area in order to increase the confidence of citizens and investors in the Latvian state. These are not loud words, because our prosperity is directly linked to the fact that those who violate the law receive a fair and timely punishment. Some people are being put in positions of state, and we are building a country like that. And the votes of several previous Saeima voted lies and manipulation of these posts. They promised one thing, but they voted for the others. Did he do what he promised, but the public did not understand why this candidate would be better than others. The public has rightly asked what objectives and how good politicians have led these candidates and how they are working at all. This time we have avoided it and hope to continue with it – with clear goals and honest candidates. ‘ Development/About!’ considers that Juris Stukāns is both a personality and an experienced professional in the field is suitable for the post of Prosecutor General, and steps to support him and wish him success in his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U7	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U8	Hello, colleagues! We heard Mr Stukan yesterday in the political group and... his vision of the further development of the Prosecutor General's Office and, clearly, we all very much liked the answers given by Mr Stukan and his vision of how to strengthen the Prosecutor General's Office and how to work in the future, and that is clearly something on our part, and of course we all... on behalf of the Group, I can say that we want these ideas from Mr Stukan to be put into practice. And today we will also support Mr Stukan, mainly to enjoy such a full parliamentary mandate... maximum size... so that these ideas, which he is talking about at the moment, can also be put into practice. I think the evaluation procedure is new and, of course, Parliament... the final decision is taken by Parliament, but everything would be very good if those who had to participate in this evaluation procedure were involved in this evaluation procedure. Unfortunately, in this case one person was independent. The sadest thing is that this man was the one who represents the Saeima. And it is a very, very great dirt of the Saeima... The prestige of the Saeima. How can it be that the Saeima delegates a person illegally to the Council for the Judiciary. And, colleagues, you all know what I'm talking about. And that, in my opinion, is a very, very big minus for this whole order. Thank God, it has not affected the result, and we really have a candidate for the position of Prosecutor General with a clear vision and also a large majority of the Council for the Judiciary got the candidate. And for our part, we will support and really wish Mr Stucan to be strong, to be independent and to implement its matters, and to receive the maximum possible parliamentary support today so that these good things can really happen and that he feels that he has political support not only from the coalition but also from the opposition and from all... from the whole parliament. Thank you. And I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U9	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U10	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Mr. Stucan! I, too, voted in the Legal Commission for the approval of Mr Stukan as Prosecutor-General. However, there is one thing that I would like to say, which will prove or, on the contrary, will not prove the good aims of Mr Stukan in his position and ability to be a good prosecutor: will Mr Stukan remove Meroni from his status as custodian of property in one specific criminal proceedings, which had to be done long ago, given the danger to the Republic of Latvia, which has already been identified by the security services. That is why this work will be, I think, a business card for Mr Stuwan's ability to make changes to the Prosecutor General's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U11	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U12	Hello, colleagues! Dear President, Honourable Members! Mr. Stukan! During the thirty years the Latvian judicial system has only partially managed to get rid of the Soviet heritage. The judicial system, as we also saw after the publication of the KGB agency cards, has been saturated with former KGB agents. In the thirty years we have not been able to repair the unjust repression and murder of Latvian citizens, who are more than a thousand. The justice system, our judges and our prosecutors did not have the courage to punish judges and prosecutors who, in the recent past, engaged in shameful Kremlin propaganda cases, ordered propaganda cases. In the recent past, for example, in 1972 and 1973, a demonstration was held in Riga, where twenty-four cases of 21 police police officers were handled and nine executions were executed. As it now turned out, none of these convicted and also those shot were guilty of criminal offences. In 1997, Prosecutor General Skrastin proposed to investigate these cases. The investigation was carried out by Prosecutor Astra Leichenko and found an amazing fact that the accused not only had deceived themselves, but more than two dozen witnesses had given false testimony. This case was conducted by a prosecutor in Buse. Many judges who have not yet retired have participated there. I can call Bataragas. In the recent past, judge Krastins also gave lectures at the University of Latvia. There has been no courage to investigate these cases. The report of irregularities was put on the shelf, nothing further has been done. There is also money to investigate, for example, the Herbert Sugar case for 12 years, although we know that in many cases – both the Arja case in Hamburg and the KGB documents, where more than 200 people have been interrogated, which have participated in various repressions during the Second World War – there is no mention of Herbert Sugar participation. So the prosecutor's office is still working, or certain people are doing political orders there. The prosecutor's office has not, let us say, had enough courage to admit that in some way it is necessary to assess the activities of prosecutors who have participated in these political cases, and, according to the excellent Latvian historian, who has studied both the archives of the KGB and the activities of various war criminals in Latvia... He writes that the question is more than 24 faults or innocentness of the convicted when we talk about these cases in the 1970 ’ s. Here we talk about the capacity of the free Latvian judicial authorities and want to distance ourselves from the old regime, to Europeanize ourselves. We have not been able to denounce these collective accusations against the Legion of Latvia and the Latvian people, and, as he recommends, we should still determine the counction of all Latvian lawyers in the creation of this false cloud, if necessary, to judge, as well as to review and document all these cases of the people who have been falsely convicted. I would like to wish Mr Stukan that perhaps a new era will really begin in Latvia and the prosecutor's office will finally do what she has not been able to do for 30 years. I wish you good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U13	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin. Mr. Judine, we can't hear you! ( Pause) We can't hear it! ( Pause) Now we hear it. It's okay. Talk to me!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U14	Thank you. I'm sorry, something happens sometimes. Colleagues, on the question. According to colleagues, it was necessary to campaign for or against it. All the political groups had the opportunity to meet and ask Mr Stuwan, and the Unity also spoke, and we are pleased that we received clear answers and there was no question that was unanswered. That is why I will talk about another. I am pleased that we have amended the law laying down the procedure for selecting candidates for the post of Prosecutor-General. And I directly compare, as it was before, when the candidacy was single-handed and, in fact, the Saeima had to accept or have to reject. It was. But now we see that the Council for the Judiciary is involved, there was a discussion, several votes. That is very good. And I think that in other cases too, let us say, such a procedure or a similar procedure could be used. But talking about the Prosecutor General. It is clear that we are going to elect Mr Stukan today and he can already be congratulated. But I think we all understand that we expect a great deal from the new Prosecutor General. We hope that he will be fined, that the prosecutor's office will be much better, more efficient. And I would like to believe and think that Mr Stukan will succeed in creating a team that will help him in this work, because he is still a person who did not work with the Prosecutor General's Office. And even if you want to be good, it is very difficult for one person to change the system. I think colleagues who are going to work side by side, too, understand that the prosecutor's office has problems and problems need to be resolved. I wish the new Prosecutor-General every success, and I hope that the work will be very effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U15	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U16	Good morning, colleagues! Juris Stukāns, the candidate for the post of Prosecutor General, visited the SASKANIAS faction yesterday. We have been speaking long enough, and one of the main topics of the negotiations was improving the quality of pre-trial investigations and the role of the prosecutor's office in this process. We were all pleased that Mr. Stuwan told us how he had finished the Latvian Police Academy, told us his work experience and most importantly – he showed character and temperament. So that's the plan that... with which he shared exactly about improving the quality of pre-trial investigations, is... Looks hopeful precisely because of the nature of Mr. Stuwan. I hope that he will really implement his vision and do what he has promised. He has promised that in the future (and he promises to introduce this system in the near future) any prosecutor who supervises a specific criminal will start his working day with a visit to the police station. Mr Stuwan also told me about his vision of how to reduce the number of criminals currently in every row of investigators. It is no secret that the number of such criminals in individual districts is approaching 300. It is also very important that the Prosecutor-General mentioned that he was concerned about the conditions of work of prosecutors. We talked about how these working conditions could be improved. And it is a pleasure that the post of Prosecutor General will be occupied by a person who has both knowledge, work experience and character, as well as qualities that will make people working in the prosecutor's office feel the boss who will take care of them. We wish you well at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U17	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U18	Hello, colleagues! Good morning, colleagues! This draft decision is the result of a long-term process aimed at strengthening the rule of law in the country. It is very likely that we could not even vote in favour of Mr Stukan if the Saeima had not made a change of procedure before. The new procedure has ensured that this selection process is transparent, open. This new process has allowed one of the most respected and best candidates to be nominated, who obviously enjoys the full support of a majority of the Saeima Members, in the light of the previous debate. In this respect, I thank the group of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the members of the Saeima Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, as well as the Members of the Legal Commission, who have participated and helped to reach this draft decision, which we will immediately adopt. I wish Mr Stukan a firm spine, continuing to fight and maintain a high level of rule of law in the Republic of Latvia for the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U19	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Juris Stukans as Prosecutor General! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 92, against and abstaining from –. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Juris Stucans on the high position! We wish to work for Latvia. (Applause) Thank you. Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Members have not applied to speak about or against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” to the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There are no – 88, against and abstaining. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima shall propose that the member Plesa, Golubeva, Pavļuta, Blukes, Bondar, Dūrīšas, Ikstenas and other draft laws submitted by the Member “Amendments to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Valery Agešins. Mr Ageshin, are you going to talk about it or about it? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešin: ‘ Against!’ ) “ Against”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U20	Yeah, thank you. Dear colleagues, At present, only citizens of 18 years of age can go to the ballot box. In turn, the draft law-makers from the Development/Par! group wishes to ensure that the right to participate in municipal elections is extended to children from 16 years of age. I believe that, overall, this idea has more risks than benefits. I am not sure that this group of young people in the political struggle will be addressed in a sufficiently correct manner. There are also concerns about the psychological resilience of young people. Sixteen-year-olds could be more likely to give up unfounded promises and policy manipulations. Undoubtedly, every age stage has its own psychological characteristics, and all colleagues today have to understand that 16-year-olds go to school where they have to ask a teacher to go to work. It is therefore difficult for me to imagine that they could be entrusted with shaping the future of the state and local government now and now. I believe that this is certainly not the best way to promote the political activity of citizens. The involvement of young people in politics should rather be promoted through other methods, such as appropriate education and information on political developments and the work of the municipality. The debate on reducing age censorship in municipal elections is currently not valid, as Parliament should pay more attention to coping with the effects of the Covid-19 crisis and evaluate other, much more realistic, issues. I do not support the draft law, which would allow municipal elections to vote from the age of 16. Sixteen years – it's too early! I call for the 'no' referral to be put to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U21	“About” has applied to speak Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U22	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! In Latvia, young person is sufficiently mature for work, tax payment and even criminal responsibility in 16 years, but at the time when everyone goes to the ballot boxes, his ability to assume responsibility is missing. On 23 June 2011, 10 years ago, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution calling for an assessment of the possibility of granting electoral rights from 16 years of age in all the countries of the Council of Europe and in all elections. However, we in Latvia could take the first step – to allow young people to have a greater influence on political processes in their municipality. Such a decision to extend the voting rights has long been taken by Estonia, Austria, Switzerland, Malta, Scotland, Germany and many other countries. It is believed that young people at the age of 16 are not mature and will not be able to make a responsible decision. I would like to point out that research into the development of the teen brain does not indicate a certain age when the human brain has reached adulthood. This can even happen up to 22 years of age. Teenagers’ ability to make decisions in situations that allow them to rush and consult with others, which are called “high cognitive abilities”, will be the same as adults. Studies also show that young people aged 16 and 17 are more active in the first elections than 18-year-olds in the first elections. The aim of this proposal is not simply to increase the number of voters. The aim is to enable young people to participate in decision-making and to be aware of democratic principles. And if we're talking about statistics, it's about 35 thousand people – an additional voter in the electoral cycle (compared to 1.5 million, as is the case at present). Studies carried out in countries where young people have already been given the opportunity to influence their local governments and, in some cases, the country’s future, show that they vote as responsibly as older voters. I am fully convinced that our young people are also prepared to make balanced, careful and critical decisions about the future of their native communities. For many years there has been talk about the idea of allowing young people from 16 years of age to participate in municipal elections. Today, we have the opportunity to open a debate at parliamentary level. Today, there is no question of adopting a draft law at final reading. We also waited 20 years for the implementation of the deposit system before we finally accepted it in this parliamentary term. I call on you to vote in favour of the referral of the draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government and to open a debate at parliamentary level on this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U23	Thank you. Colleagues! One Member has spoken for, one against. Let's vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the Regional Council of the Republic to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government”, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! On – 24, against – 51, abstained – 9. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Dear colleagues, Member Ivars Zarins has applied to speak about the procedure. Please activate section "On procedure". So, Mr. Zarins, please apply. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U24	Good afternoon, everybody! Colleagues, I wanted to talk about the procedure for the following reasons:...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U25	Mr. Zarins, I'm sorry, I'll stop you. The procedure to talk about – one minute... What is happening to us in the parliamentary services? One minute – speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U26	I can also take one minute to make a deal. You can't put that time. The parliamentary roll states that a Member has the opportunity to apply for a debate in writing. I had made a written contribution to the debate on the next point. Unfortunately, when I looked at the parliamentary agenda here, I did not see that I had been put to this debate. I call on the Saeima Administration and the Saeima Bureau to pay further attention to this: if Members have applied in writing for a debate, they have applied in good time for the previous question (this has been done several days ago), then we need to follow this up and put the Member on the list for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U27	Thank you. Member Zarins had applied to speak about the referral of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions”. That's what I have at my disposal. (Laughter) Member Zariņš shouldn't worry, the name will be given. Indeed, let us ask the administration to arrange for it to be placed electronically. So the next item on the agenda is the bill "Amendments to Parliamentary Investigation Commissions' Law". The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Zarina, Kucina, Agešina, Pimenova and Ribakova be referred to the Legal Commission by means of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions’, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Member Ivars Zarins has signed up to speak for’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U28	Good afternoon again, everyone! Colleagues, you already know what makes democracy an effective instrument for public administration. And why does this not happen in Latvia? Why is Latvia unable to break the trap of this power? Why? In democracy, as in the market economy, competition is the main driver. Without full political competition, democracy becomes a fiction. Because if a change of power is not possible (but it is possible only on the basis of full political competition, otherwise only existing mutations of power are possible, as we are currently seeing), then the factor of political responsibility is not working. Both objective and purely subjective. For those in power don't even feel that I can be lost. The key is sticking to power rather than taking care of the promises made to society. And so, gradually or quickly, the power to fall into permissiveness, to dissipate and degrade. This has been happening in Latvia for many years. Thus, democracy is turning into a fiction. In Russian it has a very appropriate saying: “Golosuj, no golosuj, vsjo ravno plučiš one and the same.” In Latvian it would be: “Vote or not, you will still be disappointed.” Take a look at the success of democracy. They are successful from the point of view of public interest and state development rather than from the point of view of the power. Countries that have been able to ensure real and effective competition between power and opposition and the public's ability to follow it have thus achieved a sense of political responsibility on the part of those in power because they have the opportunity to lose power if their actions do not match their promises. We know very well that this is not the case in Latvia. In order to revitalise the principle of political responsibility to us, it is necessary to create preconditions, instruments for real competition between power and opposition. The foundations for this were already laid in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, providing for several such instruments. Later, however, the law, the roll of order of the Saeima, was designed to make these instruments almost entirely meaningless. The result is that we have what we have. Our political system is like a dead fish. Not swimming where it should be, but blowing from the head. And what is happening today is another proof of this. As you know, one of the instruments provided for in the Constitution is parliamentary investigation. In democratic countries it is a powerful and powerful tool, but we all know that this tool is not working in Latvia. And we know why. Because in Latvia this law was created so that parliamentary investigation commissions could be turned into a full profile. That's what it's doing. The law must therefore be changed. Last time we proposed introducing a simple principle into the law: if you have assumed the leadership of a commission, you also have to take responsibility for the outcome of the commission. And given that we are – at least after the Constitution! – a parliamentary state, the results and responsibilities of this work could be evaluated by the parliament. This proposal was rejected. What is inconceivable or acceptable?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course, you, colleagues from the coalition, did not like such a principle that you might have to account for your misunderstandings, for the pointlessly spent taxpayers' money. Because it's usually the case that you choose the head of the commission who will destroy the commission work, the task given by the Saeima, or simply will not be able to do it. That is why you were imagining a fool, that is, pretending that you do not understand the substance of the proposal so as to be able to reject it. This time, so that you do not have to be afraid of it, we propose in these amendments to provide that the duties of the head of the commission are to be assumed by any of those who initiated the establishment of such a commission. It would be logical that the opposition, which is usually the implementer of this investigation initiative, should also take responsibility for the outcome of this process; this would, in turn, allow the position of power not only to be the subject of this investigation but also to the evaluator of the opposition's work and would also make the opposition accountable for its work. The result – everyone would benefit from it. You, colleagues from the coalition, too. Both now that you are in power, it would help you to be more responsible and thus stay in power for longer, and later, when you are already in opposition, it would help to return to power by investigating what others have already done. Of course, this proposal can be improved, and that is why we are calling for it to be passed on to the Legal Commission so that it can start work on it. And to give the whole Latvian society today the hope that democracy in Latvia will never be just fiction, but that it will be a real working mechanism that works in the interests of Latvian society and not serve the welfare of the elite of power! You will be able to confirm this with your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! 31 for, 55 against, 1 for. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Please activate section "On procedure". One minute – speaking time. And please turn on the microphone for Ivars Zarins, who has applied to talk about the procedure again.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U30	Yeah, again on the procedure. You showed me the page I had applied for in writing. And I also had written to the debate... I was put to the debate when we tabled this proposal. Unfortunately, I did not have an opportunity to take part in the debate on the agenda. The opportunity to take part in the debate appeared only after I applied electronically. And just because I applied electronically, I was included in this list of debates. That is what I wanted to point out. So, by written application, Members are currently not on the list of voters, which is a violation of the parliamentary roll of order. I call for this to be avoided in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U31	Thank you. Member Zarins had applied, not for a debate, but for a speech... on the referral of the draft law to the Commission. This application was submitted in due time to the Speaker of the Saeima, who is chairing here... So the chair of the sitting. He was given time. All right, let's keep going. The system needs improvements, as is all in this life. We will continue to discuss the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Protection Zones Act”, third reading. Daniels Pavluts, Member of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U32	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” (No. 597/Lp13). Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” is designed to regulate administrative liability in the area of protection bands. The draft law establishes administrative offences and competence in administrative infringements proceedings for infringements for which currently administrative liability is determined by the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. Draft law... The law will enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Liability. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Eight proposals were received for a third reading of the draft law. 1. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It regulates exceptions when construction of new buildings and structures and extension of existing ones are prohibited in the coastal dune and beach. Exceptions are also provided for for road construction or reconstruction to ensure access to legally built residential buildings and there is no other possibility of access, or for the construction of external engineering networks for the purposes of existing or authorised construction. In the Commission, this proposal was supported, but already after it was decided by the Commission, a letter from Minister Jurs Pūce was received that he withdrew the proposal. Since the commission responsible did not have the opportunity to re-examine this issue before the parliamentary session, as required by the parliamentary roll of order, we still have to vote on the proposal today.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U33	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U34	Dear colleagues, With regard to this proposal, it has to be said that an in-depth discussion on the substance of this proposal was formed within the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission prior to the third reading of the draft law, before Juris Pūce had already informed that he wished to withdraw the proposal. There were doubts as to whether such a relatively conceptual nature, such an important proposal, would be considered and included at all before the third reading of the draft law. It was discussed that the consequences of such a proposal, or consistency, should be assessed and assessed in a number of readings. It should be said that concerns about whether such an issue should be decided and supported by such a proposal appeared already in the Commission. However, the proposal was finally supported. However, given that Minister Juris Pūce has referred to this proposal, as well as that in fact only the features of the procedure have prevented the Commission from re-examineing this issue and, in fact, prevent the vote on this proposal today, I would like to call on all colleagues, all Members of the Saeima, to consider this proposal to be substantially withdrawn and therefore to support the actual request by Minister Juris Pūce to vote against this proposal - proposal 1. I call on you to vote... on behalf of... ‘to’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U35	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U36	Colleagues! I call for this proposal not to be supported, and the reason is not only what has been said, but also purely fundamental. This draft law was drafted in general to carry out so-called decoding, but now, suddenly before the third reading, last reading, there is a proposal that is not at all in line with this draft law. A proposal that has no connection with the aim for which the draft law was intended at all. A proposal that would indeed be very serious to debate. A proposal that really falls within the competence of the VARM and for which the VARM should be competent. There is a question – why was it suddenly tried to scratch it at third reading? And only after the Legal Bureau of the Saeima started to object in principle to this practice and pointed out that this proposal is very serious in nature and should be discussed much more broadly, because there are many unconsidered aspects there – only then we have received such a step backwards from the VARAM. It shows that in fact... Perhaps one thing is what is written in this proposal, another thing is what was behind it, the aims that the drivers of this proposal wanted to achieve? That is why such a proposal should not really be supported today. And if such changes to the law are really necessary (we are talking about the dune area, what kind of construction can be done in the dune area), then there should be a serious, wide-ranging debate that would take place in all three readings. You cannot say that, at the last moment, try to envy such a change in the bill, which is at all about something else. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U37	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U38	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I would remind you that this proposal was supported by the Commission. Minister Juris Pūce has asked for this proposal to be withdrawn, but we still have to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – the proposal submitted by the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! No, no, no – 73, abstain – 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U40	Thank you, colleagues. Go to proposal 2. 2. – Legal Bureau proposal. It provides for the rewording of the second sentence of Paragraph 36, paragraph 6, of the draft law (which regulates activities prohibited in the coastal dune protection zone on the beach) by stating that ‘it is allowed to move around natural carriageways... only for the purpose of accessing residential buildings or tourist and recreational areas provided for in the local authority plan, if there is no other possibility of access’. The proposal was supported by the Commission. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U41	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 78, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U42	3. – a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. It provides for the addition of Article 66.9 of the draft law, which regulates... which constitutes a breach of the limits laid down in the protection bands around the constructions and devices of the melody. It provides that a fine shall be imposed on natural persons – from 14 to 400 fine units, and to legal persons – from 28 to 800 fine units. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard! Please, let's vote! On – 4, against – 66, abstained – 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U44	4. – a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Kaspars Gerhard. It provides for: ‘Declare Article 66.9 as Article 66.10 by clarifying the subsequent... numbering accordingly and express its first paragraph as follows: ‘(1) The administrative infringement proceedings concerning the infringements referred to in Article 66.4, Article 66.6 and Article 66.9 of this Law shall be carried out by the State Police or the municipal police until the administrative infringement proceedings have been completed. The administrative commission or sub-commission of a municipality shall deal with an administrative infringement case.” “ This proposal is not supported by the Commission. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U45	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. – the proposal of the Minister for Agriculture, Gerhard! Please, let's vote! On – 1, against – 69, abstained – 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U46	5. – Proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš. It provides for expressing the fourth paragraph of Section 66.9 of the Law, which regulates the administrative infringement proceedings concerning violations in operational protection zones, in a new version. This proposal is supported by the Commission. I invite you to vote (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. – The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Miezaiņš! Please, let's vote! 78, against – 1, refrains – not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U48	6. – Proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezaiņš. It provides for a new wording of Article 66.12 of the law, which regulates the administrative infringement proceedings concerning violations in safety bands, in a new version. This proposal is supported by the Commission. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. – The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Miezaiņš! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U50	7. – Legal Bureau proposal concerning the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U51	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U52	Colleagues (Sound defect.) ... Proposal No 8. It is a proposal from the Legal Bureau and it provides for the addition of the draft law, which is used to indicate the entry into force of the law: ‘The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication’. The proposal has been supported by the Commission. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U53	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U54	Colleagues! Thank you for your work. It has been decided in the Commission to direct the examination of draft laws at third reading in the Saeima sitting, so please vote and support it at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the Protection Zone Law" in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U56	Hello, colleagues! Having examined the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Commission of Economics, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy decided to support the said draft law and to direct its examination at the first reading of the Saeima. According to information provided by the Latvian Civil Engineering Union it is expected that, taking into account the regulation included in the transitional provisions of the Construction Law, the number of natural persons who will be entitled to carry out engineering research, construction management and construction supervision will decrease significantly in the period until 2021. This runs the risk of labour shortages in the construction sector. The draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” has been drafted by the Ministry of Economics. It is designed to address the lack of construction specialists, improve the regulation of the construction process and eliminate the identified uncertainties in the application of the Construction Law. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U57	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”! Please, let's vote! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U58	The deadline for submitting proposals is 29 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U59	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 29 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. Member Aivars Geidāns is on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U60	Madam President, Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission, before the second reading, we worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” (No. 389 Lp13). In the second reading, 27 proposals were received. 1. – editorial proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, related to proposal 23. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U61	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 76, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U62	2. – Legal commission proposal. This is linked to proposal No 8 and suggests adding Article 4.4 to the framework for checking the accuracy of data in other registers. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U63	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no one to - 82, not to and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U64	3. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which intends to extend the range of persons for whom data in the Register of Enterprises are updated. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U65	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no one to - 82, not to and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U66	4. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns that any change of legal facts take place automatically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U67	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 79, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U68	5. – editorial proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns! Please, let's vote! About – 81, against – no, refrains – 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U70	6. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. It provides for the addition of Article 4.4, fifth paragraph, with the indication by the person signing the application of the identifying information, the name and the personal identification number. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 79, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U72	7. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which intends to supplement Article 4.4 by legalising public documents issued abroad in accordance with the established procedure and adding a notarised translation into Latvian. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U73	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U74	8 / 8 – Legal commission proposal. Linked to proposal 2. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. – Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U76	9. – editorial proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The proposal is supported. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. But before registration, please turn on the microphone for Juris Juris Jušas – for notification.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U78	Hello, colleagues! I would like to inform the members of the Legal Commission that now, immediately after this sitting... on break... at 10.30 a.m., meeting with the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U79	Thank you. So, honourable colleagues, it's time for a break. Please, after registration... upon registration by Members, leave the system. Members' registration has been requested and is currently ongoing. It was a success. Please get out of the system! Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U80	Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the sitting after a break. On the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia””. Member Aivars Geidāns is on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U81	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Partially supported and included 11. – the Commission proposal. On behalf of the Commission, I call for a vote to be taken against or to abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U82	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! On – 1, against – 52, abstained – 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U83	11. – Legal commission proposal. This provides for the addition of Article 4.9 by the fact that the entries in the registers and other particulars in the registers are kept on a permanent basis, provided that other laws and regulations do not provide for a different retention period. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U84	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. – Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! It's not about – 70, it's against and it's abstaining. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U85	12. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Partially supported and included 13. – the Commission proposal. I call on you to vote against or to abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U86	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! On – 3, against – 57, abstained – 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U87	13. – a legal commission proposal to allow accredited journalists to request access to the non-public part of the registration file from the Register of Enterprises. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U88	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. – Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U89	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. It provides for the addition of a new Article 4.16 on ‘Special provisions on access to information for journalism’. The Commission has partially supported and included 15. – the Commission proposal. I call on you to vote against or to abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U90	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! On – 1, against – 61, abstained – 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U91	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – Legal commission proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U92	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. – Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 56, against – 16, abstained – 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U93	16. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U94	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 74, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U95	17. – editorial proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U96	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no – 71, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U97	18. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, which provides for the exclusion of the first and fourth sentences of the sixth paragraph of Article 7. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U98	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 72, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U99	19. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns, which provides for the exclusion of the third sentence of the eleventh paragraph of Article 7. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U100	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 74, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U101	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – a proposal by the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordāns to avoid burdening economic operators with a formal request after submitting a model signature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U102	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 73, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U103	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. This is necessary for the promotion of civil circulation, so that the Website of the Register of Enterprises can use the information available free of charge (to make sure of its business partners – whether to enter into civil relations). Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U104	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 78, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U105	22. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Provision is made for supplementing the law with a new chapter on the taking of a register of matrimonial property regimes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U106	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 76, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U107	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U108	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 74, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U109	24. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which has been withdrawn. A letter from the Ministry of Justice with a request has been received.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U110	Thank you. Therefore, proposal 24 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U111	Identically with proposal 25 – it has also been withdrawn due to a letter sent by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U112	Proposal No 25 — withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U113	26. – Legal commission proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U114	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. – Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 74, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U115	27. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which is about the registration of matrimonial property regimes... on the arrangements for entry into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U116	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 74, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U117	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for the vote on the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U118	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” at second reading! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 73, against and abstaining from –. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U119	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be five days, until 23 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U120	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 23 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Civil Service Law”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis. Mr. Budder, you can't hear! Mr. Budder, we can't hear you! Mr. Budrik, we didn't hear you! We still can't hear it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Budder: “Do you hear now?” ) Try another talk! We can't hear it, no. We can't hear you! ( Noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U121	Now (Technical problems.) ... Yeah, we looked at the commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U122	Mr. Budder, we can't hear you! Damages and noise are too high.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U123	Yeah. I'm sorry about technical problems. In the Commission, we examined the draft law "Amendments to the Civil Service Law" before the second reading. Two proposals were received. Both proposals are interrelated. They are from the Legal Office. I would remind you that these amendments are related to the extension of social guarantees of judges of the Constitutional Court. The Bureau of Laws has submitted these two proposals which, in substance, change only the fact that it excludes the possibility of duplication in this draft law. These proposals are also dealt with by the Legal Commission and the Legal Commission has no objections to these amendments. 1. – Legal Bureau proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U124	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no one to - 82, not to and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U125	2. – Legal Bureau proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 78, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U127	Thank you. All the proposals have been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U128	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Service” at second reading! Please, let's vote! There is no one to - 82, not to and refrain from -. The draft law was therefore approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U129	Five days – 23 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U130	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 23 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on popular voting, law-making and the European Citizens’ Initiative”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member Ritvars Jansons is on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U131	Hello! In accordance with Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, no proposals were submitted. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on People's Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U132	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law "Amendments to the law "On People's Vote, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens' Initiative" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U133	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission discussed this morning and prepared for second reading a draft law “Amendments to the Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law”. The Commission set up two Commission proposals in the light of the proposals made by the Central Electoral Commission, coordinated with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the administration of Citizenship and Migration Affairs. The proposal provides for clarification of the first paragraph of Article 1 of the draft law. The implementing rules of the rights mentioned in Section 14 (4) of the Voters’ Register and the application procedure are concerned. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U134	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 66, against – 14, abstaining – None. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U135	The proposal provides for a slight change in the working hours of the polling stations during the previous voting days, which is as follows: Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 2 p.m., Thursday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Friday from 12 a.m. to 2 p.m. The Commission supported its proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U136	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 64, against – 16, refrains – none. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U137	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U138	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! On – 64, against – 20, refrains – None. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings”, first reading. Member Ralph Nemiro on behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U139	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings” (No. Lp13). The draft law relates to the transposition of the directive. The requirements of the new Directive will provide for more detailed definitions, as well as appropriate testing of the conditioning systems and precise methodology for calculating energy efficiency. The Commission has supported the draft law. No proposals have been submitted. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U140	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 84, against and abstaining from –. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U141	Yes, colleagues, thank you for your support. The deadline for submitting proposals is 29 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U142	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 29 June this year. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Commercial Law’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U143	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Commercial Law” submitted by the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-Commission (No. 698/Lp13) and have decided to support it and to direct it to the Parliamentary sitting at first reading. The nature of the draft law is to provide for the possibility of granting the right to purchase shares in a capital company, also referred to as share options, to employees of new companies in capital companies of a limited liability company form. Such a possibility does not exist under existing law. The draft law also provides for a change in the rights to acquire shares by offering different categories of shares and by strengthening the rights to be attributed to the categories of shares. At the end of 2018, 30 start-ups submitted an open letter to the leaders of the Member States of the European Union, drawing attention to the advantages of this instrument, the share option, in the fight against the Silicon Valley in the USA for attracting talent in Europe. Statistics show that in United States companies, technical specialists own half more shares or share purchase rights, these stock options than they are in Europe. By introducing a competitive regulation on the right to purchase shares, Latvia can become an attractive investment destination for new companies. Moreover, experience from other Member States of the European Union shows that it is possible to establish such a balanced system. In this context, I thank Rainis Znotiņš and the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-Commission for the drafting and promotion of the bill. The draft law has been agreed with the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice and created in close cooperation with the Latvian Association of Young Enterprises. The proposed draft law would have a positive impact on the development of start-ups, which is a rapidly growing sector in Latvia, and would therefore have a positive impact on innovation and economic development in Latvia as a whole. In this respect, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U144	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U145	Hello, dear colleagues! I am very glad that this draft law is passed on – both these “Amendments to the Commercial Law” and related “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”. This is indeed a regulation that can make Latvia more internationally competitive, both in Europe and globally. Similarly, recently in early March, the European Commission has pointed out that it is precisely the existence or absence of such regulation that will have a significant impact on Europe's international competitiveness in the future. It must also be said that the various businesses that Mr Feldman has already mentioned... For example, Estonian start-up Bolt has attracted more than 100 million investments and employs employees in 40 countries. It has been possible to set up this type of company and leave this main parent company in Estonia directly thanks to a similar type of regulation that exists in Estonia. Our proposed regulation is perhaps the best in the region or across Europe... may be. The Members of the European Commission, with whom this issue has been discussed, have also welcomed this. I would also like to thank the industry for its involvement, so the start-up industry was very active, and the Ministry of Economics was very active, and the Ministry of Justice was grateful for its support. This is a joint project that, together with the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-Commission, we have successfully shifted so far. Thank you also to the members of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, who once again have demonstrated their ability to understand these things... On the contrary, perhaps the narrow direction of thinking expressed by the Ministry of Finance. So this is really important... major changes. Hopefully we're going to have three readings in the autumn... We will really be able to highlight our innovative business, high value added business, as a primary focus for the future development of the Latvian economy, together with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for Business Activities of New Enterprises” approved yesterday at second reading. Thank you all and I call for support at first reading and for the future.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U146	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U147	Hello! Thank you. There is one very important thing. Any legislative initiative should be both developing and preventing any possibility of manipulation, fraud or legal reduction of taxes. I draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, when examining this draft law, a negative opinion was received from the Ministry of Finance, which very carefully assessed the amendments in question and pointed out that the draft law on Amendments to the Commercial Law was most directly related to the amendments... with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax”. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance draws attention to the fact that the draft law significantly extends the application of personal income tax relief to share options. The proposal aims to change the criteria for the application of the share options relief by making the regulation of personal income tax options, not as a long-term, at least 36 months, employee involvement and motivation tool, but as a regular 12 month income cost instrument with a significantly lower tax burden. In view of the highly dubious reputation of Mr Feldman and perhaps also Mr Znotiņš, I would like to draw attention to the fact that very careful consideration should be given to this type of amendment, which could harm the taxable base, distort competition in the business environment and become an instrument for legal avoidance of the tax base. I draw attention to the fact that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have repeatedly pointed out that the Covid-19 crisis in Latvia has highlighted the problem of micro-enterprises in the tax regime. Accordingly, when evaluating this draft law, I can predict the same prognosis that this is a proposal to legally reduce the taxable base and thus also to distort competition in business, making and using it as an instrument for personal benefit rather than for promoting competitiveness and, consequently, for the development of the sector in question. I will therefore personally abstain from supporting this legislative initiative and ask the other colleagues too to take very careful note of all the proposals made in this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U148	The name to Member Rainis Znotiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U149	Colleagues! Unfortunately, it was an unpleasant surprise, but perhaps it did not surprise the demagogue of a former financial police officer, who seems to have been denied permission to the country's secret, on matters of reputation, so well, I think this really reasonable Members will not be serious. It should also be said that this abbreviation, in which these stock options can then be issued instead of 36 months, as previously planned, and 12 months, is in line with the regulation of both the United States and other large countries... Both in the United Kingdom, where one of the best regulations is applied and because of which many Latvian start-ups are moving... directly transfer their parent companies to the United Kingdom and to other jurisdictions, with the result that most of their taxes are paid there. This kind of regulation will help us to be more competitive, and we, as a small and flexible country, should be the most competitive in terms of regulation to attract these companies and, when they are tied, also keep them in Latvia, and here they would produce this added value, pay taxes and everything else. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U150	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U151	Yeah, thank you. Mr. Znotiņš has learned very well how to manipulate information and facts, but that does not give him glory. I note that at several sub-commissions on Information Technology and Innovative Entrepreneurship, Mr. Znotiņš brutally lobbying the interests of certain economic operators, which I applied to KNAB... the institution concerned, with a number of submissions. So I also took a very critical look at any initiative coming from Mr Znotiņš, which requires additional controls on the appropriate instruments that he offers as solutions... It seems to be improving competitiveness, but in fact legalising tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U152	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U153	In my opinion, Mr Znotiņš set out very well the content of the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U154	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Commercial Law! Please, let's vote! On – 76, against – 1, abstain – 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U155	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 29 June this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U156	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 29 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U157	We continue with the subject, and in this context, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” submitted by the Information Technology and Innovative Business Sub-Commission (No. 699/Lp13) and decided unanimously to support it and to direct it to the sitting of the Saeima at first reading. This draft law is linked to the draft law previously supported at first reading, which we have just seen. This draft law provides for changes to the law “On Personal Income Tax” and provides for the application of the existing tax exemption to the income from the acquisition of shares by public limited liability companies, including limited liability companies. It also aims to reduce the minimum holding period from 36 to 12 months, as is the case in other developed countries, given that start-ups are characterised by very rapid growth. The draft law also provides for a change of regulation on the necessity to exercise the right to purchase shares not later than on the last legal working day and to extend this period to six months after the termination of the employment legal relationship in order to provide employees with time to complete the necessary formalities or to provide the necessary funds in cases where the employment relationship had to be terminated within a short period of time. Given that new companies choose the form of activity of limited liability companies, for which changes are also foreseen, we have previously assumed that the proposed draft law would give more opportunities for new companies to develop, which in turn would have a beneficial effect on innovation and economic development... Therefore, the innovation environment and economic development in Latvia in general – on behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law, as in the previous, first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U158	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U159	Yeah, thank you. I will allow you to quote the letter signed by the Ministry of Finance to the Commission, which was signed by the Minister himself, Mr Reira. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, “the regulation proposed by the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” provides opportunities for implementation of tax optimisation schemes, which also pose a risk of significant reductions in labour taxes, so the proposed amendments would not be eligible for all limited liability companies and would not reduce the retention period from 36 months to 12 months”. Therefore, very, very careful treatment of such... such tax initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U160	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U161	Yeah, colleagues. Here my colleague Lubova Švecova mentioned some lobbying or such things. However, it should be remembered that Lubova Švecova is a member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) and she was present when seemingly these great and convincing, and the really honest employees of the Ministry of Finance – and specifically one of the employees of the Ministry of Finance – were very active at one of the meetings... For example, by representing the Ministry of Finance, the interests of gambling were lobbying. Well, then I hope that Lubova Schvecova has also written an application about this case, and that would be very important. It must also be said that this Ministry of Finance must end... Let us say, a way of thinking, in which all businessmen are considered thieves, the greatest Gentiles, and so on. If we want to develop our own country and we want taxes to be paid in that country, then that will certainly not be enough. There will have to be legislation... make amendments as this really makes our business environment more competitive and attractive also internationally, and make a change of thinking in this very famous Ministry of Finance, perhaps thinking a little bit about how they communicate and how they deal with such, say, those that support the business environment... The European Commission... by standard amendments to the law. So I am calling, colleagues, to support this too. In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, too, several members of the Commission... One of the members of the committee said that every time that a good initiative to improve the business environment in Latvia is brought to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, each time the Ministry of Finance is making a targeted effort to do so. So I call on you to support and change this thinking, both for the members of the Saeima themselves and perhaps for the broader... Ministry of Finance and public administration in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U162	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U163	Thank you, colleagues. I wanted to support my colleague, Reini Znotiņa, because I myself have participated, say, in the formation of these draft laws on start-ups, also on share options... with regard to the management of pension funds, in relation to... Also recently there was the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Special Economic Zone of Latgale” and so on. I really agree with my colleague, Rainis, about their Ministry of Finance's officials really often such destructive actions. This is also often seen in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's absolutely... It seems those officials are often so far away from real life, from business, they're there... One part has been sitting there for 15-20 years at the Ministry of Finance and is not going to change. Its thinking will not change there – most likely. This is a problem because the Ministry of Finance is the central Ministry for both financial sector issues and for example for start-ups, as well as for budgetary policy and so on. I know the official that Reinis talked about – Astra Kalani. I agree, there is a problem. And as long as we do not change, let us say, the attitude towards good initiatives in general, economic support, and so on, will be very difficult for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U164	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U165	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, again. What I wanted to add to what Ms Znotiņš said (and I can refer in the debate to what another Member said!) "I think that Mr. Znotiņš should start with himself, with his assistant and the husband of his party friend Zalīte-Gross, who was set up in the project "Your Class" respectively. That would be one thing. Second – remember all your votes against entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, against all those who have not been granted a soft pay in the votes. If we want a competitive country, Mr Znotiņš, then first you should start with yourself. You should, however, look at the fact that your slipping into positions that take place in the ministry that you manage, rid people of Latvia and they don't want to create companies here, they form in other countries and the like. That is why the moralisation that you have made here in this debate - it applies first and foremost to you yourself. As Parliamentary Secretary, it is possible for you to change it in the relevant Ministry – which concerns the placement of your assistants in posts and all other issues in which you voted against Latvian society. Start with it and then moralize others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U166	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U167	Colleagues, I will support the draft law at first reading, and my colleagues will do so. But I would like to touch here on the subject raised by previous speakers. So, the Ministry of Finance... I can't agree that... I cannot agree that there would be any wrong thinking in the Ministry of Finance. The issue is the ability of politicians to convince ministerial officials and justify their arguments, and obviously there is still a need to develop and understand their own arguments and not to blame officials. I also know those officials you are talking about, and I can say for my part that I have had the opposite views many times. It is also a question of the politicians' discussions, how we persuade these officials. They are not to blame for having a bad or wrong policy or some idea little... The lighthouses are ready, because every idea with political support will also have the support of the civil service. Every idea that is well prepared will also have the support of the official, and I would invite you to listen to what these officials say. This Minister of Finance, John Reira, also... This opinion, which is attached, can all be consulted. There's nothing wrong with it. It's all right with it. And the question is just how the drivers of these ideas have looked and listened... tried to understand these arguments. So that I call on the official not to criticise, but to think about his own political decisions, to justify them and defend them, and then everything will be fine. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U168	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U169	Unfortunately, I feel that Mr Znotiņš lacks emotional and intellectual intelligence. And when such a lack occurs, a person moves not to call the arguments and concrete arguments for legal or economic reasons, but to presenting the opponent's personality and his vision and interpretation of his facts in the public space. Reflecting on his statements, I would just like to say that demagogy, a patchwork of facts drawn out from context, the provision of information drawn from context in such important draft laws can cause very serious damage and indeed legalise criminal schemes in the area of tax avoidance. And I do not want the efforts of some young and very energetic demagogians to turn into a river for the legal implementation of the tax reduction scheme, using their position as a member of the Saeima and their ability to speak and fear some ideas publicly, representing the interests of a very narrow financial group. I would like to say that, in my opinion, the Ministry of Finance has very competent, responsible and highly balanced people who for years have ensured Latvia's financial transition to a stable, developed economy – which cannot be denied. And that's... to a large extent, thanks to their work, professionalism and intelligence that they are able to find optimal solutions in difficult and difficult political struggles that allow economic development, do not undermine the economy and also ensure the development of entrepreneurship. I think that cannot be denied. Currently, in Latvia, the Ministry of Finance works very proactively, professionally and efficiently in the context of the economic crisis. I therefore propose that the amendments currently proposed by Mr Znotiņš and Mr Feldman be very weighed down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U170	I closed the debate. Is something else to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U171	At the end of time, I could no longer trace what was being said from those three speakers, but in short, please support on behalf of the Commission at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U172	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For – 75, against – 2, abstain – 6. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U173	The deadline for submitting proposals is 29 June this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U174	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 29 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Public Transport Services Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U175	Let's start another topic. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Transport Services” (No. (687/Lp13) and has decided to support it for the first reading at the Saeima sitting. The draft law provides for changes to the Public Transport Services Law and its terminology. It provides for the determination of the amount of the services guaranteed by the State in the segment of the routes to be provided. It also provides for the possibility of establishing commercial routes, the right of the contracting authority to introduce free public transport services on regional routes, as well as the possibility for local authorities to participate in co-financing public transport services. The proposed law in essence encourages to make the public transport system more efficient, providing not only for the possibility of rational handling of state budget resources, but also for encouraging people to choose public transport instead of private transport, for example, allowing public transport to be used free of charge in sparsely populated areas, on routes with good train traffic, allowing bus traffic to operate on the basis of commercial principles, thus both saving the state budget resources and promoting the quality of services as a result of competition. In this context, on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U176	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U177	Hello, colleagues! Young Conservatives, starting work at the Ministry of Transport... started work on a new public transport concept planned for 2021. Our aim is to encourage people to move from private road transport to a competitive, convenient, safe, environmentally friendly, reliable and integrated public transport. And these are not just words. We are actually working to make every word mentioned come true. The basic concept of public transport is to place greater emphasis on rail transport and to provide high-quality public transport services, as well as the development of commercial or non-stated routes and the possibility to provide free public transport primarily on routes where demand is low because of the population. In 2022, the first new electric trains will be delivered to ensure the "rail – the backbone of the public transport system". A new call for tenders for the supply of diesel trains was launched, which is expected to be delivered by the end of 2023. The delivery of new trains will allow for the introduction of an interval schedule by increasing the number of flights on the routes concerned. By contrast, bus and coach transport will be divided into the state-granted network and commercial routes. Passenger benefits after the introduction of the new system will be high quality public transport services; average age of buses over 10 years – less than 5 years, 70 percent of buses will be adapted to the carriage of persons in wheelchairs; a third of buses – with bicycle holders; information about stops visual and tissue; 10 percent of buses – electric buses. Not only passengers, but also the state and the carriers. The main public benefits will be more efficient and operational route network planning. Less CO2 emissions – reduced environmental pollution, lower public budget expenditure, an equivalent distribution of risks between the country and the carrier. The carriers will, on the other hand, gain common standards and conditions for industry. Projected business environment for 10 years will improve as well as bus drivers' pay and working conditions. Without a government-granted... The route network will also include transportation without state grants, or so-called commercial routes, which are originally planned mainly in Pierīga on such routes as Riga–Sigulda, Riga–Jaunķemeri, Riga–Sloka, Riga–Olaine, Riga–Jelgava, Riga–Ogre, Riga–Salaspils, as well as Riga–Daugavpils. On these routes, carriers will have the right to provide services on a fixed-term basis, the costs and losses will be the carrier’s own risks and will not be compensated from the State budget. Ticket prices will be determined by the carrier itself. Criteria for quality of service will be defined. All buses will have to be adapted to persons with functional disabilities. On the other hand, the criteria for free public transport will have a population density of less than 4 inhabitants per square kilometre and the coverage of the public subsidy of more than 85 per cent, or the bus load on average less than 2.5 passengers. On this basis, I call on colleagues to support the draft law on Public Transport Services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U178	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U179	Colleagues, this is really a little bit of a question, and I'm going to try to tell you something. What the previous speaker, and also on behalf of the Commission, said... One is these good settings and good things – less emissions, better buses, free public transport and God knows what else... But by nature. If we remember the time when “Congregation” and “God to Serve Riga” came to power in Riga, this association of political parties, they also came with a beautiful idea for free public transport and introduced it, and there was such a thing as “Riga map” in this cover... ‘Rīdznieks karta’. And this "Rīdznieks Map" – I think there is no doubt to any of my colleagues about how successful it has been in "successful" (footsteps) and how profitable it has been for individual entrepreneurs. We know what has happened to some existing entrepreneurs over time... Now the guests of the new policies, the representatives of the new policies, the entire government... I'd say it's the responsibility of the entire government right now... I remember when I was working at the Ministry of Transport, we thought about how to break contracts with these public transport... carriers, had legal assessments... The fact that it is not possible to do so, and indeed it was (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U180	Mr. Valaiņš, we can't hear you! ( Pause) Mr. Valaiņš, we can't hear you! ( Internouncing call.) Mr. Valaiņš, we can't hear you! ( Technical problems.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U181	I see you... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U182	... then the communications have returned, which two minutes we didn't hear.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U183	All right. Yeah, well, I'll try... I'll try to get back from its most important place. Of course, the government policy that is now going on... reflected in the Ministry of Transport's procurement for new public transport by 2030, and I am asked whether it is really a new policy? As I said, I am myself... We really are every year when from the Ministry of Transport... and, after that, we have always looked very carefully at what these compensations are paid for. Even the regional level of municipal governance was reformed, so the planning regions were even removed from the task of organising public transport precisely because of these purchases. I believe that this was precisely because of these previous purchases, because it was very difficult, let us say so, to find ways to reduce the public budget expenditure that comes... which was about the public transport that went away... Well, not too high a reputation for existing entrepreneurs. I will not call these operators on behalf of them. We all know very well who they are and with whom they have entered the history of Latvia. And now... When it's here... I know a whole series of really honest entrepreneurs, as well as honest local government companies that pay absolutely all taxes and really work in good faith and serve as a model for regions as a region... regional enterprises; all of us, however, expected this procurement), which we see as a result of the procurement? We see beautiful themes about some emissions and some new policy. At the end of the day, we see half a billion... more than half a billion taxpayers' money will go out of a really highly dubious reputation for entrepreneurs... where there really are, in my opinion, very great doubts that there are not issues of the Procurement Monitoring Office, but questions of the Competition Council. I think these entrepreneurs are clear... In consultation with regional carriers, they have already addressed the Competition Council with an indication that it looks like a prohibited agreement that, quite simply, the old time is maneuvered by three to four people together and agreed how to split half a billion. Now our Minister of Transport is walking around and tells us that he can't do anything here. The Prime Minister is also wearing his hands. I think it's a premiere if you're ready for half a billion... Just because one transport minister can do nothing about emissions and free public transport in the regions. Colleagues! The whole Latvian society will pay for it, and it will not be half a billion! It's never... They were not in the contract last time, too... the amounts fixed. These were permanent compensations, the circumstances... All this will end with the financing of new buses for these entrepreneurs, which will be paid by the entire Latvian society. These operators have shown a tendency in the past – a desire to earn. We will see the Riga e-card all over Latvia, and what happens in Riga will happen all over Latvia. You can't do anything there. You're all going to pay for it! Colleagues, in my opinion, this is the greatest stupidity that is happening now on the part of the government, that this procurement is going on all the time. And we're still talking about some of the problems that we're going to have if we don't close it. The problems were at the time when Ainārs Šleser concluded these contracts, and then the next governments had to deal with them for 10 years – with the agreements they concluded. This has not yet been done, but we are already threatening that there will be some problems. The problems are obvious here, and it is clear here that some people have come here, agreed, but you, the representatives of the new policy, pretended not to see it. In my view, this is not acceptable. This draft law will, of course, not change it, the draft law should be supported, there is no one against the draft law... There are no objections, but the essence... cover, what happens behind this bill is unacceptable to me, colleagues. In the near future, we in the Group of the Greens/Earthers Union will be writing a request to Minister To Far Linkaith, and we will be addressing, if necessary, the Prime Minister in some way, in the near future. I do not rule out that this may also lead to a request for a commission by certain ministers. Colleagues! This is unacceptable to me. I see a series of really responsible municipal companies that... for which I have no doubt that they pay taxes, they have prepared these offers at a high level, but they are quite simply excluded. It is clear that it is simply the methods of old schemes that give the price, which I think, at the time when the contracts are to be concluded... It will take a couple of years, and there will be exceptional circumstances that will require you extra money on it, extra money on it, after... tires are needed there, they need them now and so on – as has been the case so far. I think nothing will change, colleagues. I call on you, however, to make some decision and somehow to depart from these procurements, to make a new procurement and... find normal entrepreneurs with a normal reputation where there is no doubt. Currently, I think no one has questions here about how “Riga map” was beneficial for all Latvian citizens, all Riga residents. You now offer to introduce “Riga map” all over Latvia. Colleagues! It's not normal! It's not normal. I call for support for this draft law, but think carefully about what the government is doing under the cover of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U184	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U185	Hello, colleagues! I will return to this particular draft law. I want to draw attention to these... the idea of returning commercial routes could be said to have been conditionally free in a market that is not actually free at all. I have also heard in the discussion the text that the price will be set by the service providers themselves, which, in my opinion, poses a risk that we can reach very high quality but disproportionately expensive services in relatively densely populated areas, where these routes can generate profits, because the entrepreneurs will ensure quality and the price will be determined by themselves. Moreover, I read that the proposal provides for the right to provide this service to be granted to the best on the basis of criteria. If the rating coincides (it is very, very unlikely that it will be exactly the same), then several could also be attributed. Or it's not agreed. Or maybe there will be a division of flights, not of routes, but of flights separately. But this or this is very risky – to give this pricing policy in the fully private hands, which could lead to a very expensive service for citizens. With this separate distribution of commercial routes without pricing conditions on the part of the State, we are deprived of the possibility for the State to make its own income, in those areas where routes currently generate profit and profits, that is to say, in densely populated areas and in Priežia, and with this funding to re-allocate areas with a low population density and routes entail real and significant losses. In my opinion, this is still to be considered and clarified. I call, of course, for support to be given to the draft law, but there is still much work to be done to prevent and assess these risks, not only in terms of quality, but also in terms of price, which are truly the country's most advantageous and guaranteed service for its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U186	Name to Member Janis Butan for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U187	In response to previous speakers, I can say that Viktors Valainis spoke more about other related issues than amendments and essence of the law and accurately reflected the current situation. And so he is well aware of all the opportunities for how public budgets are wasted. With the new system, this option will no longer exist. That's one. Second. In response to the legitimate doubts put forward by Ilze Indricson, I can say that commercial routes will be located in places... only where rail traffic will be available as an alternative. Therefore, the trains which the State will still continue to give will be available at a reasonable price to be determined by the State itself, which will determine the price for these trains. As an alternative, if people don't want to drive... to travel along the train, they will be able to choose the bus commercial... based on principles of a commercial nature. There has been a mistake that we have also noticed and we will be tabling a proposal in second reading to correct the article in question, so that it is clear that all economic operators who have a wish to not be based solely on a specific criterion can take part in commercial routes and, as a result, there is no sudden case that only one carrier can travel on one route. So we will prevent their error by submitting appropriate proposals, allowing the largest possible, wider range of routes on commercial terms, promoting competition and thus putting pressure on both quality and price reduction. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law and to address either me or the Ministry of Transport and to submit proposals for the second reading if there are any improvements that the draft law may bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U188	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U189	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I am listening to Mr Bhutan's debate. I have that... A rather harsh hearing of how suddenly the UKP has come up with a new road transport system, despite the fact that the system had to come up... Entry into force is likely to come into force in 2021, during which time it was also foreseen. The only difference is that when Linkait took office, when he was the previous Secretary of State, he was asked to review this whole vision, because apparently it did not correspond to any interests or interests of political power. We see the result, where we fought for the absence of monopolies, just like in Riga, where we had a dispute about 600 million in terms of waste management, then here in the KPK it all seems quite normal, but needs to be completely corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, we will also probably put forward proposals in the draft law so that this competition is really clear enough - not as it is at the moment - so that it can, however, be ensured in all regions, in all municipalities, in the same way for all citizens. As for Mr. Butane's offer – to address him, and he will advise him – I would ask my dear colleagues not to do this, however, because a person still needs to learn enough to understand what it means to road transport, what it means to road transport, so that he can also help the transport sector in some way, which, unfortunately, is what he is experiencing... not those best times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U190	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U191	There is absolutely nothing to add on behalf of the Commission, so I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U192	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Public Transport Services. Please, let's vote! For – 84, against – no, abstain – 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U193	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 2 July of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U194	Thank you. Proposals deadline: 2 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Houses”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Regina Ločmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U195	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 684/Lp13) and decided to support and direct the session of the Saeima at first reading. This draft law is designed to promote the energy efficiency of residential houses, as well as to prevent technical inaccuracy in the law on the administration of residential houses. I would remind you that this draft law will be read together with the amendments to the other two laws, namely the draft law on the Energy Performance of Buildings Act, which we have just supported at first reading, and the draft law on the Housing Property Act, which is on the agenda for us. I will point to what is being changed. Some... Some amendments are of a technical nature, i.e. Article 8 changes the word "energy passport" to the word "building energy certificate or temporary building energy certificate and its annexes". Issues about which regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will have to be developed regarding mandatory management activities in residential homes, reducing it to two points, namely sanitary maintenance of residential houses and... monitoring, maintenance and repair of the equipment and communications contained therein. But the most important thing will be the norm, which says that house owners or apartment owners will necessarily have to pay for energy efficiency, and not for minimum requirements, but for real improvement. I am going to have a debate on this, but I am asking the Saeima, on behalf of the Commission, to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Plies, Paviluts, Steel, Voika and Baumane ask for the Saeima to continue the sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Members have not applied to speak about or against. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of continuing the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please, let's vote! On – 82, against – no, refrains – 1. So let's continue the sitting without interruption. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U197	Looking at this draft law at the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, I have already pointed out that I will definitely tell you why and what the risk in this draft law is for, I will not be afraid to say hundreds of thousands of Latvians, because it will affect absolutely all apartment owners not only in Riga or in cities, as some Members from some parties think. It will affect absolutely all homes, where there is more than one apartment. And it will also apply to newly created municipalities, to rural areas and so on. What is the risk? This draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, referring to one of the European Union directives. In particular, on energy efficiency measures. And as if one... in one... One minor amendment, replacing the one sentence in the second paragraph of Article 6 of the law, that mandatory management activities in residential homes are not minimum requirements for the energy efficiency of residential homes, but the provision of measures to improve the energy efficiency of residential homes. So we are changing and laying down not minimum requirements, but the fact that the owners of apartments will be obliged to pay for improving energy efficiency. Annotated by the law, it is possible for the owners and municipalities of state residential houses and residential premises to increase the cost of managing residential houses due to the implementation of additional energy efficiency measures of residential houses planned in the draft law. Costs cannot be calculated precisely, as they depend on the energy efficiency improvement measures required for each specific dwelling. It follows that the Ministry of Economics is currently unable to calculate the effect on the state budget, on the municipal budgets, as it will be after the adoption of this law. And most importantly, how much will be paid from each citizen's purse for the amendment that we will introduce when we adopt this draft law at final reading. Therefore, I would ask you to be very careful about this draft law, absolutely all Members to read it carefully, despite the fact that housing issues in this House are not quite popular for unknown reasons. For the people will certainly ask you questions, as you could have voted for something that increases their costs in the management of the dwellings. And I'll ask you... Let us await your proposals for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U198	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U199	Indeed, this draft law incorporates a number of risks here. The first risk is that there are no energy efficiency criteria in residential homes. Here the standard lays down not the situation on the ground, but sets out the requirements that, on the one hand, the European Union puts in its regulations and directives, on the other, unfortunately, our often increased commitments or anti-plans when we want to show that we are more industrious and more efficient. That's the point one. Two points. This type of change in the list of mandatory services must be considered (and this is the task of the Ministry of Economics) as a mechanism for implementing this case, since this process consists of at least two parts. I am not talking about funding, about design, but it is about energy audits – which and how and, secondly, about projects to achieve optimal results with certain guarantees. Today there are no such standards, there is no control system in substance, and therefore there is a risk that, when investing in apartments, the owners of apartments risk that the results achieved will not meet the requirements that the Ministry of Economics wants to put in this bill. To sum up: it is extremely important to understand – and here is primarily the task of the Ministry of Economics – that this problem is important for the whole country. This is the most important social problem that we have unfortunately not yet learned from old standards... I am not talking about new policies or other reforms. The draft law should be supported, albeit for the purpose of developing a discussion on efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U200	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U201	Thank you. I would not agree with Member Regina Ločmel-Lunova that there is no interest in this Saeima, let us say, about housing issues. No, no. If we look at this, yesterday, I know that a rental law was passed at the Public Administration and Municipal Commission for the second reading. I hope we're in that summer... We will finish at third reading at the beginning of September. Large amendments to the Construction Law will soon come to the Saeima, which will also partially arrange this sector. I would also like to emphasise that the OECD yesterday published a very large report on housing policy in Latvia. Even perhaps, perhaps, its absence throughout these years, because I agree that the Ministry of Economics has absolutely not been a priority for a long time. And this is a problem, because most of Latvia's society lives in old, inadequate housing. Over the next 10 to 15 years, we have to make huge, enormous investments to correct this, including energy efficiency, because we have the majority of housing that is not energy efficient. The government is also doing the right thing in this regard. We see that there is now an additional 35 million for the energy efficiency programme of apartment houses, as well as one new programme for the energy efficiency of private houses will soon be launched, for the construction of rental houses in the autumn there could be a new Altum programme, so I would say that this Saeima and this government have taken this issue very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U202	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U203	Looking back to Gats Eglitis' speech, thank you for your compliment. Indeed, the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government concluded yesterday to review the law on rent at second reading, where I also participated in all activities and discussed with all interested parties. That's the first. Second. Thank you for reminding you about the OECD report on access to housing in Latvia. I took part in all the discussions in the OECD delegation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and met with experts and researchers. I am pleased that these conclusions will indeed help to establish an effective public policy on access to housing. I hope that this will happen. As regards the rental law, there is one problem that will depend on the fulfilment of government promises, because yesterday both the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance promised that, with the adoption of the rental law in the budget for 2021, money will be provided for compensation for tenants of denationalised houses. I very much hope that this promise will be fulfilled, as it will also depend on the further public process with support for housing, including the further promotion of rental law. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Economics is really working very closely now on housing policy and is also listening to social issues affecting the implementation of this policy. Everything we are asking for in connection with this law – listen to what I and Sergejs Dolgopolovs said about the risks to each Latvian citizen's purse, paying for the utilities and home maintenance. For my part I can say that I would be in favour of this law being a rule first of all that every house must have an actual energy efficiency audit, i.e. an audit. And it is imperative to have MK rules with energy efficiency standards for every home, say, history, model and so on. Perhaps also in terms of where its house is located – in a region. I don't know, but they have to be criteria. You can't vote for a cat in a bag, for something that is incomprehensible and clear. Here again, the rules of the MK must be in the same package as the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U204	The name to Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U205	Dear Chairman of the Saeima, colleagues. It is fair to say that the real housing policy in the Ministry of Economics has not been established for a long time, it is for years, for decades, I will say. If we look at the volume of construction, only four percent of the new buildings were built after 1991. I fully join in what Mrs Ločmele-Lunova just said at the Ministry of Economics now has a housing policy. It has been pointed out by the State Audit Office that in fact such housing policy must always be linked to financing. Yes, it is true that we have high ambitions for energy efficiency in the national climate and energy plan. In this case, there is a need to monitor the funding and allocate appropriate resources to the heating programme of apartment buildings. There is no doubt that housing policy, as I said before, is about financing, and that cannot be taken away. If once we write in the programming documents that we have to achieve our goals, then hopefully the Ministry of Finance will listen to this aspect too, because to point out policy making, but then not add funds – that is actually pointless. Since the actual energy efficiency of housing policy and the construction of new apartment houses in a complex with the regulation of the rental law is a factor that could be determined... develop our housing policy and build more apartments, really restore the housing stock, which is currently in a rather sad situation, especially if we look at the districts. But in the future, I think we will certainly pay attention to this, so I do not agree with Mr Eglitis in this case, who says that nothing is actually being done at the moment. It is not true, I see that the Ministry of Economics is working very well at the moment, it is an active process, and I hope that in fact all parties will be involved. And at a time when we are already going to look at the package at the Saeima, we will certainly support it, because we certainly need to develop this process. I wish the Ministry of Economic Affairs well, and I see that the work is ongoing and has been successfully launched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U206	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U207	Colleagues, speaking on this issue, cannot get involved in this debate. Of course, this law, well, that's the footsteps... It is unlikely that this law alone will change, and it is unlikely that by the adoption of this law something will improve substantially to such a greater extent. If we look at this time, the main drivers of reform are local governments and municipal capital companies, which are truly engaged in the reform of the residential foundation by renovating it, and renovating residential homes everywhere except Riga. I can mention cities – Liepaja, Valmiera, Limbaži... And that's how I can continue. In regions where these housing renovation programmes work very well, but all as one... not just the support of the Funds, and here I emphasise the support of the Funds... Not only the support from the funds, but also the forms of support provided by the municipalities themselves and the various motivations for municipal companies are something that helps to achieve these good results. But if you're talking about Riga, it's a much broader question and there must be an even more... It's even more so. And the very high involvement of the municipality, without it nothing will change there. If we look at housing policy as such, I have already said and still believe, and with each... including the report presented by the OECD yesterday and the solutions proposed, this already makes it clear that housing policy is no longer there and has been no longer there for some time. It was, in fact, a strategic mistake at the beginning that housing policy was included as an economic issue under the Ministry of Economics. It should be an issue on the agenda of the Ministry of Welfare, and should be seen as a social problem in Latvia. Of course, one of the main things for successful development and better handling of this issue must also be seen... are indeed amendments not only to Latvian laws, but also to the Treaty of Accession of Latvia to the European Union, because there are no references made there, as are other countries. It is really a high-level issue that I hope the OECD report will help to understand where the problem is, and hopefully there will be some change and the Ministry of Economics will drive it forward. But the most correct thing, of course, would be to move this issue to the Ministry of Welfare to change this policy as a social policy, because to say that citizens will manage themselves – it has not been proven for a long time. We can walk to anyone... By 1990, the house built, I think, with a wheel on a five-minute drive, we can get there and we can see what it means that people are over. Because... This house is just... There is a need to take greater responsibility for the public sector in dealing with these issues. I would like to say that, unfortunately, there are various things going on in the Saeima at the moment, but, in fact, nothing really fundamental has been changed to improve this system in some way. Here I could object to Mr. Eglitis... the fact that the rental law will not improve anything in this situation will not solve the problems, and without this rental law and all these State aid... State guarantees have been waiting for years, and all projects for rental houses have taken place as an initiative of municipalities themselves, including member quota support, including various ministerial support. They have been created, but they have been mainly a municipal initiative, and the municipalities have made a great commitment to implement these projects. Also, as far as I am aware, it is rental houses and really very, very, very successful projects that are already at a high level of readiness and will be implemented in the near future... In my opinion, the brightest thing is now being developed in Jelgava. Jelgava's project, I think, will serve as an example. New funding instruments, a new approach, together with international experts, are implementing a project with the attraction of an international fund. I think it is fantastic if it succeeds, and it will serve as an example of how to develop such projects elsewhere in Latvia, without waiting for state support. But with regard to this rental law, I would like to turn to the Bureau. Me too... It is not clear to me and my colleagues why today the issue of compensation for tenants of denationalised houses is not on the agenda of the Saeima. Yesterday, the commission was clear... Jūlia Stepanenko's proposal was rejected, which intended to create support... to entrust the government of draft laws with the creation of which the issue of denationalised houses would also be arranged in the context of this rental law. Because it is a question that everyone pretends to be invisible, but the rental law also originally proposed a solution. It was not acceptable to me, and the Commission as a whole decided not to address this issue in the context of the rental law, but agreed that it would be a priority for the Commission. In my opinion, then, the Saeima should also give priority to the fact that these... the tenants of the denationalised houses receive these funds and finally be compensated by the State. It's a great surprise to me... we have presented this draft decision today, which is not on the agenda today. This raises questions, and for me it is unacceptable that we are doing so. In some ways, the right of the opposition to table items on the agenda, which I have not yet thought, would not be included on the agenda by any proposal or draft decision tabled by a coalition Member, not to mention whether or not to support it, but just to give us the opportunity to talk about it. Colleagues, yes, of course, call for support for this draft law, and not only when it comes to politics, but hopefully also in Parliament. Not only in the Saeima, I see more and more people always talk about it, more and more Members talk about it. I hope this OECD study... You'll meet him. In my opinion, this is a very good study, especially the section of the proposed solutions, where the funding models that should be introduced are very interesting. The problem is already before our eyes, only the question of why we are not going to see it. I think this is a real social crisis. Experts, researchers, scientists have already pointed out how much we are actually dealing with big problems. There is a radical change to be publicised here. But these amendments to the law are not radical changes that I am talking about. There is a very, very large national reform to be carried out in housing policy in order to provide some kind of rescue... At present, the issue of balcony dropout is no longer a question; it is a daily issue. The question of partitioning the walls of houses is not simply a problem. It is a daily routine for those who work with these issues, and that is not only in Riga, but in all of Latvia, and its problem exists. And you can't pretend it doesn't exist. If we put together all the support mechanisms, everything that is currently available in Latvia, and accept the best theory of how well everything can work, it does not solve this issue of the social crisis. It does not solve anything completely if we look at the extent of the problem. In Riga alone, 3000 apartment houses are already in such a stage that if we came to the end of their technical depreciation, we could recognise any of them as hazardous to living. These are houses that have already broken down both structures, sanitary nodes, and various engineering communications. These homes should be recognised as hazardous to living, and there is no mechanism at present to prevent in any way the approaching social crises. Because when one house breaks, it's a big problem, all media write about it. But we can face a situation where they will be between 10 and 50 houses per week, which will cause such a problem. And what will they then answer? Tell me it's your own problem, it's your home? This is unacceptable to me, and I therefore call for support for this proposal. And other colleagues also need to focus more on this issue and talk more about it, also at government level, to talk more about it and to make it a priority. Currently, both the State Audit Office and the OECD have recognised this. What else should this happen? On government agendas, on ministerial and parliamentary agendas, I do not see this as a priority. I see that this is still a fifth-class issue of little interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U208	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U209	As Mr Valainis said, I would also like to speak, but only (It is not clear.) ... First. When I came back to the bill, I already mentioned the risks that exist. But I would like to add one more thing. Naturally, you will not call to me any ministers, existing or former, who would say that his ministry would work badly and will not make any positive changes. But in this case the field of housing is governed by several dozen laws, including many special laws. More than 120... about 200 regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers regulating this area. What's that talking about? It talks about the fact that there is no systematic approach to this process. And so when we are talking about the specific draft law that I am calling for support, however, I call on the Ministry of Economics to approach all these things systemically. And if there is no system, then there is an urgent, urgent need to create this kind of system. And that's what I wanted to say today. As regards whether or not there is a focus on these issues on the part of Members. And that's it. And of course. But only – is the attention related to the fact that we get a lot of bunny in our work process. The rental law mentioned several times today – it is already a second version. The second one, I underlined! – a version of which, for the second reading, the proposals appear in a quantity equal to twice the number of articles themselves. In such cases, the relevant draft law shall be returned and a new law drawn up, which would not have been thirsty or corrected, but would have been justified from the outset. We will return to the relevant draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U210	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U211	On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U212	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses”! Please, let's vote! There is no – 86, against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U213	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U214	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 June this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Apartment Property Law”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Ēriks Pucens. We can't hear you, Mr. Pucen! We still can't hear it. ( Pause) We can't hear it. ( Pause) We still don't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U215	Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U216	Now we hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U217	Thus, the National Administration and Municipal Commission worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law”. The draft law provides for easier arrangements for decisions to be made in apartment houses. So on issues that are about parking places for disabled people, about charging points for electric cars. In the Commission, we have discussed this a lot and a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot. The Commission unanimously supported and calls for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U218	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 84, against and abstaining from –. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U219	In the Commission, we set a deadline of one month for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U220	That's right?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U221	18 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U222	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Protected Service Law”, first reading. Daniels Pavluts, Member of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U223	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared for consideration at first reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Service” (No. 630/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to ensure the protection of the providers of the protected service from unauthorised use of the protected service not only for commercial purposes, but also for private purposes, as well as to impose a prohibition on the use of the legal service which does not conform to the characteristics of the legal service or illegal use of the service. I would like to point out that the draft law has been drafted with the aim of fulfilling the objective set by the Government Action Plan for 169 – to achieve a significant reduction of illegal television distributors by drafting amendments to the Protected Service Law, to radically reduce the spread of illegal satellites in Latvia, including Russia. I would also like to point out - and this is also reflected in the discussions in the First Reading Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - that this draft law is essential not only for ensuring fair commercial practices, but also from the point of view of national security and the protection of the information space. This bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Transport. In the Commission, support for the first reading of the Saeima was given after a longer discussion, and I therefore call for support to be given to the Saeima meeting at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U224	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” at first reading! Please, let's vote! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U225	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy will await Members' proposals for second reading by 2 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U226	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U227	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” (No. 544/Lp13) and referred it to the Parliamentary sitting at first reading. The nature. By letter of 24 April 2019 of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, the President of the Republic expressed the view that it was necessary to change the procedure for approving the existing guidelines. And by amending the Law on Education, delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers to approve the guidelines for the development of education for the next seven years. The Cabinet of Ministers shall, in so far as the law does not provide otherwise, determine development planning documents of all levels, types and time periods, the content to be included therein and the procedure for drawing up, approving, updating, forfeiting and term of office, as well as the procedure for presenting the relevant reports and public participation. The draft law includes a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to approve the guidelines for the first... the following seven years. The draft law provides that the amendment regarding the expression of paragraph 18 of Article 14 of this Law in a new version... Entry into force... The Cabinet of Ministers... office first... The guidelines for the development of education for the following seven years shall be adopted within the period... for the period from 2021 to 2027. The Commission has supported this draft law and calls for it to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U228	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U229	Hello, colleagues! Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. I applied for a debate on this draft law because, with similar amendments, by transferring powers to approve higher education guidelines from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Saeima or in the opposite direction, the Saeima has worked several times over the various periods, and what has happened before must probably be done some lessons. In order to understand the substance of these amendments, I call for a look at the history of this law and the specific article of the law. The Education Act itself was adopted long ago in 1999 by the government of Vilis Krištopan at the time when the minister of education was Jānis Gaigals, and in the first version of this article... There was also Article 14 on the competence of the Cabinet. And there was the eighteenth part of this verse about it... as it was then written that every four years the Cabinet of Ministers develops and submits to the Saeima for approval an educational development programme for the next four years. Then there was the programme, because Latvia's policy did not know too much at that time. The next amendment to this paragraph of the law was in 2001, when the word ‘programme’ was replaced by ‘concept’, and for this period those who worked in education remember that all universities wrote their concepts of further development. They were consolidated into a ministerial concept for the sector. These are the things that I am talking about when we debated amendments to the Law on Higher Education a few days ago, and, thus consolidating, the concept arose first and then, after a few years, what was referred to as guidelines. Name... Yes, and thus for that period the programming documents were drawn up for four years, the transition to a seven-year cycle took place in 2012. It was largely related to Latvia's membership of the European Union and the planning stages of the European Union. If we talk about the word "concept"... The word “guidelines”, which we are talking about at the moment, then the word “guidelines” in this document, appeared in this law in mid-2015, it was Laimdotas... No, I'm sorry... In 2012, there appeared, and at that time discussions were essentially about whether it was a document to be approved by the Saeima or a document to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The original version remained with the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers developed and passed on to the Saeima for approval, but already at that time the problem became apparent that the Saeima, when receiving the approval of these documents, had no possibility to change the content of the document anymore, and the process was not really productive. There were more disputes between the Ministry and the Saeima, between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Saeima than any useful action, let us say. And so during the period of Laimdota Straujuma's Cabinet of Ministers and Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile, I was the head of the Education, Culture and Science Commission at the Saeima. We agreed that the approval of this document should be transferred to the Cabinet of Ministers, and the wording was that the Cabinet lays down guidelines for the development of education for the next seven years. And I stress – as a single state policy and strategy in education. These latter words are very important. So in this period – from 2015 to 2018 – there was already the order that we are going to decide on now. In itself 12. At the end of the Saeima, shortly before the Saeima elections, it happened... I stopped working at the Education, Culture, and Science Commission at the time, and I was in another commission. To be honest, I did not succeed in tracking how it really happened, but the mandate for the approval of this important document was taken back to the Saeima. The relevant decision was therefore taken itself. 12 At the end of the Saeima. And at the moment we have come to the conclusion that obviously, according to everything that development documents are planned in Latvia, how they are implemented, who must assume responsibility... and that it would, however, be more correct if the Cabinet itself had also approved. We had a discussion at the Education, Culture and Science Commission on this issue. And as a result of the discussion, I would like to draw attention to two things. One thing is that, although it's decided... most likely we will decide that the Cabinet of Ministers takes over the right to approve the guidelines for the development of education for the current seven years, but the Commission for Education, Culture and Science is already in the preparatory phase... The preparation phase of the document must be intensively involved, it must be possible for the commission to express its views, and a feedback should be provided. It is possible that the provision of feedback should be envisaged in the draft law itself, because if it is not there, it is difficult to predict how these things will evolve further. That's one thing. The second point that I would like to make is that of the wording of Article 14(18). It is very laconic to say that it confirms "the guidelines for the development of education for the next seven years". I have drawn attention to what I quote before, because the previous wording we approved in the Saeima in 2015 had yet to add 'as a single national policy and strategy in education'. In my view, these few words that must be added are very important, because if we look at the document itself or, let's say, the accompanying documents, you will not find what the "guidelines" mean there. There is no explanation of the word "guidelines" in the Education Act, and if we add even the words "as a single state policy and strategy in education", it is immediately clear what the document will be about. In my view, this is essential. I call on the draft law to support further progress, but obviously I myself will make appropriate proposals and call on my colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U230	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U231	You see, we were talking about the same thing, but very different things. If it is formulated, “development of education”, all of this shall consist of at least two parts. The first part is the development of education as a network or as an instrument, or as a network of institutions, and thus as an integral part of the structure of public administration, functioning and development. That's one thing. Undoubtedly, it is the competence of the pure Cabinet of Ministers. But the other thing is education policy – what we want to achieve by implementing educational processes, what results, what standards and so on. This is not an issue of executive power. This is undoubtedly a question for the legislator, because it depends on what direction the country will take. And that's why here, I think, this formulation and offer is not fully thought out. It is not who will approve or support the development framework, but what it is and what it contains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U232	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U233	Yes, thank you to Mr Wuzan for his meaningful historical review and also for his substantive proposals. Let us certainly consider these proposals further in the second reading committee. There is nothing more to add, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U234	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please, let's vote! On – 66, against – 18, refrains – None. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U235	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U236	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 2 July this year. Please enable... activate the section on procedure and turn on the microphone for Ivars Zariņš, who wants to talk about procedure! ( Technical problems.) Mr. Zarins, we can't see or hear you!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U237	Neither speak nor see anyone want. I... That's the old record that's being...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U238	Okay, we got it. It's okay. (Laughter) So Mr. Zarins has sent him to the e-mail... asked for clarification as to what is now the procedure for submitting a request for inclusion in the current... However, it would be better to say "existing" on the agenda of the Saeima. I can give you an answer. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to activate new chapters in the system as we do on a day-to-day basis on the procedure. Mr Zarins, if you would draw attention to this, there is a request that has been made here, and immediately we will also look at it and quickly put it on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima. Although you have not seen or heard and colleagues have not seen or heard you, I hope that we have given you the answer, and this request is now being looked at. Please activate an additional section on the request! Dear colleagues, We have received a request from the Member Valaiņa, Reizniece-Ozola, Vucana, Augulis, Kučinska, Bergmanis, Dūklava, Jalinska, Krauzze and Dombrovskis Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, the Minister of Culture Nauris Puntulis “For the submission of questionable quality documents and the non-involvement of society, directing the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the project of the National Concert Hall at Elizabetes Street 2, Riga”. So the name to motivate Member Viktor Valaini. Mr. Valaiņš, please log in to the system! Thank you. Now's the name of Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U239	Supporters of the government based on facts, for my part, I want to motivate this request. When we ask the Prime Minister and the Minister for Culture, Mr Puntulis, to explain what the circumstances are, then, that has made us consider that we will be building the new cultural concert hall on Elizabeth Street. Let me explain why. In 2018, the Ministry of Culture itself came up with a proposal that based on the PricewaterhouseCoopers study, where several locations in Riga were analysed, this concert hall should be built on the AB Dam. Then we're still in the public space... We also heard a whole series of other ideas for building. New studies were even discussed, where the new concert hall should be built. In this case, a choice has been made about Elizabeth Street 2. In my view, this is a rather absurd choice, and public involvement has not taken place at all, which we are also asking for... We ask the Minister and the Prime Minister to provide us with clear answers, because it is not understandable why buildings with a value of EUR 7 million should be disposed of, but also to pay 2.9 million for the demolition of these buildings. I cannot understand Mr Puntulis' argument that Communism (A sound break.) ... In my view, it will require a wider public debate, and if we have to break down a kind of communism-time building, then... and to restore maybe some time building, then... If we enter the districts, we look at these buildings built during communism and... Maybe the nearly 10 million that will just be thrown out of the wind here could be invested there. And then look at how practical this building is and what involvement of the public in the selection of this building place has been. Architects are already, really people... Also, people in the cultural field who have gone into this topic and understand it are very confused, and there is no explanation for society. That is why we are asking, first of all, for an explanation of how we have decided so far (It is not clear.) ... the government is in. Secondly, to explain what has happened to all the resources that have been spent on evaluating other options, where decisions have already been made on other versions. Colleagues! In our view, it does not represent any good governance; moreover, the delay in the government has led to the loss of investment money for the degraded territories, which Riga as a capital could add to this project. Now this question... It will no longer be possible to resolve it in this way. There are a lot of questions, we have prepared for the six Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture. We invite you to look at this matter as a matter of urgency. And, my colleagues, be quiet and think about how absurd this is and how expensive it will be for Latvian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U240	Thank you. The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, In this parliamentary term there are 10 Jānis: Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Butāns, Jānis Cielēns, Jānis Dombrava, Jānis Dūklavs, Jānis Iesalnieks, Jānis Krišāns, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns. And we greet them in approaching Johns! (Applause) Name for the statement to Member Rihard Kola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U241	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I informed you that a remote meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission will take place after the sitting, five minutes after the closing of the sitting. Links to the remote sitting are sent to you via email. So I call you to be quick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-06-18-PT13-2100-U242	Thank you. Dear colleagues, May the feast of Ligo be joyful to you, that the beautiful Johns may be. We'll wait for you back on July 2 at the remote emergency sitting. The main item on the agenda will be the National Development Plan, i.e. the NAP, 2 July. Thank you all for your work today. Members are still registered. It was a success. As a result, I closed the spring 2020 session and closed the session. Thank you all for your work.
