ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2164-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall continue to examine the agenda for the third remote emergency session on 19 November this year. Agenda item: Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. I will remind you that, in the past - in the course of the third remote emergency session on 19 November - the debate on this issue has already taken place and has been closed. The voting regime was announced and as a result of the vote, we concluded that there was no quorum at the sitting, which led to a break. We must therefore continue the sitting with a vote today, continuing the discussion of the agenda of the sitting. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Election of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government”! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 66, against and refrains. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Auditing, submitted by Member Jurs Pūce, Arthur Tomas Plesa, Vitas Andas Steelas, Mārtiņš Bondara, Inese Voika, Daces Rukšāne–Ščipčinskas, Daniels Pavļuta, Inese Ikstenas, Andra Skrides and Mārtiņš Steinas. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2164-U2	Good evening, colleagues! I really wonder about those colleagues who have suddenly changed their opinion for a week, and I believe that a person who has lied to the whole of Latvian society and who has used taxpayers' money in fact in the interests of his family... parking permissions... so that my wife can drive... the election of such a Member to the relevant commission today. I do not know what you have been negotiating, but in any case, the 66 Members who voted in favour today show that, therefore, someone who cannot be a minister because he has lied can be a Member. And, of course, I would also like to emphasise that this case is likely to result in criminal proceedings in Juris Pucem, but it will be nothing special in Parliament - in every party, in reality, under the leadership of each party, there is someone who has criminal proceedings in the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. That set of gentlemen is with us. However, I call on Members to join my request, which is addressed to Juris Pucem. And I appeal to my classmate and Saeima Member Juris Puce, saying the following: Juri Puce, you have to set aside the parliamentary mandate! You've lied to the public, and you've lied openly. And you only did this thing - confessing lies - when you realized you'd get caught, otherwise you wouldn't have done it and you would have stressed that it's a joke that you were joking like that with Maris Michelevski. And it wasn't voluntary. It was just because you realized you'd get caught. A member of the Saeima may not be a liar. You've violated an oath from the Saeima. And you've violated it in the least form possible. For nothing. And it shows that you are not worthy of being a public official, you are not worthy of being a Member. Your way of thinking is to cling through through the silent and then lie. Your way of thinking is not at ministerial level, nor even at parliamentary level. Your way of thinking is to steal small, tiny things. And so we don't know how big things are. You, Juri Pūce, are not worthy to be the leader of the Republic of Latvia. You're a liar. A little liar. And probably on this issue with a very great chance to judge and judge you. I therefore call once again on all the other 98 colleagues to show their attitude rather than adopt it as a norm in Parliament, which is already the lowest threshold of trust in society. No, I think no institutions that would have even less trust than the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. I call for the attitude to be shown, for us to apply in the debate and to express our attitude, for us to turn away from a Member who has lied publicly. Now, how long will we live this way?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This issue is devasting Parliament. Such a Member degrades Parliament. And there is no room for such a Member in politics. He has to leave politics. He is not worthy to be called on behalf of a Member of the Saeima, where he can still participate in the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit - the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit! - By clinging through the pass through your family. What's he doing in the audits? The real one! The goat as a gardener in this commission. Even better people... a person in this item is simply impossible to find who leaves the Minister because he has violated these expenditure and audit issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2164-U3	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision submitted by Jura Pūce, Arthur Tomas Plesa, Vitas Anda Steel, Mārtiņš Bondara, Inese Voika, Daces Rukšāne–Ščipčinskas, Daniela Pavluta, Inese Ikstena, Andra Skrides and Mārtiņš Steinas “On Election of the Saeima Member Juris Pūce to the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission”! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. We have therefore examined all the items on the agenda for the third remote emergency session on 19 November this year. I declare the third remote emergency sitting closed on 19 November. I'm sorry, too. ... registration. It's been a success. Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
