ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I call for seats to be held in the Chamber so that we can begin the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 17 September 2020. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes (the head of the sitting is knocked down by a hammer.) The draft law “On the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Sweden on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers is referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. delivered. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Stepanenko, Sprūde, Smita, Liepāja, Valaiņa, Dūklavs and other draft laws presented "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U2	Dear colleagues, Today, as members of the opposition, we want to turn to some coalition parties. First of all, we want to appeal to the National Association and call for joint support to the Minister for Agriculture in his hard struggle for a reduced VAT basic food. We know that there is a difference of opinion in the coalition, although it is very strange, because the government declaration states, however, that the government, by common agreement, is committed to reducing VAT on basic food. That is why we are calling for support from the Saeima, including the opposition, to be expressed by the Minister for Agriculture. We are ready to help you gain this victory, because its victory will be yours and its realization will also be yours. We also address the Group's CPV LV. We also want to help you to implement the promises made to your constituents and to implement the party's programme, because your promises also included reduced VAT on food, and we believe that in the depths of your heart you are keen to achieve this. We want to help you, because it is very difficult to implement it in such a coalition - we understand that. We therefore also call on you to vote in favour of this initiative today, and that will also be your victory. This will be your victory, and we want to help you to get together to what has long been promised to producers, farmers as a support mechanism, because in essence, whatever we hear, let us say, the arguments against, above all, this reduction in VAT is aimed at supporting the local producer to reduce the proportion of the shadow economy in the sector (we know that it is practically dramatic in the meat sector) and, of course, consumers would feel any slight price reduction or... No rise. We know that under various circumstances prices for products are rising independently of taxes or producers' mark-ups, such as those on fruit and vegetables: if, let us say, it is a bad year, then their prices are rising. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) A small comment on a comment from the Ministry of Finance. The fact that the reduced VAT will rock a huge gap in the state budget, and this cannot be allowed. I would like to remind you that when the previous Saeima, together with the government, successfully implemented the reduced VAT initiative for fruit and vegetables in 2017 (Mr. Neighbouring will not be allowed to lie), there was a Unity of Mr Dalder, who fought against the reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables, with a very desperate continuation of the fight against the reduced VAT on basic food. I understand that he is still working in the Ministry of Finance. And despite Mr. Dalder’s predictions (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) ... Apocalyptic predictions that this... this initiative on fruit and vegetables will bring enormous damage, we can see... The Ministry of Finance itself has finally acknowledged, reluctantly, but admitted that the benefit is. The benefits are from labour taxation, increasing the number of VAT payers. Therefore, honourable colleagues, if we listen to such experts, we are better not to listen at all, because the Ministry of Finance reported before the beginning of 2019 that the reduced VAT on basic food would mean minus, mathematical minus, 50 million in the state budget. But there are 80 million reports yesterday. If so unseriously the Ministry of Finance charges this minus, then we cannot rely on such calculations. But we know that there will be no minuses, but no minuses, because we know that we will gain both the VAT payers and the labour tax that we need at the moment. Dear colleagues, I call on you to be far-sighted and to support this initiative together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 45, for - 6. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Prisons” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision on the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Mission in Iraq (NATU Mission Iraq). Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U4	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Today you have a request to support the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Defence to continue our mission with other NATO member states in Iraq in order to stabilise this country, ensure security, as well as train the Iraqi armed forces. We have decided to slightly increase the number of soldiers authorised to take part in this mission in this request. The number of soldiers could be approximately conductive, up to 35 people. This does not mean that we will send all these people at the same time, but we must be able to do so. We will continue our mission in Iraq as a Danish contingent together with our Nordic colleagues. At the same time, it will help both to promote cooperation between our armed forces and our close neighbours and, of course, to gain further experience in such missions. The main task of Latvian soldiers will be training, as well as the protection of advisors and advisors during this mission in Iraq. So please support. This Decision shall expire on..., expire on 1 November 2022. So this mission will continue for so long, then again we will come to Parliament and see what to do further with the Iraqi mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Mission in Iraq (NATO Mission Iraq)”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft Decision on the participation of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the European Union military operation in the Mediterranean (EUNAVFOR MED IRINI). Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U6	Madam President, Dear colleagues, This is the second document before you. So the previous one was about our participation in the NATO mission in Iraq, this is the European Union mission in the Mediterranean, and the main aim of the mission is to provide additional security for the European Union's external borders in the Mediterranean, to combat smuggling, to fight human trafficking as well... coming from North Africa towards Europe. Of course, also, if necessary, help those of our partners that can be identified on the territory of Libya. In this operation we are only taking part with two officers, but it is also quite important, because one of these officers will be on board, on board, the other one will be on land in Italy. It is precisely cooperation at the level of officers that makes an important contribution not only to this European Union mission, but also to our joint coordination of the armed forces between the Member States of the European Union. As you know, it is the Mediterranean region that is one of the most serious regions in border crossing matters for the European Union. I think it is also important for us to show solidarity with those countries of southern Europe, such as Italy or Spain, by combating both smuggling, illegal immigration and many, many other issues. So I am asking for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U7	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the participation of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the European Union military operation in the Mediterranean (EUNAVFOR MED IRINI)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. I thank the Minister of Defence for his participation and reporting to the Saeima. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,248 collective application of Latvian citizens “Prevent discrimination in the employment of pre-school educators””. Mandate, ethics... So, honourable Members, are there any objections to examining this own-initiative proposal at today's sitting? There is no objection. We are therefore starting to examine the own-initiative proposal. So on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U8	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! This issue was already on the table in March, but at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, the sitting at which the issue was to be discussed was suspended, and we are now looking at it almost half a year late. So on 12 February 2020, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 248 Latvian citizens entitled “Prevent discrimination in employment of pre-school educators”. This application asks to ensure that teachers of preprimary education institutions receive remuneration from the state budget. On 11 March this year, the Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission examined the application and heard a representative of the initiative applicants who pointed to the unequal pay of pre-school teachers. In the opinion of the representatives of the initiative applicants, the inequality is created because the remuneration of teachers is provided not from the state budget, but from the municipal budget. Each municipality, in turn, is guided by its own financial capabilities and different priorities, so teachers' salaries vary from municipality to municipality. The Commission unanimously decided to refer the Latvian citizens' initiative to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and also to the Education, Culture and Science Commission for further evaluation. Based on the fourth and fifth part of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Board of Mandates, Ethics and Application prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 248 collective application of Latvian citizens “Prevent discrimination in the employment of pre-school teachers””. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U9	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U10	Thank you. Madam President, Colleagues! The Saeima has received a collective application from Latvian citizens “Prevent discrimination in the employment of pre-school educators”. Before the majority of Members of the Saeima, who have a duty to defend the interests of Latvian society, may not be interested, I will voice it somewhere away from the eyes, I would like to draw attention to some things. During the second week of the school year, teachers and the whole Latvian society were able to read that almost all groups of teachers in Latvia receive half the salary lower than in OECD countries on average and pre-school teachers... in the pre-school teacher stage - just half as much. Together with my colleagues in the context of budgeting, I have already twice made a proposal on the partial financing of pre-school teachers' salaries from the state budget for a number of reasons. Firstly, because the municipalities have always pointed out that they do not have sufficient resources at their disposal to significantly raise the salaries of educators. Secondly, there is indeed a lack of teachers in the pre-school phase. Even more - critical lack of motivated, happy and unexploded educators. At present, a family story like this is almost typical. Parents are knowledgeable experts in their field, pay much for all possible taxes, or certain taxes. Their group of children in the municipal garden has for about three years not a full set of teachers, moreover - despite the fact that children with special needs have been integrated into the group. I trust that the conclusions should not be put forward, because I hope that your experience stories say the same. Unfortunately, not the educators are the governments... national priority, but also families and children are not priorities for attitude and, above all, for action. The vacancies of preschool educators are independent... Permanent... Not yet filled. Advertising calls for students to work, but in practice, to be admitted, these students do not survive very long for various reasons and often leave not only studies, but also do not plan work in education. And that's all because of the load and superhuman work. This work is currently mainly carried out by (we know of the average age of many published) teachers before age... at pre-retirement age. The question is, how long? And what solution is now or will be able to offer? Who and how will change? Qualitative changes. Looking at how the party at the moment is in the person of its nominated minister, so to say, dealing with the question of the remuneration of teachers, there is no belief that the allocation of convulsions money for four or eight months shortly before the start of the new school year or before the beginning of the calendar year, only by formally carrying out the schedule for raising the salary of the teachers concerned, will ever give a significant boost, especially in pre-school. It is sad and, yes, also ashamed of the endless desperation of educators, families and also children. It is clear that pre-school education, which currently lacks teachers, does not replace generations and that the young generation does not choose this profession. Only a significant increase in remuneration, including by guaranteeing it from the state budget, would allow to attract teachers to pre-school and even start to restore the prestige of this profession. The salaries of pre-school educators should be financed entirely from the state budget, of course leaving the possibility for municipalities to participate in the educators' wage system with their own funding. The teachers in this government are not in the defence of the Minister, and the Minister, unfortunately, does not want or is unable to justify the relevance of this subject for the Prime Minister and the Government. The question of the remuneration of teachers is a matter of national prestige, government and prime minister. It must not be neglected because it has significant consequences for the development of the country, especially at this point in time, in the process of implementing education reforms. What we put into preschool children will be seen in the growth of the country in a year's time, and now we can see a little bit here. For the second year, this government really cannot make such a decision, and Latvian society has now come to our aid - it is asking us to act. It would only be logical to refer this proposal to the commissions for further consideration on the substance rather than simply to reject it in the future. I call for support not only by passing on to commissions at the moment, as colleagues have already decided, but also for further positive decisions, especially because the budgetary context is present. Well, let the educators finally feel your support and you see that they have really ever taught you well. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U11	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U12	Hello! Only a brief comment on how discrimination between pre-school teachers is actually manifested. As you know, during the Covid-19 crisis premiums and support were additionally received by medical staff, both from the Ministry of the Interior and those on the first line. But in the case of the restaurants managed by the New Conservative Party, it must be understood that the allowances for work in sensitive circumstances due to the Covid-19 were received by the Prison Administration staff, but the issue of providing preschool teachers who were in this situation in risk working conditions, both psychologically and emotionally, cared for our children. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U13	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Vucanas: “No!” ) None. So please call! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 248 collective application of Latvian citizens “Prevent discrimination in the employment of pre-school educators””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On the preservation of Latvia’s forests” of 10 075 Latvian citizens”. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at the parliamentary sitting? There is no objection by Members. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U14	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I will give a report on behalf of the Commission... “On preservation of Latvia’s forests”. On 29 January 2020, the Saeima received a collective application of 10 075 Latvian citizens “On preservation of Latvia’s forests”. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has examined this application, which invites to find a solution for excessive deforestation of Latvian forests. The Commission heard a collective applicant who justified the need for an initiative and the current problems in the forest sector by presenting statistical data and possible solutions to problems. In its meetings, the Commission heard the views of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the joint stock company “Latvian State Forests”, the foundation “World Natural Fund”, the association “Latvian Forest Owners’ Association”, the association “Latvian Wood Industry Federation”, the University of Latvia and “Latvian State Forest Science Institute “Silava””. The views of industry experts invited to the Commission varied. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, “Latvian State Forests” and “Latvian Wood Industry Federation” presented the Commission with various statistical data and informed about the current situation in the forest sector, expressing their rejection of the proposals made in the initiative (Sitting Manager knocks down with hammer.) and their impact on the Latvian economy. VARAM expert pointed out shortcomings in forestry and what forests are felling, such as old forests, biologically valuable forests, and protected forest habitats. VARAM expressed its support for the proposal for a ban on felling during the period of bird reproduction. ‘ The representative of the World Natural Fund stressed that it is necessary to decide on the future of Latvia’s forests in the climate and bio-economic... in the context of the bio-economy objectives and pointed out that climate objectives cannot be achieved without taking into account the issue of forests. ‘ The representative of the Latvian Forest Owners’ Association stressed that municipalities should not be restricted in the rational management of their forests. The expert at the University of Latvia pointed out that there was no national plan for forests and that Latvia did not comply with the Kyoto Protocol requirements. ‘ The expert of the Latvian State Forest Science Institute “Silava” presented the Commission with the data and current information at its disposal. On the basis of the views heard, the Commission found that it is necessary to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out its work before 30 December of this year.... prepare and submit a report to the Saeima on: first, the importance of forests in Latvia together with the information included in the report referred to in Section 4 (4) of the Forest Law; second, possibilities to review forest ecosystem protection and forest management policies in order to ensure compliance with international, including EU, policy documents and assessments in progress towards implementation of biodiversity objectives. The Commission also decided to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to set up an inter-ministerial working group, which will develop a forest management policy planning document for the period until 1 January 2030, setting specific objectives and achievable performance indicators in the following areas: protection of biodiversity, progress towards climate neutrality and provision of public welfare, including workplaces and recreation opportunities. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this application.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U15	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,075 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the preservation of Latvia’s forests”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the decision was taken. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 167 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the period of forestry peace during bird nesting””. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? There is no objection. We are starting to examine the own-initiative proposal. Member Aldis Adamovičs on behalf of the commission of mandates, ethics and applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U16	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Another similar collective application for the previous one – “On the logging peace period during bird nesting”. On 10 June 2020, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 167 Latvian citizens “On the logging peace period during bird nesting”. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has examined this application, which calls for an overall period of forestry peace during bird nesting from 1 April to 30 June. At its meeting on 19 June this year, the Commission heard a representative of the applicants and at its meeting on 9 September the views of experts and industry. The views of the representatives invited to the Commission varied. Experts of the authors of the initiative – society “Latvian Ornithology Society” -, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Nature Protection Authority, foundation “World Nature Fund” and foundation “Latvian Nature Fund” expressed their support for this initiative, pointing to the lack of efficiency of existing restrictions included in legislation and negative statistical trends in individual bird species. In turn, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Latvian Wood Industry Federation and the Society “Latvian Forest Owners’ Association” rejected the introduction of additional restrictions, pointing to the disproportionate nature of the proposals, the loss of competitiveness in the sector and possible negative impact on the Latvian economy. On the basis of the views heard, the Commission found that further discussion and evaluation of this proposal were necessary. The Commission decided to refer the citizens' initiative ‘On the logging peace period during bird nesting’ to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth part of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Order Roll, the Commission prepared the draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the 10 167 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the period of forestry peace during bird nesting””. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 167 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the period of forestry peace during bird nesting””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications is... I am sorry, Members Linda Liepiņa, Didzis Šmits, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Viktors Valainis, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jūlija Stepanenko, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Lubova Švecova, Karina Sprūde, Armands Krauze and Aldis Gobzems have submitted their own proposal for a decision “On the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to temporarily suspend recovery from taxpayers by the State Revenue Service”. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? Are there any objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) “Yes!” ) There are objections. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Why then?” ) So Member Latkovsky has reservations, so we must decide... Member Latkovsky has reservations, so we must decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. ( Milestones.) One Member may speak in favour, one against and one against, on the agenda of the next part-session. Mrs. Liepaja, are you going to talk? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “We can’t include this anymore?” ) No. No, no. No, no. Mrs. July, are you going to talk about inclusion on the agenda of the next sitting? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) So "for"... in this... No, next... So “for” is applied to speak a Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U18	Well, if I said, Mr. Latkovsky... I say that... President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr Latkovsky, if I said that you surprised me with your 'no', it would be to say nothing. Now I will turn to all Latvian entrepreneurs, to all! Latvian businessmen, Chairman of the Group of the New Unity Party... Ainar you, right? Ainars Latkovsky... So remember this name, surname! There's someone taking a shot on the Internet. Let's go, let's go! This man enters the store in the restaurant... Well, where else could you go, Mr. Latkovsky? ( Internouncing call.) That, in the woods, there's no... there are no cheques to be submitted... Where else is it? Well, what else do we have in there? Everywhere, Mr. Latkovsky, where you will go, I will call on entrepreneurs simply not to serve you. You have just voted against entrepreneurs - all Latvian entrepreneurs! - who are fighting the State Revenue Service from its first day when they have decided to open some business in Latvia. Do you have any business? I don't know. A. Gobzem: “He doesn’t know!” ), well, without... without political... Without a political business, do you have anything else? I'll see. Now you're for me... Now Mr. Asheraden can breathe out calmly. Mr Latkovska, now (Applause) This is... this will be your time now. Now it's your turn. I want your time to stop so fast because I like this one. Well, you're going to enjoy it, and I'm going to do it, too. I promise you. Just like all Latvian taxpayers. Remember this word! Ainars Latkovskis just for one week beautifully “knocked”, either, that we could make it to the State Revenue Service... it debuts on the decision that now is 4444... I don't know that number there for New Earth could, either, double or triple every day, there's no surprise already. So... Mr. Latkovsky, I had not been waiting for this colossal meeting of the Saeima (The Hall of Noise.) You just... So, well, for... Next... Are you going to vote? Well, when you may be out of service for a week, when you may throw old eggs on your car and so on... And I don't know what's there... Well, I'm following now... I don't know who's following me, I'm not interested in... I hope that you will be followed in the same way as I am. You will be followed by entrepreneurs who want to tell you just... Well, show it real... their real situation as it is. So... How do I want it to end? That you should go wash the dishes. Well, in my Wok to Walk restaurant right there is a vacancy. Welcome, as they say. Well, Mr. Latkovsky! Genny's just! Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U19	Mr. Aldis Gobzems has applied to speak. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: "Mr Latkovsky, think... !” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U20	Hello, colleagues! I call on you to vote 'no' so that society as a whole can see that those who vote 'no'... not only Latkovsky, but everyone who votes against... Dear Society, I invite you not to really serve these people in any Latvian store, restaurant and anywhere else because they vote against you. Latkovsky is a angler. All Latvian fishermen - you are hundreds of thousands - don't go with him to jump more! Don't go drink to her... Latkovski, who has not been in business for any day in life, does not understand anything from business at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “Let’s go drink!” ) The only thing he understands is to go to Vonsovich cheaply to represent him. One of the lawyers who loves money at all, suddenly Latkovski almost for free, about some 600 or how... one hundred euro represents, because Latkovsky, a poor person, cannot earn anywhere. So let's sit home and don't go to restaurants! I understand that it's a lot of money in those pockets for Unity with OIC. But let him sit at home, let him jump in his bath or I don't know where. Remove him from all those fishermen's societies. At the restaurant, when he goes in, so that the first thing he says is: “Mr Latkovsky, you voted against”. Happy way - to your bathroom to fishing!” The only thing he could do there. The rest of us who will now vote 'no' - you are voting against the Latvian people. You are voting against Latvian entrepreneurs. You are voting against our country! You are voting... You're doing this all the time! How can you not love your land?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How can you avoid loving your own people?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You think you are now the big boss, that you all love... that you all love that you will now fall before you just because you have a Member's mandate and how much pay they have for thousands of euros. And then Latkovsky will go to that restaurant and be able to put the big tea money. Don't get out of him! Respect yourself! Be proud! Be real Latvians! Be true Russians! Respect yourself! Don't take any dating from Latkovsky, no matter where he's going! Right here, at the Saeima, all its restaurants... That's the place... I know that all those servicers, when the Members go, so they're going... and always kind, and so on. When Latkovsky comes, stand down and say, “Mr. Latkovsky, enough! We're done once! Go to your bathroom and knock there! Grab fish and go to Vonsovich to make him ever represent you somewhere for free, because you already don't have enough with that OIC. It is not enough for you to sink the people of Latvia this half year.” The people of Latvia wake up. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Geidan: “In the tenth!” ) The people of Latvia are waking up, and on 10 October the people of Latvia will show you, Mr. Latkovsky. It will show that the New Unity will soon come to an end. And I guarantee it to you. As I stand here and as Mrs Mūrniece sits behind me and thinks where to turn off the microphone, I assure you that Kariņa's time with Latkovsky's time will soon come out forever... For life. And we'll never raise a monument to him. We'll never name a street in his name. We will never remember him well because he has voted against the people of Latvia. That is fair and true, Mr Latkovsky. The only thing you've been able to do is to chart your warm chair. You've never earned a grave in your life. You have lived at the expense of the people against whom you are voting today against whom you have dissented today: 'No!' The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “At last you will become popular!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U21	Here we go! Mr Gobzem has spoken against including this draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting. Colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to temporarily suspend recovery of the state revenue service's cut-off benefits from taxpayers” on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 35, for - 1. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda for the next sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “It’s beautiful! Genny!’ ) Please turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U22	Colleagues, can we make a proposal for this draft decision to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U23	So there is a proposal to hand over this draft decision to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission if? The Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko: “Yes!” ) Yes, thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U24	I would also have a proposal to submit it to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U25	Thank you. So let's vote. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to temporarily suspend the recovery of the state revenue service's late payments from taxpayers” to the Budget and Financial (Finance) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 35, for - 35, for - 3. Consequently, the draft decision has not been forwarded to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to temporarily suspend the recovery of late payments from taxpayers by the State Revenue Service” (Interface: “Go!” ) transfer to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 36, refraining - 3. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal has been rejected. ( Milestones.) The agenda shall consist of an examination of requests from Members on which requests have been received by Members. The Members Linda Liepiņa, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Didzis Šmits, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Viktors Valainis, Jūlija Stepanenko, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Lubova Švecova, Karina Sprūde, Armands Krauze and Aldis Gobzems have submitted a request to the Minister of Finance Janis Reiras “On the recovery from taxpayers of the State Revenue Service’s cut-off benefits”. Name for motivation to Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U26	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. So, three minutes just... It's good that we made this double... version - well, demand, thank God, “hired” can’t. So, Mr. Pug, I'll ask you... Perhaps you could see this in the Request Commission as soon as possible. I understand that there are many requests here, but I am also, say, ready to come to the Request Commission even four times a week. We can make sittings both longer and more often - it is not forbidden if people want to work. So that's my request, because there are things that just need to be done quickly in the country, and this is one of those things, because entrepreneurs with the problems that they face by the State Revenue Service and the genius New Unity Finance Minister Reir, just throw their mind, make business hard every day, let people go away from work, don't know anything about how to live tomorrow. Therefore, indeed my request - see this request as soon as possible in the Request Commission. As for the rest of the... Well, what do you say? We've just seen how many... I really do not want to think that, in THE YOUNG Unity, all people are so stupid that you did not support this previous decision, well, you agreed before. I would like to think that something happened to you, Mr. Latkovsky, why you silently said something 'no' because we didn't even hear there that someone was 'no'. The logic of being 'no'... If the Saeima Member is 'no', logically, then just start to wonder what you're doing here at all? But well, that's another story. On demand - there are many different issues. You know, about them... that those Covid-19 benefits that were given... Now, take it back. There... I... You know... I have hundreds of examples from business. And they're... me.... they are so crazy that I am even ashamed of the parliamentary tribunal to say these examples. I'm ready, and I know there's another Saeima, for example, four... four Members from any political group... Entrepreneurs... We could take them... Four thousand... How much so New Earth has gathered now those who have to ask back, I don't know... We would sit down and, within three days, with my knowledge of entrepreneurship, I would go through all this about different sectors - things about all those who will now be asked back... In all these cases, we would pass through. On one side, we would put or make a pile of things that could be said: well, a really stupid New Earth move -- I don't understand anything from what they're holding... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I don't understand anything from business, and entrepreneurs are right! And in the second pile we would select those who really cheat. You know, I thought it would be mostly... Well, out of a hundred percent, maybe five would cheat. But think about what this story is about! This story is about stupidity. The country is against the businessman! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U27	Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. The next section of the agenda is entitled ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. The draft decision on the release of Vitas Piluma from the office of a member of the Bank of Latvia Council. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U28	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The family's got... More precisely, the Bank of Latvia has received an invitation from Vitas Piluma, a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia, from a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia. The Saeima has received this application, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima has examined, and there are no objections. Request to you - to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the release of Vitas Piluma from the office of a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U30	Hello, colleagues! See, at second reading, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”, which has been declared urgent. The draft law requires that an electronic communications operator, after receiving notification from the State Fire and Rescue Service of the disaster related to the danger to the life, health or property of a person, must send as soon as possible to its users and subscribers the information prepared by the Service about the action to be taken in such a situation. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has not received any proposal for second reading of the draft law. Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U32	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Today we are looking at the urgent draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” (No. 727/Lp13). The draft law intends to subject two new psychoactive substances - furanyl UF-17 and 2F-viminol - to control, which are subject to a temporary ban in Latvia, as the use of these substances and articles containing them may cause serious damage to human health; these substances are life-threatening, as well as may pose a threat to public safety in general. One proposal - the proposal of the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele was received and discussed at the Legal Commission, which establishes 5 November of this year as the date of entry into force of the law, because the prohibition of substances specified in the draft law should also be provided for in the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U34	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U35	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “On transfer of real estate to Riga Rihards Wagnera Street 4, Riga, to Riga Rihards Wagner Association”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U36	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “On transfer of real estate to Riga Rihards Wagnera Street 4, Riga” at the third reading. For the third reading of the draft law, six proposals have been submitted by the responsible commissions - the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It provides that Riga Rihards Wagner Society has the right to carry out economic activities related to the maintenance or use of real estate without having to make a profit, as well as the right to set up commercial companies for the organisation of renovation and maintenance of real estate. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U38	Thank you. 2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It provides for a new wording of the sixth paragraph of Article 4 of the draft law. It is specified that real estate, land... the transfer of real estate on Vaļņu Street is carried out in accordance with the Regulation. Taking into account that the draft law provides for the application of the recovery mechanism, the draft law provides that the Riga Rihards Wagner Association is to carry out an update of the cost-benefit analysis and, if necessary, reimburse to the state budget an amount exceeding the difference between all costs related to the restoration, maintenance and development of real estate and operating income. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U40	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. There have been editorial clarifications in line with Commission-supported proposal 2, which, for the first time in the draft regulation, refers to the full text of Regulation No. the name of the 651/2014. In the wording of the first paragraph of Article 7 of the draft law, the short title of that Regulation shall be indicated. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U42	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The necessary clarifications have been made, as in the present case the commercial aid that will be provided to the Riga Rihards Wagner Association will not be financed in the form of money, but real estate. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U44	5. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for the retention of documents relating to the transfer of immovable property for a period of 10 years. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U46	And six. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Versional clarifications have been made because according to Section 1 of the Land Registers Act landbooks record real estate and strengthen related rights. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U48	Colleagues, we have examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U49	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On transfer of real estate to Riga Rihards Wagnera Street 4, Riga” at the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 84, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Liability Insurance of Owners of Land Vehicles”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U50	Dear President, Honourable Members! See first reading draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners” (No. 582/Lp13). This Law shall provide that the civil liability of the owner for the use of registered special military equipment in road traffic shall no longer be covered. And this law lays down the procedure for the compensation of damages in the European Economic Area and in the Swiss Confederation. The Vehicle Insurers’ Office will in future determine the losses incurred in the event of an accident, evaluate the calculations and notify the Ministry of Defence whether to pay the remuneration or not. Within seventy days this remuneration shall be paid. Outside the European Union... The European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation will be regulated by international agreements binding on Latvia and the Ministry of Defence (taking into account that Latvian troops also participate outside the European Union). The question is, what is a special military technique? It's armour that's not built on cars. Mostly, it is a track-chain technique that is designed for learning and fighting conditions. And if there's a dispute, because there can also be wheels in this technique... If a dispute arises, whether it is special or not, then all these disputes are resolved by the National Armed Forces. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U51	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U52	The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 September, two weeks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U53	September 30, huh? Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U54	Good morning, honourable Mrs. Mourniece! Colleagues! The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”. What does the draft law foresee? The draft law provides for clarification of the reference to the law - a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. And intends to add a list of authorities entitled to process patients' data. The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs calls for the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U56	October 9, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U57	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the law “Participation of the Latvian National Armed Forces in International Operations””, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U58	Good morning, dear colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the law “Participation of the Latvian National Armed Forces in International Operations”” (No. Lp13). The Act was adopted in 1995. At that time there was a different geopolitical situation, and the participation of the National Armed Forces of Latvia was adapted primarily for operations and peacekeeping in the Balkan Peninsula. Now, however, the real geopolitical situation has changed and these norms are no longer capable of covering all modern operations and military needs. And that is why we are not always able to fulfil our international commitments, both within NATO, within the European Union and in other formats. This draft legislative act is designed to do two things. First, in order to clarify the definition of ‘international peace-keeping operations’ and ‘international peace-keeping operations’, with a focus on the purpose of the operation rather than on geographical attraction, as in today’s situation the conflict area is not necessarily limited to the territory of a particular country. In this way, we will achieve a more flexible mechanism for decision-making in the current international operation. And secondly, to replace a specific list... List of grounds for international operations - be it resolutions, recommendations or other format - which is not always exhaustive, with a general reference to the commitment to comply with the Charter of the United Nations, the international obligations assumed and to ensure the participation of the Latvian NBS contingent in international operations in accordance with international agreements binding on the Republic of Latvia, as well as (this is important!) maintain, of course, responsibility for the failure to comply with international commitments made. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law and supported the first reading. On behalf of the Commission, colleagues call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U59	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece. Mrs. Mujniece, you have applied for a debate on this draft law. (Laughter) So Mrs Muižniece does not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “Participation of the Latvian National Armed Forces in International Operations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U60	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U61	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 September this year. Draft law on support for the European Anti-Fraud Office, first reading On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U62	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission looked at the government's draft package of three draft laws. The first one we will see is the draft law on support for the European Anti-Fraud Office, which provides for the designation of the competent authority of Latvia, as well as its duties and rights, by providing support for the investigation of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF). The Commission supported further progress of this draft law for the first reading at the Saeima sitting. I therefore call on you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U63	Please call me! Let us vote on the first reading of the draft law on support for the European Anti-Fraud Office. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U64	24 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U65	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Account Register Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U66	This draft law is the second of the legislative package that has been tabled. The draft law ‘Amendment to the Account Register Act’ provides that the Ministry of Finance, which is the competent authority for providing support to the European Anti-Fraud Office, is entitled to receive the information contained in the Account Register. In the budget and financial (tax) commission, the draft law was examined and supported for further progress - first reading. I call on you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Account Register Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U68	24 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U69	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 24 September this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U70	This draft law is also part of the above-mentioned legislative package and concludes. It provides that the Ministry of Finance, which is the competent authority for providing support to the European Anti-Fraud Office, is entitled to obtain the sensitive information held by the credit institution. In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the draft law was examined and supported for further progress. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U72	Like the two previous draft laws, 24 September 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U73	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U74	Hello, dear colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”” (No. 723/Lp13). In the spring of this year, the Covid-19 crisis enabled the Latvian public authorities to speed up the introduction of remote service. In May of this year, the Latvian government commissioned the ministries to assess which of the digital solutions introduced during the emergency situation would be useful to maintain after the end of this situation as a permanent alternative. And this is one of these solutions. A large part of the Company Register services are already online. As you can read in the annex to this bill, 70 per cent of applications were already processed electronically in 2019. Similarly, the regulatory framework has not so far determined the existence of on-site service channels and therefore no specific changes are necessary in order for this to take place at a distance in the future. Documents will be submitted electronically and by post or on-site in the Register of Enterprises in paper format as before, but without additional involvement of the Register of Enterprises staff. However, it is necessary to waive certain services which were intended to be provided on the spot. The specific amendments concern the on-the-spot certification of the signature in the Register of Enterprises; such services would no longer be provided by the Register of Enterprises. As the Register of Enterprises is the holder of 13 registers, it will be necessary to carry out a number of changes in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations and also in the Commercial Law in relation to the same issue - certification of signatures. The Legal Commission has examined this draft law and is asking for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U75	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U76	Dear President of the Saeima. Mrs. Voika! I like some of the things that the Group is doing for Development/About! . And also this probably... Mrs Voika, if you're talking about this, then I trust you that it's a good thing. If you said to me, “Linda, you need “for”!” , we would discuss if there were any questions, but in the final, I know we would come together to some good solution. And so on. What do I have concerns about here? If now there's some kind of good thing you've brought... I don't know who's brought you, but you talked about it, Inese. However, if Latkovsky intervenes in this right case again with his YOUNG UNITY, then I am concerned that this law will not be necessary at all, because simply there will be no companies in Latvia. So what are we going to register? Then we actually... Let's waste our time now to make a law on businesses. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What are you going to do, Mr. Latkovsky, to register with your attitude? Which companies, where do they come from? Who's going to be those investors? Those investors will be those who from your foreign... The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, however, is under your authority, ONY? Those who don't understand at all... made such a bardaque in issuing visas! We'll talk about it, it's got some time. There, by the way, Mr. Asheraden, your colleague, who was very helpful... Thank you very much again for that. But I don't know just what you... What are you going to register? What are they going to be for companies? Those who take those old tanks for us, what is the Minister of Defence buying from somewhere? What will it be, Mr. Latkovsky? You think it's all right. You need to think. Well, what could they be for companies? What ideas... Is that so? There's absolutely no idea how... Well, company “How to steal the country even more... Well, it could be. Then someone else. Let's say, such a company - SIA "Who's the last to turn off the light at the airport". Well, that's it. ‘ How do we live next when the last leaves” - one could also be registered again... ( Internouncing call.) I'm gonna have twelve minutes to enjoy this time's triples... fantastic... simply to dream, Mr. Latkovsky, with you and with the YOUNG Unity. What are you going to do to register? What are we going to register? No, now we've got a... We've been completely new since today... a new register created - “Latvian traitor double”! You are the first on that list now, Mr. Latkovsky. A strong first place is in yours, with all due respect! All due respect first! It is not always possible to be the first if. Mr. Gobzem knows how hard it is to run to always be the first. Aldi, that's it. You got the first one today. Congratulations! List... in such an honor list as “Latvian traitor double” to be the first - sacred thing! Now that you walk through those shops and those cafes, I think you won't let it in there, so you'll have to register something for you if you want to eat outside the house. My own... It's like it's there, Resurrection... Mrs. Reize-Ozola? How is it - Members can register something at all? To register for time can... set up your own. You can't be on the board. Or... Is that so? What's up? Can you make yourself a Member now? Who knows? Can Members do nothing at all? Well, I don't know... Can register... Mr. Latkovsky, you will be able to register for yourself a restaurant... You can register... You will also be able to register a chemical cleaner to clean the suits. Then you will also be able to register your shoe store where to buy new shoes. That one problem will be that. The next problem will be that no one wants to work for you. As you do, I don't know. Could take some labour from abroad, but there again, the National Association... I understand, Mr Dombrava, your position, it's okay. We will discuss this - and that is normal. I'll tell you my thought, you own, but that's a different subject. Foreigners... Mr. Latkovsky, you're in the company register that's open... in those laws... That's right, well, don't work because they're just not gonna be here. In your locals, you will be betrayed. Those who have not learned how to speak Latvian and have lived here for many years will not be able to work because they have to communicate with clients only in Latvian. You'll have to work for yourself. You just have to work for yourself in all your companies... Oh, no, you cannot work because you are a Member, Members cannot work. You can't work for free either. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “He will not come!” ) No, well... Well, it won't, that's it. The question is, what are you going to do? With this attitude you will simply be naked, neither eat nor drink. What are you gonna do? No, I'll look at this, I'm out of my interest. Just don't put off that Member's mandate, because pearls like you, Mr Latkovsky, are rarely present, but you are really a pearl. Well, fantastic! Yeah... Well, this... As English says... Mrs. Moore, I'm going to translate... in English is such a saying... Mr. Latkovska, you made my day! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “Latvian... !” ) You have done everything to make this day beautiful, beautiful, so beautiful! I'll go home in the evening, turn on my favorite song and the self-degrading wand for you. Just great! Mr Latkovsky, come to the tribunal and tell Mrs Voika what exactly you are going to register there with the attitude you have towards doing business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U77	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U78	Mrs. Moore, smile at least. But there's nothing to smile about. I'll start with a little introduction. Yesterday I go to auction.lv and watch - Riga City Council auctions Vecmilgrāvis, 1st line 53, Riga, an internal courtyard building, which is a kindergarten building in principle (you can build a kindergarten in the courtyard)! You can all check. It clearly shows that children in Latvia are not born or will not be born. Why are they not born and not born? Because we have Latkovsky. (Laughter) Latkovsky doesn't want money in our country. No, he wants to get in, but only to get in his pockets, not to have money in all people. How does he want it? I'll show you how he wants it. He has a connection with the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission, and he is a great defence specialist there. And it's all... This whole thing... No Landguard... weapons have not been able to distribute, but old scrap for hundreds of millions... Clearly, he bought just for one reason, so he could put something in his pockets. Go on. Why don't children be born and born here, and why don't companies be formed here. Because... All these Covid-19 times of crisis, not we had the opportunity... Yes, we had the opportunity to reduce the public sector (but it was not reduced!) , which for the whole of this half-year has actually been paid on paid leave. In time, entrepreneurs and people in the private sector have fought for their own living. At this time, it has been assumed that the Register of Enterprises will reduce the channels through which companies will be able to register. Its mark is very clear - companies in Latvia do not want to register, so the number of these channels should also be reduced. Instead of getting Facebook, Google and other companies registered here in Latvia... What's he doing? He's voting against business! He is voting against you, Latvian society! And that's why today there's a bill that the Register of Enterprises will now be less able to... less will be ways to register companies. Because it's obviously the whole kind of Unity... That's... the idea of having few companies in Latvia. If we look at Prime Minister Kariņš, who is from Unity and who says that he has colorful and beautiful eggs and lots of money... If we look at how he visits companies - the only company he's gone to, his "happy field" is sponsor of Unity. Kariņš doesn't come to other companies that are fighting here in principle or that have already finished fighting for their survival. Latkovsky doesn't go anywhere. It is only politicalism, and that is all. Therefore, this draft law is, of course, a clear sign of the closeness of the business end in Latvia. This mark is clear for another reason. Why does A Unity do this? I mean, it's not the people of Latvia who want to be united... The aim of the Unity is to meet larger kings, because then we can be proud that we have Dombrovskis there in some kind of commissioners. It's like in Soviet times... Dombrovskis is, in fact, exactly the same as Pugo was in Soviet times. Pugo was in all positions in Moscow. In all positions! And Dombrovskis is currently in the European Union, too. All positions are placed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U79	Mr. Gobzem, come back to the bill!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U80	This is about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U81	This is not about the proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Voika: “What is the proposal? First reading!’ ) Please refer to the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia””. First reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U82	Mrs. Moore, you have to learn to listen! You need to learn to listen!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U83	Mr Gobzem, I call on you to speak about the specific draft law. If you don't do that, you're gonna have to turn off a microphone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U84	Then it won't be the first time you turn off a microphone for me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U85	Please speak about the specific draft law – “Amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia””.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U86	I'll finish my idea. The idea here is: instead of exporting business... It is therefore necessary to reduce the number of channels in the Register of Enterprises, where to register... Mrs. Moore, listen carefully. The number of channels that need to be reduced... Read it in that bill! You see it on your computer screen. That is why the only thing you are exporting is your civil servants to Europe. Just like with Pug in Soviet times, it is now with Dombrovskis. I hope that Mrs Murniece understands that too. That is why this amount is also being reduced. Therefore, Latvian companies are being destroyed. Because that's the way you prefer those gentlemen you serve. Your gentleman, unfortunately, is not the people of Latvia, Mr. Latkovsky! And you don't have to sit here and make make up! You're supposed to come and go at the podium...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U87	Talk about the bill! On the bill, Mr. Gobzem! Draft law “Amendments to law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia””. Please talk about the specific draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U88	Mrs. Moore, you listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U89	We all listen very carefully right now. Talk, please, about the specific draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U90	Mrs. Moore, you have to listen... You have to put a mask, because it's the communion's time, and you have to listen to this whole talk.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U91	Okay, thank you. Please turn off the microphone for Member Gobzem! The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U92	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr. Latkovsky! ( Interface: “It’s not funny! ” ) This will be a quote - Oyars German... But - in relation to exactly what we are talking about at the moment - about companies... And actually... Also... Let's say, I... Right now... It took five minutes... I understand that you are not just a traitor, you are also a double. Why do I think so? So, Oyars Germany quote: If your friends in the woods are fighting well today, you can believe me safely -- the scars are cheating.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U93	Mrs. Liepaja, on the Register of Enterprises, please! We understand - mushrooms, mushrooms, rusts, forests and everything else... But, I remind you, we are in Riga, Parliament. Please refer to the specific draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U94	Yeah, yeah! You're about to understand the idea. There's only four more lines here, and then I'll tell you... The meaning of this citation: I. Zarins: “Let’s say it!” ) They have this job, believe, game ready: scratch the stalk, put the stick - mushrooms ready. Your quote, Mr. Latkovsky, huh? You put it in that tape... Is that so? Well, of course, you yourself serve your social networks.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U95	The bill, please, speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U96	Yeah, yeah, it's a bill. So, the bill... I was worried about... What companies... I have a question: if a man who is proud of the fact that he collects in the forest... Mushrooms, tomatoes, everything we see here in your tape... Follow me, follow me... you have just voted against VAT... exactly what you are reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U97	For the bill, please, Mrs. Liepiņa! I ask you to talk about the particular...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U98	Yeah, yeah! I'd just like to know if this... Yeah, I just wish this law on the Register of Enterprises... figure out... think of how to properly formulate those companies... Those little ones we don't even support at all... It's right there... Horror... will come for those taxes there... And now it should be like this... There were some limits too, I think... If its mushrooms or its berries were to be carried out much out of that forest, there, too, something had to be paid. You ask Mr. Latkovsky, he's a mushroomer, berryist - he'll definitely know better what he's... I... I believe you're honest that you don't bring so much out of here that everything... the whole country must pay you... You need to have an example, because you are a Member. So, Mr. Latkovsky, follow this Law on the Register of Enterprises - if anything isn't the case, then put it in the law... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Weight at the forest, huh? What else could be there? The cash registers could still be put on the forest. Well, you know better, Mr. Latkovsky, you spend a lot of time berrying, mushrooms... By baking the cakes, I hope with Latvian eggs - with the same eggs for which you have just not supported their VAT. But it's nothing! Well, can't the person pay 20 percent instead of 5 percent? Well, you can calm down.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U99	Thank you, Mrs. Liepiņa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U100	Well, Mr. Latkovsky, you understood me. We look forward to your proposals regarding this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U101	We got it. Thank you. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U102	The main thing is to hit the Moore in her speech so that she understands and does not turn off the microphone. Now it is similar to Pugo - Valdis Dombrovskis is in Brussels to not defend Latvian companies. And that is why we will reduce the number of channels through which companies will be able to register. Mrs. Moore, read it on your computer, it's written there! And put on a mask, because it's the communion time! Next, what I want to say about reducing the number of companies. You know, Mr. Latkovsky: when you did not support that VAT... and you didn't support companies today... That is why you now want to vote to reduce the number of channels! Imagine that formulation in itself – the Register of Enterprises is some kind of channel that goes on... Why the Register of Enterprises could not simply attract you? You're a "failure story"! "The story of success" of Latvia's centenary, which has not been seen at all! How many... Is that so? Hundreds of thousands of you have already moved your business to Estonia, Lithuania, Germany, Luxembourg, Finland, Sweden, America and are not yet known. This is your “failure story”! Then when Pugo-Dombrovskis was there, then there was a “success story” – simply expel people from Latvia. And what you're doing now... Linda Liepiņa said very well... what you're doing... The only thing you can do, and what you will probably be able to do after this Parliament, is to shout in your own... in that bathtub... or by mushrooming. It is better for you than to be a Member than to defend the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Latvia. Because I have not seen, Mr. Latkovsky, that you would have voted in one vote in favour of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Latvia. I have seen you always vote against. If you do not like the people of Latvia, why do you come to this work? Sit down? Get down in the chair? Think of channels in the Register of Enterprises? Mrs. Moore, I called that name! You can't turn the microphone off for me! And if we're talking about those channels, think better than the channels... not about how to cut, but how to increase, Mr. Latkovsky. Don't just think of foaming and mushrooms or blinking, or old scraps in the Ministry of Defence, where you can put in your pocket... and OIC... and everything else where... Together with Pugo-Dombrovskis you speak there with the “story of success”. Latvia is the poorest or one of the poorest countries in Europe. Thanks to you, Mr Latkovsky. After today's speeches you will be the most famous Latvian Member who does nothing for the Latvian people. And that's because it reduces the channels... Mrs Mūrniece, I recorded that you knew that I was talking about this subject and that you could not exclude me...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U103	Be... Please debate calmly. Please debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U104	But you listen! It's about the channels, it's about this bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U105	Debate on the bill, the bill!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U106	That is precisely about this draft law. Read it! Reduction of the number of channels in the Register of Enterprises... how to register companies. That's what I'm talking about all the time, Mrs. Mourniece. I'm also talking about Pugo-Valdi Dombrovskis all the time... and Latkovski, who wants to close all these channels. And want to close it because there is some hatred against Latvian people, hatred against people living in our country. It's something, I don't know... Mr. Latkovsky, I could recommend to you... By business you do not learn to do business, but maybe you could go to their mushrooms at the market to trade. That would be your first attempt to break into business. You know when you are pregnant, and then you should also go to mushrooms. Therefore, I call on the entire Latvian community to do this - VIABILITY with Latkovsky, Pugo-Dombrovskis, all the Asheradens... and send all the rest to the mushrooms. on 10 October to start this dispatch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U107	Thank you. It was about the Register of Enterprises. Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U108	Colleagues, I would like to remind you that this draft law is about modernising the Register of Enterprises by refusing on-site services. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U109	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 86, against - 3, refrains - 2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U110	The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U111	The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 October this year. Thank you. Time to break. Please call me! Please register the Members! The name of the Member, Martin Bondar, for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U112	Dear members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) Honourable members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! 10.35 A meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission begins in Colonel, which will be held in part remotely (those who want to come to the Commission, of course). Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U113	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U114	Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Māris Kučinskis (Dep. Kučinskis: “I am!” )... Yes, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Edwin Schnore and Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U115	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U116	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Commercial mortgage law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika. Mrs Voika, you have the word to report the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. To your attention the draft law “Amendment to the Commercial mortgage law”. It is related to the previous draft law – “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”” and it also provides for modernisation in the work of the Register of Enterprises, namely, the refusal of a service such as the certification of signatures in the Register of Enterprises. The Legal Commission supported it. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U118	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Commercial mortgage law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 50, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U119	The deadline for proposals is 16 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U120	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Administration of Prisons with Special Service Steps in the Law on Service Implementation”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U121	Hello, colleagues! The draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and the administration of prison places officials with special service grades in the law on service progress” provides two clarifications for the leave of officials from the service. First, an official shall be removed from service in respect of employment in another post if there is a prohibition on joining the post. And the second is that an official may also leave the service during a temporary incapacity if he is called to criminalise or has been punished for a deliberate criminal offence. The draft law is supported by the Commission. I call for this to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U122	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Progress” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U123	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U124	20?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U125	1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U126	21?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U127	No, no. 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U128	1 October. Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U129	Hello, dear colleagues! We are examining the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Safety of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events” (No. 321/Lp13), first reading. ( Interface: ‘ Read! ’) ) Colleagues, this draft law prohibits the use of the so-called Georg tapes at public entertainment and festivals, as well as at meetings, moves and pickets. Forbidding meetings, moves and pickets... use of Georg's tapes in public events would limit the expression of ideologies that are considered a threat to Latvia. In view of Russia's expansion in Ukraine and its totalitarian ideology regarding the former republics of the USSR, Latvia has reason to see sufficient real threats to its democratic system and security. According to the applicants, the aim of the draft law is not to ban the military awards of the Russian Empire and the USSR, but the band of George, who has become a general symbol of the components of the military award. The term ‘ Georga lente’ is considered to be the most appropriate, as it is the most widely used term for stripes which are black and orange and its symbolic meaning is unambiguous. That is clear. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs decided to conceptually support this draft law and to further improve it to the next reading in the work of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U130	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U131	Dear colleagues, I think that the importance of symbols for different people and different groups is a very interesting subject for academic discussion, but hardly - for debate in the Saeima. I'm not going to talk about it. Nor will I talk about the fact that, however, a certain restriction on freedom of assembly is being proposed. Although this is indeed minor this time, proportionality should be assessed. In my view, the main weakness in this proposal is that we do not really know what we are going to ban. Is there a legal definition of George tape somewhere? We discussed it a lot at the committee sitting, and my honourable colleague, Izalnieks, on my direct question: what is George's tape? - he said... Well, there's all kinds of descriptions in Russian Wikipedia... there is quite clear of it. I'm sorry, colleagues, but I don't think that Russian Wikipedia is really a good point of support for Latvian legislators. Personally, I really have a very negative attitude to carrying George's tapes today in Latvia. I emotionally fully agree with the applicants, but I do not believe that we can ban it, because our law enforcement authorities, the police are working, well, brilliantly, I would say, because we practically do not have serious incidents, violence against the police... violence at mass events and so on. Unlike some neighbouring countries, this looks particularly good. And we're just gonna make life difficult for our police, because we're putting the same burden on us to determine whether in this case... whether or not this provision of the law is applicable or not, because I would remind you that it contains words... The current provision contains the words ‘also in a stylised manner’. We don't know what George's tape is, but what George's tape is in a stylized form - that's what I mean... Some respectable colleagues, for example, burned dresses, because they considered their dresses to be similar to George's ribbons in a stylized way. Well, it's a personal thing. Do you really ask our police to do what we don't know for ourselves what... It's not good, it's an expression of disrespect. Several police representatives referred to this at the commission meeting. Although there were other points of view: “Well we will manage... “ And the last one. I think it is a very good gift to those who want to provoke mess, to provoke violence. So, colleagues, I call on you to vote 'no', because indeed, we cannot now vote in favour of what we cannot legally define ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U132	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U133	Dear colleagues, The attitude towards George's tapes and their prohibition or prohibition is a matter of our self-esteem, because if it were just a multicolored simple tape, it would be a completely different speech. But look at this symbol in general also as a historical symbol, and it should be recalled that this tape was created in the 18th century in the Russian Empire, which, as a result of the military activity (in 1796), had occupied Vidzeme, occupied the people of Latvia. At the end of the 18th century, the whole territory of Latvia was in the hands of the Russian Empire, there was exposure to the population, their resurgence, which continued in the 19th century. And we were taken away from the natural space that we are now calling the European Union. It's violently taken away. And in this room, Caesar Katrina taught her George... St. George's Order along with this tape for those Russian officers who fought against the Turks. Thus, the Russian Empire stretched over a very large area, wanting to conquer as much land as possible, and therefore both the Order of George and this tape of George were a direct symbol of the empire. For Latvia this empire policy brought nothing good, but bad, and we could get rid of this empire only in 1918 by restoring the Republic of Latvia and fighting our independence in the Latvian War of Independence. During World War II, propaganda was restored to this tape, which was used both in the 18th and 19th centuries in the calamities. Yes, with a different name - the Guard tape - but in the same yellow-orange presentation, as it was with the cara horde, and it should be recalled that these really are not simple colors, but the yellow-white-black flag was the official flag of the Russian Empire between 1858 and 1883. So that this yellow-orange color comes from the flag of the Russian Empire... and the black color comes from the flag of the Russian Empire. They are not simply innocent colors in a nice palette of color as in Purvitis' paintings. During World War II... These colours were also used in the Slave Order and in the medal “For victory over Germany in the Great Parental War 1941-1945”. For Latvia The Second World War did not bring freedom, as you know well. Our country's independence has not been regained. The parliamentary declaration on the occupation of Latvia of 22 August 1996 points out exactly that. In the end of World War II, the USSR renewed its occupation regime in Latvia, and it was in 1944, in 1945, that the Communist regime made more repression than, for example, 1949. They are not just popular scientific claims. When you go to the National Archives of Latvia, you can see certain documents, archive cases, cards of more than 80 thousand people who were repressed in 1944, 1945 as a result of the secondary communist occupation. So these Orders... Glory of the Order and... victories over Nazi Germany... carriers with their zar symbolism in this empire policy also symbolised the Second World War... without giving the Republic of Latvia its independence and subjecting our country to the years of occupation, until 1991. This should be taken into account when voting on this tape. Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U134	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U135	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. I voted against the ban on the use of George’s tape for public entertainment and the security of public events... measures. And then on the commission... Mr. Neighbours remembers. I hope you remember. I was very clear in my motivation... Mr Janson, you certainly remember. There's no Mr. Janson, I don't see. There was a clear motivation why I voted against. Of course, then in the public space appeared - Liepiņa “to”. No motivation. And it's normal because in the public space it has to be presented that Liepaja is about Russians. How's that... Now I... The national association, I have a question for you: why not propose that you ban these George belts at all? In general! If we do something, we do so properly, because now this is neither this nor this. Yeah... Now for a small derogation. I got those tapes, too. Even if we could find facts in history, maybe... Well, the meaning of that tape is completely different from what he explains... Its history has been interpreted so much and so on. But not about it... But if we don't look and just look at George's tape, so... as much as its orange tape is embarrassed... I am personally deeply, deeply disgusted - just like Sandra Kalniete's dress, which she then burned for time. Well, that was something... such a ritual must be carried out with a dress. No, well, beautiful... Okay. So for Liepaja, George's tape hates all the luggage that comes with her. You are now saying in this bill that you will ban that George belt at that event. So there's a place for the event, Mr. Dombrava. Let's... Let's take the river Daugava, but no longer a bridge... The Vanch Bridge is no longer the venue of the event, nor is it the bridge (Interface: “A stone!” )... Stone bridge... I mean, the October Bridge. I know how... That's crazy! It was in old times. Stone bridge. And now imagine: this is an event, the police are doing their job in a colossal way, they are monitoring everything. Everything is as it does, no one has a tape in the place where the event takes place. What, though, is happening on the bridges? And it happens on the bridges that there's just, well, all those George tape fans standing with flags, driving cars around the venue of the event... Well, George's tapes like big flags. Everyone is dressed, dressed in the dresses of Sandra Kalniete George - full program! They can do it by law, can they? Well, that's it. ( Internouncing call.) Who's "for now"? Why do we have... Is that so? Why if we want to do something, why do we have something “for the time being”, why can’t you immediately? Well, why should we spend our time? If you hate those tapes as much as I do, and I hope it is... Well, maybe I hate much more if I do. And I'm not talking about different aspects of history, because there are people who have written to me very long letters, why they (and they are, by the way, Latvian people)... Why do they love these George ribbons. And there's a whole family story, a family story. I am not a historian, I can't argue, I'm just talking about my attitude towards George's tape without looking into it. If you bring a normal offer - we do not ban the people who drive a car in Latvia and where Georg's tape is attached to the driver... Stop! No in Latvia! - Mr. Dombrava, that's a very different story. This is the other piece of law I see putting on my shoulder. ‘ Ahah!’ The neighbor will run, definitely say: “We banned George’s ribbons! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You don't forbid anything. It'll be full! You're gonna ban... Those to whom that George tape means... They don't know their own history, but it's important for them to put the tape on it, because it's a symbol of 'no' - against what you're doing. Although you, the National Association, are doing a good thing in a way, perhaps not always a fair thing, but a good thing. They will be furious on you, and they will begin to wear 10-20 times more of their tapes, and then it will already be terrible, it will indeed already be a threat, so that there will not be any real conflict. I hope you understand what I am talking about. George's tape hates me. If you want to ban it, ban it altogether, but I will not support this but I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U136	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U137	Thank you to Ritvar Janson for his historical insight into the band of George. My personal opinion... In the Commission, we listened a lot to the parties involved: representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the municipal police, the State police. It was true that for them one question was at the very beginning: "How will we distinguish what is George's tape?" And it was some kind of sitting two, maybe three. At the third meeting, one of the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior pointed out that I had a band of George - this slip. Whatever you want, that's clear. I look at my stick and I don't see that George tape there (it really is a coincidence that I have the same stick again today). And then with good reason, I asked the question: “But how will you define... I don't know, love? What is love? You have a legal term for “love”?” Well, there's no such term. Everyone understands how he has grown up, how he understands it. Everyone has an understanding of it. Is it to take care of the other person, to respect him... Each of them has its own love. On George's tape, in turn... I think it's all clear. If we're talking about a stylized George tape, we're not talking... We are not talking about certain tones - specifically such orange or specifically such black - and these proportions here... colour. We are not talking about this. We are talking about a ban on the stylised form of the George tape in events, pickets, moves. In their machines, HARMONITORs will be able to continue hanging these tapes in the mirror. This draft law does not apply to it. That's what it is. You'll be right next to your breast, go to the store to buy the milk. ( Interface: “And borrow a stick! ” ) That is the case. At the moment, however, we have already banned the use of fascist symbolism... There will be no need to go after milk too. We can't go with some symbols of the totalitarian regime of the Soviet Union... We can't go to pickets, we can't go along the streets either. This law has already been passed. Here is the first reading. In the Commission, we will draw up a draft law more specifically. But democracy is not lenient. Yes, I think the use of this symbol humiliates our country. It does not need to be used. If someone uses it, there's a penalty. Are you rich? Pay! Every time more. Like in Ukraine. You need to protect your country, and that's the love you have for your own country. I think this should be the case. State Police, Local Government Police, Ministry of the Interior at the end realized that the word “love” cannot be defined and that it would be easier to define George's tape. With the promise of doing this at second reading in the committee, we will continue to look at this and bring this definition concretely, so that any user of the law - in this case from the police - can know exactly what he needs to do if the event sees the use of such atribotics. I would ask for support for this draft law and for the next items on agendas 26 and 27. These two are linked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U138	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U139	Dear colleagues, In the morning, a little picket took place at the Saeima. Let us imagine: if there were 50 people in this picket holding a red flag with a white circle and a black swastic on the top, I think, especially Mr Cilevičs and the compatriots, it would be absolutely unacceptable and humiliating that something like this could happen in Latvia. We recognise this as a rule that such symbols are prohibited in Latvia. It has also been accepted with difficulties and great opposition that the symbolism of the Communist regime is prohibited. In this case, we are talking about the symbol of modern imperialism, which has caused many sufferings in Europe: thousands of people have been killed using this symbol... has lost their relatives thanks to these mercenaries who have fought in Ukraine. I think that, in this case, we need to understand that the use of George's tape is different in different parts of the world. In Uganda or Argentina, it is likely that a person who has fixed George’s tape does not have any special resonance. In the Eastern European region, in Northern Europe, it is a concrete symbol with a specific message that creates a disagreement and that largely marks Russia's sphere of influence. Where this symbol is allowed, where it is widely used, it is the sphere of influence of Russia in one way or another. Where this symbol is not common, it is not. Mrs. Liepaja, I agree with you. We need an absolutely much broader ban. We have been trying to do this, on the part of the National Alliance, at least since 2014, by submitting a number of initiatives to the Saeima, but there is always a member of the Saeima or a group that is beginning to discuss colour tones, is beginning to discuss yet other folly and, as a result, does not allow this draft law to go to the final reading. If we all voted here today by all 100 Members of the Saeima to ban these George tapes, then that would be a complete basis... a legitimate basis for further development of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs... the commission itself to draw up draft laws which would impose a complete ban on these symbols in public spaces. That would only be right. I therefore call on all 100 Members to vote in favour of this ban instead of 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U140	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U141	Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that there are enough people in the hall who can play in isolation. The zolman has a saying: “If there is nothing to play, there is nothing to play!” Really, we don't have something to talk about more serious?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why, in that case, we are not talking about the fact that we should adopt a law on love, how we try to define Mr. Perhaps it would be more important to make a law on common sense, and perhaps to try to turn it on again? We are talking about tapes, about everything else, about history, by the way, in a rather interesting interpretation. In this case, we should for a long time ban everything coming from Sweden, including the Swedish flag, because it was Sweden that sold this territory, now called the Republic of Latvia, to the Russian Empire. It was sold. But that's history. Talking about colors - why don't we ban everything related to red color? Why should we not also allow such an interpretation that, let us say, all these George belt carriers are Russian supporters and therefore identifiable in this way? If we ban this matter, we will make the work of the Security Police more difficult, because this is a symbol that shows that these people are the enemies of Latvia's independence. It has already been said that, here, they are supporters and so on, and so on. What are we talking about? It's stupid, dear people! They are extremely foolish, because nothing will change from it. When fascist symbolism was mentioned, there was a decision by the international tribunal of Nuremberg about it, not at all. I call for this kind of foolishness not to be supported and for serious things that are really important and necessary for the people, the people of Latvia, and that do not make us international view of the last idiots. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U142	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U143	Dear colleagues! My speech will consist of a bit of jokes and a little serious part. If we are talking about the joke, which is even this bill. I look all day long at Mr Izalnieks, who is sitting next to Mr Dombrovskis today. Remembering how Mr. Izalnieks used to look there on Mr. Dombrovskis, today all day... Look in the face of Mr Izalnieks - there is a feeling that Mr Izalnieks is right next to you or Mr Osiņš is sitting down. (Laughter) All day long smile to the ears and the like. And it proves that in fact it's all like this... That's the kind of love for it all... That's the kind of love... But the problems with this bill are very big. If you accept it, dear colleagues, Sandra Kalniete will no longer be able to wear the dress (Interior: “She has already burned!” )... You can't wear a dress anymore. Latkovsky, who has already escaped because he understands that he... Maybe the last restaurant serviceman who hasn't heard a speech yet... He left for the last lunch to eat. He's gonna stick his own... orange black... Neither will he be able to wear anything else. These are the stupid things you're talking about. That's part of the joke. Now let's talk about the serious one. So today, the Saeima will accept... and I'll read it because I have so many texts from my head... because you already think I'm not too smart)... I will read that text simply. The Saeima will today adopt a bill that will ban, as I said, Sandra Kalniete from the New Unity to wear a dress for her own taste. But I want to write... Write and tell a longer story to think about. Since I've been in the Saeima, I've noticed one significant thing. Whenever one can vote against a nation, like today's VAT and cut-off benefits, then the coalition automatically puts something on the vote about Russia, its flag, its language or its tapes. It's like a law. After every voting series against the people, this exercise takes place, and so you've been fooling for 30 years, and so you've allowed it. For example, some pointless declaration of war or some pointless vote of tapes. Because then you can take and be patriots, scare society and divide it, not... The national association, today you have not voted in favour of either a reduction in VAT on food or a reduction in the end-of-life benefits... Which one you want to claim now. You didn't vote there. You just needed tapes. And that's your game. After theft of the state, secret purchases and refused end-of-life benefits, there will be another vote to prohibit Sandra Kalniete from wearing a dress. You have understood that it is a vote on George's tapes. By the way, as I said, it will be difficult times for Member Latkovsky of the New Unity. That's why we're gonna have to change the stick. If you follow my speeches and my recordings in social networks, you will notice that I am not 80 or 100 years old, and that I am indifferent to all these issues that do not mean anything to prosperity and prosperity, described in previous paragraphs. You have certainly also noticed then that my understanding of patriotism is based on fulfilling the promises and voting for what the people really need: support, real financial support. Finally. You have certainly noticed that George's tapes have never been a matter of my agenda and will not be, because they are indifferent, but I would like to recall some facts for all the screams who take the vote on this impeachment vote in power. The Cross of St. Juris or the Sign of Excellence of the Order of St. Juris Wars, or the Cross of the Order of War, was an award to military figures in the Russian Empire – sub-headmen, soldiers and mattresses. It was an award for a special heroism in the war or for outstanding merits in the military service of the country. Created 27.07. ( 13) February This award was to be carried at the left side of the chest, hung in an orange - black stripe. And now listen carefully to those who have received this award. Number one. Oscar Kalpac. You'll have heard a word like that. In September 1915, she was awarded with the fourth class of the Order of Saint Juris. Oskar Kalpac, as we know, has also received the Order of the War of Lacples. Number two. Voldemārs Ozolas. You may not have heard, but thanks to Voldemar Ozola's brain and the ability of the battle strategist, we have a free state: the operational and political activities of Voldemar Ozola have played a very important role in ensuring victory in the battles of Cesis and during Bermontiad. In the battles of World War I Voldemārs Ozolas was awarded with the Order of St. Jurs of Russia. Go on. Number three. Colonel Friedrich Briedis has carried a George belt, among other things, the recipient of the Lacples War Order. So several officers from Kurzeme and Vidzeme were awarded with the Order of Saint Juris. In addition to the cavaliers mentioned by me in the Lacples War Order, the following people are also mentioned: General Kalniņš, Colonel Skujiņš, General Gopers (by the way, with the third class on fighting in the Ložmetėjkalns), General Clinton, Colonel Kuķis, Colonel Radzins and others. All the most famous Latvian soldiers have received an order, which is hung in the George belt. ( Internouncing call.) What do I mean by all this? Your disgusting George's tapes were also worn by the most bright military officers of Latvia, and there is no question about colours and tapes here. This is just an example of how some colors are made of PR for your viewers and listeners to rinse your brain. But perhaps it is time to stop taking on the minor, because George’s tapes are not an important issue. A key issue is poverty, which is in Latvia. Stop being sheep! Stop being victims of manipulation and simply ignore it all, because these manipulations do nothing else than a tool for mortgaging people. These manipulations have nothing to do with history. It's just a PR that uses all sides of your own... for your PR purposes, but who has no connection with how you live today, what is VAT for you, OIC, what is your benefits during the Covid-19, how much is in your wallet and how you get off tax on your salary. And by the end. I recently had a conversation with a wise man. ( Insight: “With yourself? ”) ) He said: “We need to protect the brain, not the language. Protecting the brain protects the language. And that's it." What about us? We protect the language, the tapes, and we don't know anything yet, but we don't care. We let them leak. We are breaking down the education system. We sent the business... We close the bank accounts. Let people leave Latvia - hundreds of thousands. We're guarding tapes, we're guarding slogans. We don't protect the brain and people. We are not talking about essential things. And the National Union voted today in two votes... Your voices have been divided, Mr. Izalnieks. Despite the fact that you are smiling all day long, as if you were Ūsiņš or you were sitting next to Mr Dombrovskis. Your group has distinguished that we do not have reduced VAT on food and that our people, for whom it is already difficult, will be deprived of their benefits. It has been designed by the State Revenue Service. And that's your face, or false patriotism. You are on the ladder today with how patriotically you will now stand on the tapes. And you, Mr. Iesalnieks, have a red-white-red flag, but you also do not mind that your group voted against the Latvian people again today and for the brain drain from Latvia, when people leave, when they move their businesses elsewhere. Therefore, dear society, it is high time we understood and recognised - let us protect the brain, protect our country, our language and never allow the victims of manipulation and PR to be victims. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “On October 10, everyone... !” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U144	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U145	Hello, colleagues! Several Members do... Both today and at the commission meeting, they thought that they do not know (or the public does not know) what we intend to ban here with these two draft laws. Just now, there was a talk about the Order of Saint Juris. Then these two draft laws do not speak of a ban on carrying the Order of Saint Jury or any other Order. This bill (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunovo and the deposit (See I. Zariņš's transcripts.) is specifically mentioned by George’s tapes. In order for colleagues to understand what we are trying to ban with this draft law, I will show you some photographs. Here. ( Shows photos on your tablet.) First photograph. Another picture. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: “I too!” ) Another photograph. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “You give the police to know!” ) For those who may not be divorced: all these photographs show the so-called green people in Ukraine, Crimea and Eastern Ukraine who had not been decorated with the recognition marks of the Russian Federation. Their only sign of recognition was these George tapes. We're both here today... this and the following draft law must be voted, its attitude expressed, whether the symbolism of these terrorists is a place for political events in Latvia. I agree with Mrs. Liepiņa that we should also think if we... If Members express their clear will to ban this symbol from political action, then we must also think about banning this symbol in the whole public space. From 1 July this year, the Law on Administrative Penalty on Violations in the Fields of Administration, Public Order and Use of the State Language shall apply, where this norm on the prohibition of councils and Nazi symbols shall also be transposed. If, today and in all three readings, Members express their wish to ban this symbol... George's tapes in the public... in political measures, then I will also submit a draft law to incorporate this ban into the Administrative Penalty Act on Violations in the Field of Administration, Public Order and the Use of State Language. Thank you, colleagues. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Stepanenko: “How will this help... ?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U146	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U147	Dear colleagues, There are three things I would like to say to you, but before that I would ask you... Many people smile while sitting next to me... Mr. Iesalnieks, too. I call on him not to neglect it. So three things. First. Colleagues, if I hear now, as I listen to the debate, that the main reason to ban those Georges' tapes is the imperialist past with which Latvia was offended by the past, then I call for consistency and appeal to all the empires that have ever been offended by the territory of Latvia. I'm here for Mr. I'm... That may not have been the case. I don't know if you can see this flag. ( Shows photos on the tablet.) That's the German flag, colleagues. ( Interface: “We too, please, show me! ” ) All right. The German flag as such comes from the Republic of Weimar, but what is in the middle of the German flag is an eagle (Dep. A. Neighbours: “You with one tablet... ?” ) - imperialist German eagle, colleagues. Imperialist... Who had been inherited from Roman times. So if we colleagues follow this logic, then I... Let me ask you a question. What do you think of the German times? Is the German Empire, for example, as Mr Dombrava said... Could it be that the German Empire also killed a few thousand people? Was it completely without any bloodshed? Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to think about what leads... to what will result from the hunting of the ghosts of the past. If you are already seeking to treat empires, you should seek to treat all empires. Against the Germans! I think that the Italian symbol of today's country can also be found quite a lot from the Italian Empire. Here a colleague Mr Dolgopolov mentioned Sweden. The empire, too. He also once ruled in the territory of Latvia. Then we will also go further - we will also ban some symbols of Sweden, imperialist symbols. Point two, colleagues! I think many of you are certainly mothers and fathers. What happens, colleagues, when do you ban your child from doing anything? You say no, you can't! What happens next? What happens when you ban something, but if it's deep... What a desire to express themselves. Then by removing the symbol of their symptom, you will not solve anything; you will only multiply their inner impulse, from which all this grows. It is the only one you will be able to... what you will be able to achieve with this. And the third thing. I have a call, fellow Members, for you to stop hunting this ghost of the past, by eliminating this imaginary or half-conceived threat. I call on you to start building a country where everyone... Every citizen of this country, regardless of nationality, would be proud to demonstrate the symbols of that country. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U148	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U149	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Members! Mr. Dombrava and Mr. Iesalnieks! In my previous speech, I told you, and there's nothing to lie about those George's tapes - I really hate them. Then I'll tell you what my family thinks of George's tapes. Well, of course, my closest, who is also my constituents. And we could expand my election range. Now I'm going to try it as simple as possible. I'm telling you... For me, of course, they ask, what's there for a steak with those George tapes? You're there... What are you... Why 'no'? Why are they all dressed? What's back with those tapes? There's no one to talk about? Well, something like some said here. I tell you, and then my mom, my sister... My sister's ever a guard. Well, we have a normal patriotic family - everything's fine there. They now say, “But listen, there is a short memory for those people who are in that Saeima? Don't they remember how it was in those years when we were forbidden to wear red-white tapes, and someone... “ No, no, Mr. Amber, I know you must say something, I’m just telling you. We can long and long... sit down and talk about this issue with various examples, convince each other how better... How... So on. But I'm just telling you that there's a kind of... This is my family's view of the matter. I say, I understand... I was eight years old when Dad first showed me that he can flowers... flowers on the tomb arranged in red and white. And then he told me - in the eight years - that there is a flag of Latvia. So everything's fine with it. Just we're talking about colors now, we're talking about colors. For years, we lived under the red and white ban. All this came to an end - we know very well. This resulted in our regaining independence. It ended with... May 4th... and so on, so on. Now that's a short memory. The logic is whether we really have to do everything now so that those people (and at the moment they are not as many with those orange tapes) can be reconciled to the level that I have described to you. Then there will be soon full bridges, yes. No, no, Mr. Dombrava, we can talk to... When you come with a proposal to ban it, let us talk, because I will be 'for', but there will be a whole category of my constituents who will say, 'This is crazy!' They're doing exactly what they did to us all... all Soviet Latvian time! You don't have to do that! Let those people... Don't give them a chance! Well, don't give me the chance to confrontation those people! Don't! Why can't we be smarter? Why can we Latvian patriots not be smarter than they were then? And there will be that debate. And, you know, when I have to make a decision, I'm with my whole heart and soul... I, like Linda Liepiņa, want to vote in favour. But I can't represent my personal interests here in the Saeima. I'm gonna have to find some kind of gold midway, and I don't know how I'm gonna have to talk to myself to at least my family to understand why I'm at the moment when there's a total ban when you... you will come with such a proposal... If you really say that you want it, you must come up with such a proposal. Let's stop it! No one can cross the border with George's tape! And then I'll have to talk to myself somehow. How will it be? Well, I hope that there will already be a broader discussion on this at that point. I just wanted to show you that there is also such an aspect and a view of things - why we are not smarter than those who deprived us of their independence at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U150	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U151	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! At first, I had no intention of participating in this profound intellectual discussion. However, when I hear that quite a number of people's Presidents, Members, Vice-Presidents of the People who are in this Chamber, one tape can offend their dignity, dignity and even more! - I think that the honor of the country is being violated, I wonder: how low should be self-esteem, self-esteem, so that a tape worn by another person offends you?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. All right, what it offends, I can't do there anything, but at least don't talk about the country! Don't speak in the name of the country then! And what the color, let's say, would be for Artus Šlipse - it may be very much about Artus himself, but definitely nothing about me - and where else about Latvia. When Jānis Isalnieks makes a pepper cumin in a form and places a picture of it on social networks during Christmas, it also shows something about Jānis Isalnieks... perhaps, but definitely not for me and not for the state of Latvia. Finally, I would like to say that I would very much like to wish all of us to live in a country in which we would not value people for tapes, tapes, dresses or gingerbreads, but would like to appreciate them as being strict in nature, principles, ideas and the ability to support each other and to move our country forward. And even more, I wouldn't want us to get to a country where we ban everyone from showing what he is, with the help of tapes, dresses or stickers. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U152	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U153	Hello, colleagues! I hope that every one of you has been at the Latvian War Museum. I hope that every one of you has seen an exposition dedicated to Latvian strifemen and Christmas battles. I hope you couldn't ignore one of the exhibits from World War I - the Latvian strifeman's chile, decorated by St. George's tape. The whole dispute, the whole discussion that is taking place here and that has taken place in the Commission, indicates that there is no understanding of history. Even the terminology you use is not true. For what you are about to ban is not a tape of the Holy Jur, it is a tape of the Guard. It's an absolutely different tape. But what is at our War Museum is the tape of St. Jur. And it really decorated the breasts of Latvian strife both during the war, in the struggles of freedom and then stored in their homes. I am a member of the legend's search unit for fallen soldiers. A year ago, in Ložmetējkalns, we highlighted the mortal remains of Latvian strifeist Jānis Skudras. He had a cross of Holy Jurs with the remains of the St. Jurs tape. What you want to ban is another tape - a tape that was restored by Stalin in 1941, when he was afraid of losing war. And the Germans were already standing next to Moscow. It was an attempt to encourage the Russian nation to enjoy the heroism it had during World War I. That is why it is necessary to specify in this law what you want to ban - the St. Jurs strip, which is related to the history of the Latvian strife and the state of Latvia, or yet the band of the Guard. Or do you want to ban the tape that decorated the Order of the Soviet Slava? Or the tape that decorated a medal about Berlin's being... Is that so? What, then, do you want to ban? I think it's a story about colors. All that happens here is a desire to fight a certain set of colours. I could still tell you how, for example, the strip of the Cross of Saint Juris is different from the strip of the Guard. Oh, by the way, there were still stripes of war sailors that they carried on hats. That's what you're going to do, too. But St. George's tape differs in color composition, its color was not orange, it was yellow... more yellow. Therefore, the national police are concerned about whether they will succeed in distinguishing between whether a person has specifically violated something if, for example, he walks with a mixture of colours, where he will not be black with orange, but black with dark yellow... I could also tell you why that kind of color blend is on this... from the beginning... St. George's tapes. It was related to war, it was related to the martyr of the Holy Jury. Dark yellow or orange - it's a fire color, black - it's a smoke color. These are two colors that accompany any war. When people shoot each other, when they kill each other. But it is also a symbol of the heroics of war - these two colors. And now about politics, not about history. I would like to turn to the Group's New Unity. Your party member, Mrs Kalniete, solemnly burned her dress, which was in a certain colour composition - orange with black. So, it's a story about colors? Well, I would like to turn to the New Unity once again, because another member of this party - Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere - is a red fanatic. She's very often here (Dep. I. Zariņš: “She is yellow black!” Medicines cause noise.) ... Even in the Bureau there is a bright red costume. And I would like to remind you that it was in such a red colour that the victory flag over Reichstag was fluttered on 8 May 1945. Well, what? So the next step is to ban the red color?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's deny Lībiņš-Egnere to walk in a bright red costume because, by not giving God, it symbolises the flag of victories over Berlin. Medicines cause noise.) , is it a symbol of Stalin's victory?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, YOUNG Unity, however, I hope you won't join the fairy tales about colors, because the best fairy tales in Latvian literature are "Freights About Flowers". Therefore, I call on you to think about really important things that are important for the Latvian people, our future and our development, rather than fighting with colours and fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U154	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U155	Hello, dear colleagues! We do not spend so much time when we talk about the development of the Latvian economy, but we talk a lot about two colors. I want to tell you one anecdotes, and it will also be about two things. Two presidents meet - the President of Armenia and Turkey. And the President of Turkey asks the President of Armenia: “Why do you use our symbol that doesn’t belong to you?” The idea was about the mountain of Ararath, located in the territory of Turkey, not in Armenia. And the President of Armenia said to him: “A why do you use a symbol that doesn’t belong to you?” As you know, the Turkish flag contains a symbol of a half-month which is not Turkey. We're also talking about something that doesn't belong to us... But it has already been proven historically... Georgie's tape - for courage, for victory... Strong people have been awarded its prizes. Let them bring those prizes! Because they, those awards, too, are being viewed by our young people. They also study, read the history of 1918, 1919... Go to Elizabeth Street - almost to the Ministry of Defence is a monument to Oscar Kalpak. He also had that Georgian tape, Georgie... Award... the order. So we remember it! And let us be honest with ourselves! You don't have to fight things that... where you can never win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U156	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U157	Colleagues! For more than an hour from this platform, we are invited not to spend time talking about tapes. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “Do not waste time! ” ) Yes, for an hour. It is not those who are on these bans, but those who are against it, who are coming up in the truce and trying to convince each other that there is nothing to waste time on it. Well, we don't have time! Let's vote! If you believe that the measures do not need such a tape, vote in favour! If you think it is necessary, vote 'no'. But I join in your own call, that we should not waste time on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U158	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U159	Dear President, Honourable Members! I just want to express my enthusiasm for the touching care that is expressed here not only about Latvia... The first world war officers, but also the Vlasov army, which used these symbols. A little comment about Voldemar Ozola, which some do not know. Voldemārs Ozolas, as historians and archives have revealed today, was an agent of the GRU sent from the Soviets to Russia to disorganize the fight against the Red - Bolshevik - troops of Stučka. He himself writes in his own memories (I quote): “I came to Latvia to fight, to organize trifles against the landside.” Landesvor was with the temporary government of Latvia at that time... and official Latvian troops were established with the signature of Kārlis Ulmanis, because there was simply no other. And the task of Ozola was to create fire and trouble between the landside, which was the Latvian army at that time, and the Estonian army, and the Estonian army... The bishop... to subordinate some parts of the Latvian military force. This succeeded in giving Bolsheviks time for several days of breath... arrange for the Latgale Front. The Latvian counter-intelligence service revealed this action by Ozola, he was expelled from Latvia and became the Communist General in Spain. Then, after the fall of the republic in Spain, he worked under the Communist armor of France. The Soviet authorities rewarded, did not forget these people... And all these still alive officers were either shot at the Soviets... Like General Goper or Colonel Kuķis... I mean, they've been killed in an annihilated way. However, Ozolas received a teacher’s place for his merits. He was allowed to read lectures and raise the new generation after the Second World War, and he was allowed to read lectures at the university. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Now to George's tape. Today, we can also compare the George belt with the thousands of years old symbol of the Indonesian fire. Well, that's a beautiful firecut, right? But, honourable Members, unfortunately, the situation is that symbols change their role in the relevant historical periods. The Nazis used this thousands-year-old sign - the Indo-European fire-crack - as a sparrow. And that's why we're not going to the national party today with this chasm on the flags and we're not carrying it around. But we don't know this sign from ancient Latvians... from song stocks or from some kind of... from folk costumes, from everything that has been historically... We do not use it in official national measures. The draft law is entitled ‘Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals’. And this is neither the Vlasov Army Act nor any other law... This is an independent state law of Latvia, which regulates public entertainment and holidays, not family celebrations. George's tape is not prohibited at the Family Celebration together with the Holy Jurs Cross, it can stand at home, and it can be shown to grandchildren. But we don't use it. And why don't we use it? Why can't the Members of the 'Conciliation' come and honestly say that it is... It is not just a symbol of Russia, it is a symbol of the restoration of the Russian Empire, because the Bolsheviks have always been active puppets. And remember the cross moves around the churches... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Holy Trinity... Sacrifices... Bolsheviks replaced Stalin, Lenin and Carl Marx... Then replaced Marks, Engels and Lenin... They active replaced the red star, they actively replaced their red flag, they actively replaced their sickle and hammer... replaced the flag used by the Vlasov army, which has now been declared official by Russia. And just the red stars, the sirp and the hammer are George's tape. And here are some and they say they don't understand... You know, it's a symbol! And, you know, the symbol of a famous battle! Well, let's not be stupid and let's not be funny here! I call for support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U160	The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U161	Dear colleagues, I will not talk about history as a whole, but I want to respond to my colleague Dombrava. Well, I didn't expect you, even as a long-time member of the Foreign Affairs Commission... Understand that reference is made to the ethnic origin of the opponent - well, it is not accepted in civilised society! Therefore, I have a direct request to you - please do not touch on this matter. Because really my whole family was destroyed here in Riga, Daugavpils. This is a deep personal question for me. And that's why I don't talk about it from the pub, I don't ask for anything. But you... On the other hand, you remember this tragedy twice a year, no more, on 4 July at the burnt synagogue... and every other year - also in Rumbula autumn... And that's it! All the rest of the days the Holocaust tragedy does not exist in public discourse. We are always hearing about other tragedies, which are truly great tragedies and which cannot and must not be forgotten. But yet more than 80,000 Latvian citizens have been brutally killed... Well, the memory of it exists only twice a year. Moreover, I regularly hear from you and some of your party members quite positive comments about those people who, well, do not say that they were involved in this tragedy, but it seems to have been indirectly supported, justified or remained neutral and silent about it, and did not object at all. And you think it's completely normal behavior and that these people are heroes. So my proposal is - let us not talk about it here in the Saeima, because it really is a deep personal question for me! I am ready to discuss it, but not by using my own parliamentary mandate. And I very much hope, however, that our debate will be conducted in accordance with the standards adopted in the civilised world, without referring to the gender, ethnic origin, mother tongue or certain externalities of the opponent in question. Come on. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U162	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U163	I would like to respond to Mr Kirštein. Mr. Kirstein! I think that, as you climb into the barn and remember the name of Voldemārs Ozola in the context in which you were speaking, you are blasphemying the country of Latvia in a way. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Kirštein’s intermediate call.) History, I will instruct you, Mr Kirštein, shows an indisputable fact that the decisive influence of Voldemar Ozola in the battles in Cesis and Bermontiad led to the creation of Latvia's state. That is the fact. Indisputable, irrefutable fact! If Voldemārs Ozola were not, then we would probably not have Latvia. And if you deny it, Mr Kirstein, you are blasphemying the country of Latvia. If you talk about history, Mr Kirštein, you really like to manipulate history in every way. Well, let's remember that Voldemārs Ozolas was the head of the Lacples War Order's cavaliers and Freedom Fighters Society "Legions" in Latvia! Lacples War Order cavalier! Unlike what you worship as a great leader in Latvia... which, by the way, was gay (and their silence is spoken by most of society)... Voldemārs Ozolas is the one we have to thank for having Latvia's country. And the fact that he has been subject to some sanctions at that time, nothing different... nothing is different from the political situation today. Today's political situation is exactly the same! For example, your coalition now gives itself various medals, you go to those receptions, you award yourself - each other - and you teach diplomas about "success stories" and everything else... And what are your big enemies at the same time? It is the opposition that speaks the truth. And that was the case at that time. Mr. Kiršteins, therefore, maybe we will stick to this crucial, decisive fact - he was one of the most intellectually powerful people in pre-war Latvia, a Latvian, a patriot of the state of Latvia, and he did many times more (I am not talking about you personally, but I am talking about the majority of whom you refer to in your speeches). Mr Kirštein, I call on you not to blasphemy the country of Latvia and those heroes for which our country exists at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U164	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U165	Many have already come to say from this troupe that it is not worth so much talking about this issue today and called for: we are voting! And I know why they say that. Because they see that their wicked plan is coming to light. Because today it is not about colours, about tapes; it is about the fact that a party is implementing its political business, that is, trying to divide Latvian society again. They are looking purposefully for how they can make... cause as many contradictions as possible within society as it is their business, it is their niche. The more fragmented the Latvian society will be, the more radical it will be, the more Latvian votes for the most radical Latvian party - the National Association. What they think about today - they think not about the future of the Latvian people, not about history, but about how - in a bad way! - to increase their political capital. Perhaps this is also due to the dramatic fact that you may have heard today, namely that the demographic policy taken under the responsibility of the National Union has suffered a crèche. This year, there will be a catastrophic situation - the lowest number of newborns in Latvia since the existence of Latvia. This is also your “success”! So you need to look now for ways to distract attention from all this event. And so you come here and try to find an opportunity to achieve this radicalisation. And that's what you're doing again in a clumsy way -- you're taking things that you can deliver differently, and only these different things... exactly, no matter how much it hurt someone, to make someone fear... in this way you teach. Why didn't you come here and tell me about George's tape that it was proudly worn by both Oskar Kalpaks and Briedis? That's not why you forgot to mention. Then maybe we'll ban them too... Is that so?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's your... Your Elek Bangerski (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “It’s right! Bangerski also!” )... He also carried this tape... From him, you took the slogan “All for Latvia!” . Then maybe we will also ban “All for Latvia!” on the same principle?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U166	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U167	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I must remind you that the Orders are not banned, the tapes are there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Colours! Colors are prohibited!’ ) And on behalf of the Commission I say that we will also proceed conceptually. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U168	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U169	September 22nd.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U170	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law “Amendment to law “On meetings, moves and pickets”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U171	Colleagues! Draft law “Amendment to law on meetings, moves and pickets” (No. 322/Lp13), first reading. This draft law is linked to the previous one - provides for an extension of the list of prohibited symbols to the so-called "Geors' tapes". Please support the draft law “Amendment to the law on meetings, moves and pickets” at first reading. And I ask you not to continue this debate as it has been until now - the entire previous hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U172	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Meetings, Steps and Pickets” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U173	September 22nd.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U174	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U175	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 574/Lp13) and decided to support it and direct it to the Parliamentary sitting at first reading. The draft law has been developed by the Ministry of Economics, and it provides for a clear separation of responsibility of each participant in the construction process, specifying the competence of the building board and the State Audit Office of Construction and improving the regulation of the construction process, therefore - to eliminate the identified uncertainties in the application of the Construction Law. The Commission has supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U176	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U177	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U178	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U179	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”. These amendments provide for the removal of the mandatory procurement component, but leaving the mandatory procurement. The discussions were therefore very wide-ranging. We were invited by various stakeholders; the ministries were represented by ministerial officials - from VARAM, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economics. Moreover, the issue was dealt with against the determination of these interests: the interests of one individual or OIC stations are against those of all societies, the interests of the economy as a whole. In the Commission, the draft law was supported for progress towards the first reading. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U180	The time allowed for the debate at first reading is 15 minutes. But it's six minutes to break. Mr. Zarins, are you going to have enough time to break? Mr. Zarins, you're going to have enough... Is that so? So, Mr. Zarins will have six minutes. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U181	What's happening around this bill... This will be the next moment of truth that will show what is actually happening around the OIC sphere - whether anyone is actually going to fight it, is really going to stop it or is just going to get a new cover. I think that this draft law... This draft law will be voted against at first reading by all those who have already taken part in the OIC and who are satisfied with the situation that we are currently in, for the time being. And those who think to create a new cover... they will have to demonstrate that they can solve something about this. Consequently, we are now in a position that we cannot support either side. Because, look, this draft law is now... as it is at present, it does not fight with this aphere. On the contrary! I think that today many people are keeping their thumbs for such a bill - in the way it is - to be accepted, because it really will give the opportunity to... above all, the possibility for all fraudsters, without doing anything, to simply claim compensation from the State. By means of such a draft law - as it is currently, now - we are creating such a legal basis. I assume that it is simply such a failure of their political parties. They have not understood what they are doing. They wanted to fight it, but they didn't really get there. Well, they don't understand. And so it would be very good if they came here to tell us what the real purpose of this draft law is. What do you want to achieve? Do you want this bill to make sure that there is a continuation, a new cover is created, or do you really want to fight it? Because depending on what your goal is... At second reading, we can really bring this bill together. And the phase you have created, which you have already strengthened with previous amendments... There's, in principle, a level of law... The Saeima legalized the OIK field - made legal, or the level of the law strengthened many things, which until now have not been stipulated in the law... on control, overcompensation and many other things. With this draft law, we could resolve all these things, sort them out, make appropriate amendments - professional, competent amendments - and really put an end to the OIC. But not in the version that this bill currently contains. That is why I would very much like to hear from the promoters of this bill... I would like you to come and tell you what you want to achieve with this draft law. Whether you wanted to make an empty, pointless show, knowing that such a draft law won't go further, or really you're ready to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U182	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U183	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I would just like to say that this is the first reading and therefore there is still an opportunity to table various proposals. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Do you promise it?” ) And then, colleagues, let us work on the Commission. Please support!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U184	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 27, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U185	The deadline for submitting proposals is 19 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U186	October 19th? Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 19 October this year. Time to break. Please register the Members! Name for Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U187	Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Inese Ikstena, Ieva Krapāne, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Edvins Šnore, Vita Anda Steela, Jānis Urbanovičs and Inese Voika... Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U188	Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U189	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U190	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues, present! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission we have examined and prepared for the first reading the draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Law”. The amendment provides for the exemptions laid down in Section 12(1) of the Corporate Income Tax Law... give the opportunity to use these facilities also for the state museum - a derived public person. The Commission supported the draft law for the first reading. I call on the Saeima to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U191	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U192	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days - 22 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U193	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U194	Hello! The budget and financial (tax) commission has worked very hard and examined the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers”. The draft law aims to ensure “higher regulatory or technical compliance” with the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force of the Council of Europe in the field of supervision of financial institutions. In the Commission, the draft law was examined and supported with experts. I invite you to do the same.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U195	Please call me! ( From the UK Group: “Not supported! ” ) Please call us! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U196	I'm sorry. But... that would be a clarification. Because there's been a technical error. (Applause) Thank you. So I clarified and told you that... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “I don’t understand anything anymore!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U197	Mrs. Benhen-Beeken! Please, let's start again! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “How - again?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Colleagues! On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U198	Once again, the substance of the bill. The draft law aims to ensure the full implementation of the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force of the Council of Europe, i.e. the Moneyval Recommendations in the field of supervision of financial institutions. The Commission examined and did not support this. Now, let us vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U199	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 38, refraining - 3. Draft law has been rejected. Draft law “On real estate in Brīvības iela 37B, Ogre, Ogre district, disposal for public needs”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U200	Hello, colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 8 September 2020, the draft law “On disposal of real estate in Brīvības iela 37B, Ogre, Ogres municipality, for public needs” was examined. The draft law is intended to dispose of real estate in Brīvības iela 37B, Ogre, Ogre district, Ogre general preschool educational institution “Cīrulitis” and Ogre Central Library building construction. The sale is the only way to achieve this objective. Property rights to the immovable property to be disposed of (with a total area of 8500 square metres) shall be secured to the owner of the immovable property to be disposed of (in the amount of the estimated shares) and to the owner of the immovable property to be disposed (in the amount of the estimated part of 1 The joint owners of Ogre Municipality were invited to participate in the meeting of the committee for determining the remuneration of Ogre Municipality, as well as asked for an opinion and arguments on each part... the remuneration calculated, information on concluded leases, other charges and other relevant information. By decision of 15 August 2019, the Municipality Council of Ogres approved the set remuneration of the immovable property to be disposed of, as well as informed the joint owners of the possibility to conclude an agreement on the voluntary disposal of the immovable property to be disposed of within 30 days of the receipt of that notification. The owner of the immovable property to be disposed of shall inform in his reply that he is prepared to enter into a contract for the voluntary disposal of his alleged interests. Information on the death of the owner of the immovable property to be disposed of has been received. No declaration of the set-aside case has been found, no possible heirs are known, therefore it is not possible to conclude an agreement on the voluntary disposal of the immovable property to be disposed of. As soon as the heirs of the owner of the immovable property to be disposed of are known, the amount to be paid to the owner of the immovable property to be disposed of will be paid to the heirs. When the municipality of Ogres acquires the real estate to be disposed of, the objective of common interest of the society will be achieved – the municipality of Ogres will have acquired real estate for the improvement of its administrative territory and for the education and development of its citizens. The Legal Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U201	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On real estate in Brīvības iela 37B, Ogre, Ogres district, disposal for public needs” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U202	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 22 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U203	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 September this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on airbones’, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U204	Hello, colleagues! The draft law "Amendments to the Law on Ģerbones" is one of the draft laws by which the Ministry of Culture, the government proposes cutting red tape. In particular, it is intended to remove from the law the norm on the approval of the coat of arms... the certificate of issue, because all the drones and the dates on which they were granted... decisions are already published, are available online as well as in a dedicated catalogue and therefore no specific certificate is required. The Legal Commission has examined this draft law and calls on the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U205	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Ģerbonis! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U206	The deadline for proposals is 28 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U207	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U208	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”. The draft law provides for damages for the provision of supply services. However, in order to carry out this delivery of press releases in 2021, prices must be set before the conclusion of the contract. The Commission is therefore asking for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U209	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U210	Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U211	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U212	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 21 September and second reading - 24 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U213	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 21 September this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 24 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Gauja National Park Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U214	We see the draft law “Amendments to the Gauja National Park Law”. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Gauja National Park Law” before the first reading. The draft law was designed so that forest owners whose forest property is located in the nature reserve zone of Gauja National Park, but the forest property has no approved forest management plan, could limit the spread of spruce octopus peel. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U215	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Gauja National Park Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U216	24 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U217	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Judges”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, Andris Skride, Chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U218	Colleagues! Thus, the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Judges’ Pensions”. Today there will be several such draft laws - a total of nine. All with one goal. This objective is to maintain the income level of the recipient of the retirement pension by granting an old-age pension if the amount of the old-age pension is less than the previous retirement pension to the same extent as it was before the old-age pension was granted. The law will enter into force on 1 January 2023. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the draft law to be approved at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U219	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service Pensions” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U220	Please submit proposals for second reading by 2 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U221	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Act on Service Pensions for Military Persons’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U222	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions for Military Persons”. The purpose of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions for Military Persons” is to maintain the income level of the service pension recipient by granting an old-age pension if the amount of the old-age pension is less than the previously received service pension to the same extent as it was up to the granting of the old-age pension. The law could enter into force on 1 January 2023. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the draft law to be adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U223	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Service Pensions for Military Persons! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U224	Thank you for your support. The deadline for submitting proposals could also be 2 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U225	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Service of Diplomas Pensions”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Eva Mārtuza.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U226	Highly honored Saeima Presidium! Highly honored Saeima! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Diploma Service Pensions Act”. The purpose of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Departamental Pensions” is to maintain the level of income for the retirement pension recipient when awarding an old-age pension if the amount of the old-age pension is less than the previous retirement pension, to the same extent as it was up to the granting of the old-age pension. The law will enter into force on 1 January 2023. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the draft law to be adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U227	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U228	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Members! See what happens to us. Next Rapporteur... Well, serious draft law "Amendments to the Diploma Service Pensions Act". Well, for what else, if not for diplomats? They are the ones who are most lacking, I think. I'd love to read there... Some changes to the Pension Act for pensioners, but no - diplomats! Okay. So let's finish it for... I understand that this is Mrs. Mārtuza quite recently... On the Saeima Tribute... There's never been any such public talk before, and so, but at least if you come to refer, then do not read from a page, but read something... at least say the essence - about what. Mr. Bergmanis told me in half a minute what this story is about. What a day to night! Okay. It must be possible for you to learn something. It took me one and a half years before my Pandora box opened. I hope that until the end of this term, other rapporteurs will also be able to tell Members about the bill in a language that is understandable to the people. But now let's go back to the bill "Amendments to the Diploma Day Pensions Act". First reading. And here's that... Well, I really don't want to personally... I don't want to be a diplomat. I find myself having problems with that diplomacy sitting here for two years and watching what's going on in our country, so... inside. But what about being a diplomat? A whole story could be about where we haven't opened their embassies so far. Wherever we are and where there are no consular departments. Whoever issues or does not issue visas to us. I don't know how many of you knew that visas, for example, are also issued by cantons abroad who are authorised. No, maybe I need to go into this subject again, maybe it can. ( Subtotal: “Truly! ”) ) And it may be necessary. But I would like to read what regulation is there. Because we have here, well, it's just the last time we've seen a few cases like this, just like... such pearls that businessmen are confused - from public administration, let's say all its bureaucracy, the way it is expressed, its misunderstandings about things, non-deepness... For what else, if not diplomats, knows better where, how, what. Even if he is clearly told that there is some communication problem in that whole circle, when the businessman can already run from Shanghai to Hong Kong, there is something else. He can already fly there for his money and explore where he's sent everywhere, but now... At the end of the day (in English, the end of the day) it pays just a certain amount, and there is already the sum that he pays out of him, which is not compensated for by anyone. Nobody... from the budget. It's like he chose to become an entrepreneur himself, and he chose to do something abroad, and... You're still... Oh, well. Maybe you don't know, the image of Latvia, by the way, the image of Latvia... What's that... I would always forget this country. I'll remember, I'll tell you. East... East... The image of Latvia in the east is created by businessmen... about Latvia. To attract us investments, they form... They told a story about how it took place for 10 years. And then it's the guy! Because of some diplomat, everything just ended! The state is still the community and everything, and now they're trying to talk to that diplomat in some way, to involve something from the government here... public administration here, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and something does not happen. Well, that's just... We have already thought about the next request to Mr Rinkēvičs. Just I'm sorry, Mr. Pug, he's about to... The demand commission will not work, we will have to sit there every day. It's such a serious thing. I think that's exactly what the diplomat... in the body of diplomats, we have to carry out a full audit, we have to go through every country - we need, we do not need, we do not need, why. I have to be, I don't have to be... These are the huge sums we pay for the diplomatic corps. For them, for their families, and that's crazy! Is it really a priority in our country now? There's a momentous audit to be carried out. We don't... and we do not have representation at all in countries where people are proud that they know something about Latvia. A you are sitting down on your heads, and the priority for us today is the bill 'Amendments to the Diploma Day Pensions Act', not the pensioners who are dying here and whose children have left and are not now able to come because we have a community. And simply neighbors carry them (the “neighbours” with a small letter, the word “neighbours” has also been damaged for years)... bring them a meal. With them weeping in the kitchen, because the children are gone. Not enough... because we have a community! Viņķelis and Karin have a companion! I, on the priorities, just about the fact that there must be a proper audit in the diplomatic corps, and Mr Rinkēvičs, if you hear me, can start already today. Because this one's going to have a theme, next... I just... This is gonna be a time bomb. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U229	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U230	Colleagues! This is a very serious subject for retirement pensions. I could, of course, start by laughing at the fact that Mr Latkovsky, probably like Āboltiņa, will, after a while, want to qualify for a diplomat's seat in order to have a retirement pension, but this is something else. It's about this system... and it will be very unpopular perhaps, but at the same time I have heard it from very, very many of my constituents, especially those in the private sector who do not understand... Their question is well-founded, they don't understand the following thing: how can it be that forty... Forty-five-year-olds, perhaps fifty-year-olds, retire in the years of force. It can only be in a country that is a very rich country. That's the main argument is that it's stressful... Well, obviously stressful, dangerous work. But these issues of stress and danger, then we have to put on... should be placed in several sections. Let's start with stress. I'll ask you a question. The ambulance has a stressful job or is it not? Is the doctor to whom the patient is sleeping on the table - yes or no? Cassier Rimi's box office, where people come from morning to evening satisfied, dissatisfied, has or don't have a stressful job for a low salary... for a little salary and thinking how to feed the children by paying them... and everything else? A businessman who deprives him of a business that raises taxes that he has to think he will close down will not close a bank account - he has a stressful job or is not a stressful job? We can continue on any subject. On any subject! And we will find an answer to what is stressful work. Everyone in their work has experienced or can experience some stress, stress cannot be a criterion. The other is danger. So one argument is danger. Warrior, cop or... I don't care. Once again, we can give these examples - whether the ambulance driver has a dangerous job, or if the umbilical who is on the roof has a dangerous job... and in that spirit. You see, it's being dealt with by insurance. Well, if a person gets hurt, then he should be insured at work. But if he doesn't get any injury and goes into retirement in 40, 45, 50 years, then that's the wrong system. In the normal world, people who have been, for example, active military service or active police service, in 40 years, obviously no longer run, don't get caught up every day, don't hurt or catch criminals, but they switch with their experience to work in a different mode of work. They're starting to work, no matter where they're in the ministry or in the office, or... or they just... Their working lives are changing, not they are retiring. And from this point of view, service pensions are also absolutely... I don't understand. The question for diplomats is: where is the danger and where is the stressful work? It's completely absurd in nature. So... In today's context, when many people don't have to pay wages, who has to make business hard, we're talking about retirement pensions for diplomats... All right, then. So So Solvita Āboltiņa - she has a very stressful job, sitting in Rome, a very dangerous job, she will have a retirement pension. This is what we are deciding on today. In fact, I think this is a broader discussion. If we want to act in the interests of our society, we should review the existence of all retirement pensions as such. We should pay attention to the fact that a person has just a normal salary, so that a person has a job, not a system of maintaining, at the expense of the taxpayer, that is, at the expense of the private sector, a strong 40-year-old man who retires. There's another little detail. In modern times, as we know, life expectancy increases considerably. At the age of 60, a person is not an old man, but he is a retiring pensioner. It's a youthful man... on condition that he has not drunk or degraded himself in other ways. If he has received half of good health care, now the age of 60 is no longer the end of his life, even though the average life expectancy of men in Latvia is about, if they are not mistaken, 69 years and 10 years longer for women. But the fact in itself is no reason to believe that life expectancy will also be reduced. This is a huge burden on the already very small part of society, which has to sustain society as a whole. Then let's count how... we have a part of the society that actually pays taxes. We are all used to saying that we are paying taxes. We Members of the Saeima are not paying taxes. We do not pay taxes because we earn our income from tax money, so we do not generate any new money, we simply spend tax money. And it's the whole public sector. If we count, how much is the public sector? The public sector has about... minus 300,000 people. The whole public sector. Here we go for pensioners. How many pensioners in Latvia? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Clementyev: “550...” ) 550,000. So they're almost 900 thousand people. There are still children - 350 thousand. That's a million 200 thousand. In the private sector, we are ultimately leaving between 300 and 400 000 people, who actually also physically create the whole tax mass and sustain society as a whole. And then it happens that these 300 thousand people have to hold forty... Forty-five-five-five-five-year-olds of strength... the most powerful age with the highest capacity for work. You're looking at me, and you see what I'm doing! And, of course, it would be beautiful, because being a Member is by nature... It is also in itself how to be in retirement pension. If you are a member of the Saeima in 40 years of age, it is clear that the work of the Member is not the most difficult: sitting in the beagle, getting on the phone something, sitting down, laughing at something, voting against the people, coming out with a vows, with George's tapes; there's around, The Salnieks smiles something about you and your shoulders, and that's all. But, seriously speaking, I call on Members to think about this and to raise this discussion on retirement pensions at a different level. I understand that I want us to pay the police, firemen, soldiers and so on, but we are dealing with this issue, not with the pension system, with the problem of the tax burden, but with the pay system. We solve the issue with the job system, we address the issue with the business development system, so that those people who after this parliament too... And it is quite clear that most of this Parliament will not be elected in the next parliament, including Mr Latkovsky. Clearly, they will need to find a job. And we have to find work today so that they do not have to send them as Solvita Āboltiņa to Rome as an ambassador to receive a retirement pension as a diplomatic pension, but just so that people can work in Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Bhutan’s intersages.) So that I call, Members... Mr. Butane, you can stay out there! Neither will you be elected to the next Parliament. No matter how much you run and no matter how much I advertise you from the pub, you don't shine. Don't shine at all! You're already on the Tallinn highway as well... Sorry, I wanted one word on the letter “s” to say. But it will not come to you. Don't shine. Don't shine. To relax safely, you will start building the Liepaja prison, and you will be able to sit there. Thank you. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U231	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U232	Colleagues! Much of what Mrs Liepaja and Mr Gobzem have said is, of course, true. But if we're talking about this... on these accompanying nine draft laws, which are in fact changes within the framework of the Law on State Pensions, then these changes concern people who have already reached pensions... So the real retirement age. And it affects in such a way that it eliminates, equalizes injustice. In particular, those people who have now chosen to add the 2nd pension level to the 1st pension level compared to those who have chosen life insurance - they have there in terms of the cost of this injustice. With these accompanying draft laws, we are preventing these injustices... i.e. that have occurred in these people. But if we are talking in general about retirement pensions as such, the Commission has already been working on these issues last year and this year too. We have listened to the State Audit Office and we really see that - yes, the burden of retirement pensions for our state budget is huge at the moment, it is huge. And together, of course, one of the works of the future will be either to raise... age, for example, for diplomats or for whom, or to work on this retirement pension system, a review of the State Audit Office report. This autumn, too, this topic is planned in the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, but the specific amendments to the law this time are therefore accompanied by the law “On State Pensions”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U233	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U234	If we are talking specifically about the diplomacy chapter on this issue. Pay, pension and so on - there's the biggest problem for many decades was in another fact. In fact, the diplomat is outside the normal tax regime. He is a micro-entrepreneur, or as a beneficiary of royalties, because absolutely most of the remuneration diplomats, especially while abroad, are not receiving as basic salary, but as a bonus, and the taxes paid in the budget are very low. At a time when an ambassador leaves no matter what pension - retirement or old-age pension - he is, in principle, in a low-income state. It's... was the greatest problem that needs to be corrected. That is, first of all, about diplomacy. Secondly, however, I would also like to add one thing about these retirement pension schemes. I understand that this is not a question today. But if we start talking about this, it is imperative that we lift it up, because there is a really completely abnormal situation. Perhaps once started with the army, then joined the police, then the local police and then diplomats. And would it be a good question now, which has no retirement pension scheme at all? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Papule: ‘Pedagogics!’ ) And I... Let's compare the profession of diplomat, let's say, with the profession of educator. I really do not see any differences here. If not otherwise. Me too... My first job was a security service, which then became a military police. I had a rather strange feeling, say, over the last five years, when I met my colleagues on the street, who are all retired. This is not normal and needs to be changed. We do not have so much human resources and where we still have money to allow half of the nations to keep retirement in 45 or earlier years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U235	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U236	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Members! Well, well, we just understood with Mr. Skride what this law is about, what it's all about... What was my story about? All cool, let's go in that direction, that something has to be done with their diplomatic corps - the audit has to be. But today is a great day! Today's Friday is Crowd, and at the end of this discussion on diplomacy, I think that the greatest (or perhaps you don't think so, but I think) is... The greatest diplomat ever in the country - Vaira Vike-Freiberga. Today she has her name. Maybe we could congratulate you by simply applauding the Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga. I think they should be diplomats. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U237	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added or explained on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U238	I call on colleagues to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U239	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Service of Diplomas at First Reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U240	Thank you, colleagues, for your support at first reading. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U241	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to law “On service pensions for employees with special service grades” of the Ministry of the Interior”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U242	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on service pensions for employees of the Ministry of the Interior system with special service grades”. The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Service Pensions for Employees of the Ministry of the Interior with Special Service Degrees” is to maintain income level in the same amount as before the granting of the old-age pension. This law could enter into force on 1 January 2023. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the draft law to be adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U243	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On service pensions for system employees with special service grades” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U244	Thank you for your support. The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 2 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U245	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. The first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State and Municipal Professional Orchestras, choirs, concert organizations, theatres and circus artists’ retirement pensions and ballet artists’ allowance for creative works”. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Eva Mārtuza.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U246	Dear Members of the Saeima Presidium! Dear Saeima! The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Payment of Service Pensions of Professional Orchestras, choirs, concert organisations, theatres and circus artists and Ballet Artists for Creative Works”. The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Professional Orchestras, choirs, concert organisations, theatres and circus artists and the allowance for creative works” is to maintain the income level of the service pension recipient by granting an old-age pension if it is less than the previous retirement pension, to the same extent as it was until the award of the old-age pension. The draft law will enter into force on 1 January 2023. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the draft law to be adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U247	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U248	I'll have one joke and then a real part. It's a joke that I can't understand with this draft law on retirement pensions for artists - the village will have a retirement pension as an actor or as an artist of a circus. (Applause) Depp. L. Liepiņa: “As a Member!” ) It is a minor part. But the real part. Let's talk about the serious part. And here's a lot different than diplomats' retirement pensions. I see one major problem here for all artists, actors and everyone else. There are some examples for us in the history of our country, the beautiful, successful country. And I will remind you of these examples. Our great actress Vija Artmane passed away in principle in poverty. Show me one developed, successful country where the greatest actor or actress walks almost into poverty forever. ( Internouncing call.) Or Jam Sculme, whose property is to be sold because the family cannot maintain these properties. And it's a problem because... I will once again want to turn towards the National Alliance. You also have, by the way, a Minister for Culture and, for a long time, a Minister for Culture. And you've always been about those Latvians, patriots with tapes, prisms and all the rest... for pastels and what isn't so... torches and everything else. How does it work, National Association? Why are our actors, artists, living in poverty at the end of their lives? That's because you raised the monument? You picked up George's tape today? Is that because you voted, the National Union, against reduced VAT on food? Because you voted against entrepreneurs all these Covid-19 times. Today, you also voted against those end-of-life benefits. Because you are telling the public all the time and then you are happy that you have been ripped off with SAID. And you know why you're doing this? You are doing this because it has been working for you for 30 years to get you to these places, so that Mr Dombrava - you dombrava - does not create, for example, a strong Latvia, but... You need your Saulkrasti district separately because you live there and move home. This is your personal interest, not that of the people. And it refers to artists. It refers to the fact that our company cannot afford to pay for tickets to the theatre, concerts like in New York, the Metropoliten Opera, 500-700 and how much is there in euro... dollars in America. So our artists, many respected artists (with rare exceptions, with rare exceptions!) Lives in poverty at the end of life. So in the history of our country, one of the greatest people - and I will name his name, it's Raimonds Pauls... That's why he's not enough for you to pay... pay what he has lost in various bank cases. But you have enough Unity for the khom of Latkovsky's khom Vonsovič, where through the administrator's cases in the whole case of Latvijas Krajbanka... where they get all the big bills and all the rest... through. And that is also the question: how is artists not enough? And that's why, the National Union, it's especially in your direction, because you're always the ones - about those Latvians, about culture, about our identity, about monuments, about pastries and tombs. And all the rest of you are... I have a call for you – perhaps finish with these pointless symbols, but start what should be done for the Latvian people. And for the benefit of the Latvian people one thing needs to be done (Intersage.) - so they can live in wealth. Because you're going to feed... The more prosperous the nation is, the more it would be to speak in society than to leave. You have, by the way, that demographic adviser, Mr. Debtor. He has tried to deal with the matter as much as he has done. But during this parliamentary term, some of his works, such real works... As Raivis Dzintars then ripped it, I don't know, shirt... It's on the Saeima... He wrote there on Abreni and everything else. Clap and write, but Abrenes we don't have, Raivi Dzintar! We don't have that. It was just such a pre-election political struggle. It was not a struggle for the essence, for our society and, among other things, for our artists. I therefore also call for this issue to be more complex and for it to end with the deception of society, with some pointless flags, colours and so on, to begin to address the issues that are needed. And by the end. Given that you did not vote today and your vote, the National Union, was lacking for us to have reduced VAT on food, I invite you to put this issue on your Thursday agenda next week and show you that you are truly Latvian patriots that you are truly Latvians and help the poor people of Latvia, a country that is one... if not the poorest European country at present, which is no longer comparable to Estonia and Lithuania, but which is best compared to Romania. And that's what you deserve. Yours, because you are already Latvians, the National Association! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U249	I closed the debate. Is there anything to explain on behalf of the Commission about the draft law in question? ( FROM a faction: “Nothing to say! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U250	I call on my fellow Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U251	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the first reading of the National and Local Professional Orchestra, choirs, concert organisations, theatres and circus artists’ retirement pensions and ballet artists’ allowance for creative work in the law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U252	Thank you for your support at first reading. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 2 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U253	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau officials’ retirement pension law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U254	Colleagues, let's go on with the draft laws... Within the framework of the draft law on state pensions. The specific draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Corruption Prevention and Combating Officers” aims to prevent injustice in relation to persons who have chosen to add level 2 of pension to level 1. The Commission is supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U255	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pensions for Officials of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U256	Please submit by 2 October this year... for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U257	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutors’ Service Pensions Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U258	The accompanying draft law within the framework of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”. The draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Service Pensions Law” will also prevent injustice towards those persons who have chosen to add pension level 2 to level 1. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U259	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutors Service Pensions Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U260	Please also submit this year by 2 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U261	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals also for this draft law - 2 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Emergency Medical Assistance for Employees involved in the Provision of Emergency Medical Assistance”. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Eva Mārtuza.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U262	Dear colleagues, The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the first reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Emergency Medical Assistance for Employees in the Provision of Emergency Medical Assistance”. The purpose of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Emergency Medical Assistance in the Field of Service’s Service on Service Pensions” is to maintain income levels in the same amount as before the granting of the old-age pension to the recipient when awarding the old-age pension if the amount of the pension is less than the previous retirement pension. The law will enter into force on 1 January 2023. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the draft law to be adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U263	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on retirement pensions of staff involved in the provision of emergency medical care services” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U264	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U265	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 2 October of this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Jānis Krišāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U266	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions”. The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions” is to maintain the income level in the same amount as before the granting of the old-age pension to the pension recipient when awarding the old-age pension, if the amount of the pension is less than previously received. This law could also enter into force on 1 January 2023. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U267	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U268	Thank you for your support. The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 2 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U269	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U270	Honorable Bureau! Dear colleagues, The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” at first reading. The purpose of this draft law is to determine the procedure for establishing the old-age pension provided from state budget resources in cases when a person acquires life insurance for the accumulated funded pension capital... life-retirement policies. The law will enter into force from 1 January 2021, and certain norms of the law (the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure for calculating the average salary for invalidity pensions) - from 2022 and from 2023 (take into account both the amount of old-age pension and the amount of life pension policy for determining the amount of the pension). On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the draft law to be adopted at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U271	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U272	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U273	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. Draft law on the Second Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U274	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission discussed and supported for its first reading the draft law on the Second Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention. The nature of the draft law is as follows: As a member of the World Postal Union, Latvia is required to approve the Second Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention. The Convention shall include provisions applicable to international postal services. The Final Protocol to the Convention contains reservations concerning the application of the provisions of the Convention and Member States must ensure that the selected postal operator providing the universal service fulfils all obligations arising under the Convention and its Rules of Procedure. As I said, Latvia, as a member of the World Postal Union, must comply with and comply with the requirements and commitments set out in internationally accepted documents. It is therefore also necessary to approve the Second Additional Protocol. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U275	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the Second Additional Protocol to the World Postal Convention at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U276	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 September 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U277	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Interest”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U278	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance”. The draft law was created at the initiative of the Committee on Export Control of Goods of Strategic Importance, because it was established that the subordinate institutions of the Ministry of Defence had encountered restrictions (the need for a licence) by sending their own military goods for repair. The amendments are necessary for an exception to the export licence to apply also in cases where institutions under the authority or supervision of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Defence export military goods for repair. Go on. Currently, the law prohibits the import of military goods by individuals in Latvia, because in order to obtain an import licence for military goods, a special permit issued by the Ministry of Defence is required, which is only entitled to receive individual traders or commercial companies. In view of the rapid growth of Latvian military goods manufacturers and the offer of military goods that have not yet existed in the Latvian internal market, it is necessary to amend the law aimed at prohibiting the purchase, storage and use of military goods by natural persons in the territory of Latvia. This ban will not apply to firearms (including their components, accessories and ammunition) not specially designed for military use. On the next amendment of the law, which is in this set of amendments to the law. Taking into account the specifics of commercial activities and the limited range of economic operators, as the law imposes increased requirements for entrepreneurs to obtain a special permit, currently traders do not pay the state fee for re-registration of the special permit. Operators shall pay a one-off national fee for receiving the special permit. The draft law provides for the deletion of the provision on the state fee fee for the re-registration of the special permit, as the resources of the Ministry of Defence are used for the control of economic operators. This means that continuous reinforced control of economic operators is being carried out using the information available in databases and databases. editorial improvements and clarifications have also been made. A legal framework is in place for economic operators to clearly identify, with a special authorisation (licensing), with which goods listed in the Common Military List of the European Union are allowed to engage in commercial activities. There is also a legal framework that does not restrict the right of natural persons and legal persons of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and third countries (with the respective permission of the Cabinet of Ministers) to engage in strategic goods. And when concluding the report on this draft law, it should be said that these amendments create a legal framework for economic operators to clearly identify, with special authorisation, by which goods listed in the Common Military List of the European Union are allowed to engage in commercial activities. Regulation is necessary because several third country investors show interest in commercial opportunities in the Latvian military sector, including production and research. There are already several producers on the Latvian market who do not have the possibility to expand their military business, as one of the members of the businessman is a natural or legal person of third countries. The current situation hinders Latvia's economic development and investment arrival. In accordance with this norm, third-country investors will be able to start their military business, taking into account Latvia's interests and state security. Colleagues! I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U279	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance”. Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U280	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 September 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U281	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on compulsory social insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U282	Highly honored Presidium! Colleagues! The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs has examined and supported the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases”. The main task of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “There’s nothing you can hear!” (a) be entitled to an old-age pension if the amount of the old-age pension is less than the amount of the old-age pension, to the same level of income as the old-age pension. The law would enter into force on 1 January 2023. In the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, the draft law was approved for the first reading. I ask the Saeima to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U283	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. ( Internouncing call.) Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U284	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 2 October. ( Interface: “What year is it? ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U285	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U286	What a funny sun out there! Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” has been drafted primarily to ensure compliance of the regulatory framework with two regulations at the level of the European Union. The first relates to closer cooperation on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, on the basis of which the European Public Prosecutor's Office will be established. And now 22 countries of the European Union, including Latvia, are participating in it. And the other regulation is on mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders. The draft law has also been designed to solve the various problems of the application of the law found in practice in international criminal law... cooperation, which is, of course, regulated differently in each country. Long awaited regulation... And its application, so that the European Public Prosecutor's Office can be fully operational. And under this confiscation regulation, this will be applied throughout the European Union, with the exception of Denmark and Ireland, already on 19 December this year. So we don't have much time. I therefore call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U287	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U288	The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U289	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 September this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U290	See Draft Law Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media (No. 671 Lp13) at second reading. The draft law was designed to allow until 19 September this year... by September 19th we would have accepted... has taken over the requirements of its directive, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic we are already delaying this deadline. We need to take over the requirements of the European Union Directive of 14 November 2018 (Audiovisual Media Services Directive) in our national legislation. Some of the norms have already been taken over by amendments to the Law on Electronic Media adopted by the Saeima on 11 June this year. Colleagues! In this respect, I must mention that, in this case, when we opened the Law on Electronic Media, we received from the industry - from the Association of Latvian Radio Organizations and the Latvian Advertising Association - a number of proposals for facilitating restrictions on advertising, such as the liberalisation of radio activities and the abolition of restrictions on strong alcohol. And then, to put it simply, we understood that if we start working on these proposals at this sitting, we will not be able to work on this directive. So the majority of the commission decided to turn later... In particular, it decided to discuss the proposals put forward by the organisations, which are relevant (to be discussed!) , but to separate this directive from these proposals by associations and media representatives, which were both on the radio... I mean, for... for example on the promotion of strong alcohol in radio and TV. Two proposals have therefore remained. These are the Commission's proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. This is supported by the Commission. This proposal is supported, it is linked to the Diaspora law. It provides for ensuring the availability of Latvian public media content in the countries of the Diaspora - according to the order of the public electronic media... the annual plans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U291	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U292	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Members! Now what the neighbor says, I'm on the... that's exactly what we've been doing in that commission. I do not even remember whether I have voted in favour or against, but it no longer has any meaning... Read together, which is written in proposal 1, their version: “Access to public electronic media programmes and services should be ensured throughout the territory of Latvia,” of course, isn’t it? - "and also in the countries of the Diaspora"... And there is no point there, there it goes on to say, ‘in line with the annual plans of the public electronic media programmes’. And now I have a question: how do we know what those plans say? I haven't seen plans like this. No one for me... These plans may include, for example, that we only display information that is beneficial to power! That would be a single version. Second version: show only “Panoram”! The third version - could be written: we only show Mozambique because I live there in a guy and he has four more friends! It could be written there, too. What all that could be written there! Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, However, I will be calling for a 'yes' vote today. I'll tell you why. Because the previous version - which was in previous reading - only mentions security throughout the territory of Latvia, forgetting about the Diaspora. But if we really want to make a Diaspora... Mr Asheraden, this is important because we are talking about the Diaspora! They would also tax our country if they returned here. Therefore, I also call on you to listen to the Unity. And, Mr Latkovsky, I also call on you not to be wrong. Listen to me! My offer will be for the third reading. I know that, for the third reading, substantial corrections cannot be made, that only comma can be made... and something else. But this question is essential if we really want to sort out the media. And if we want those people who have left to receive qualitative information about what is happening in Latvia and if they want to get back to hope that this is probably the land where it is worth returning. So my offer for the third reading would be that in the Diaspora countries too... not according to anything there... I don't know what plans are, but... where there is no less than... And then we can already discuss what are the countries of the house that are interested in us -- not less than two thousand, not less than 500 -- perhaps in all... Maybe all... Perhaps we come to the conclusion that anyone living abroad is important to us. Well, I would be that... Because if Karin says that we have as much money as we never had before, then... If there is so much money, then talk to the Diaspora, let's sort out those public media! There's a wish. Mrs. Steela works wonderfully on the law, the hat takes off! So - let's go ahead and start communicating with normal public media, with normal content, with normal NEPLP, not with some jokes who don't understand what they're doing! Just start communication! And only in this way will we return those people, not when we set them up, I apologize, in the ears of the batons, telling us how well we live here, how wonderful everything is. Then they come back because they listen to how cool it is. He goes back and says, “E, but nothing has changed here!” They leave again, then it takes some years, and then they say, “No, maybe... maybe that third child could still be raised in Latvia.” Comes: “No, now... Nothing has changed! No, well, what is that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They say everything is okay on TV, I came here – nothing is right here!” Some kind of support programs with some millions who've been thrown in there, as if it were, but in the end... Support program - they send people... Then when a person is looking for a job, they say - enter ss.lv. These are the support programmes that you have prepared for the return of the Diaspora. So I look forward very seriously to thinking about this. Today, support! But I hope that people who understand something from the media right now... Development/About! ... I think the ZZS is better off now... CONTRIBUTING TO such an elementary question today... In my opinion, entrepreneurs, Mr. Latkovsky, you are starting to fail to serve so that you can count on it! We should group together and make a normal, understandable, not just for you... So, support! And to the third reading I will submit a change. And I look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U293	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U294	Yes, very nice, true Members must also make proposals. Let us wait for the proposal from Linda Liepiņa on what has just been said. On those annual plans for electronic media programmes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “You know best! You're going to be the one who's gonna say something here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ It is a public order that is expressed... the annual plans for the programme. So, the public order that orders the relevant guidelines. And here it is also about websites so that we can see everything on the Internet. The proposal is supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U296	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported. It is also related to the Diaspora law, which provides for the presentation of events related to the Diaspora in the content of Latvian public media. This proposal is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U298	Consequently, all proposals have been examined and supported. I call for a second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U299	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U300	24 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U301	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 September this year. Please turn on the microphone for Liepins. Do you have a proposal for a different deadline?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U302	The proposals, however... I don't know, I haven't discussed this with Mrs. Steel... Do we not need a slightly longer term? Because I really... My proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U303	You can now make a proposal for a different deadline. So, to what... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U304	(Don't talk on the microphone.) 14 days. What happens then? 1 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U305	So the deadline proposed by Member Liepiņa for the submission of proposals is 1 October. On the other hand, the Commission asks for a definition of 24 September. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “Maybe for Mrs. Steel... ?” ) Mrs Liepiņa's proposal - 1 October this year. We must vote first on this deadline, 1 October this year. Mr. Neighbours also wanted to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U306	Yeah. I would like to remind you: colleagues, this is the date of implementation of the directive and we are already delaying the deadline. Well, let's stay to September 24th this year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U307	Please turn on the microphone for Liepins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U308	Well, see, the bureaucrat you've become. What directive?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, National interests - first, then - your directives! (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U309	Okay, okay. Thank you. We will be voting first on the following date, therefore on the deadline proposed by Member Liepiņa - 1 October this year. Please call me! We will be voting for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media" on 1 October this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, against - 54, abstaining - not. Therefore, the proposal on the deadline by Member Liepiņa is not supported. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals set by the Commission remains in force - 24 September this year. Dear colleagues, Agenda of the next sitting - Adjudication of cases pending at the previous sitting Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U310	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 25 February, the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs has examined and prepared for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events”. The draft law was drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior and the State Security Service on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 1 of the National Security Act, which states: ‘The guarantee of national security is a fundamental obligation of the State’. The aim of the draft law is to establish the procedure for applying for a sensitive measure and examining the application, as well as the rights and obligations of the organiser of the event, persons responsible for public policy and security, persons responsible for public order and security, persons responsible for the procedure, visitors to the public event and participants of the event. Public events involving a significant number of people present a higher level of threat to public order and security, as well as possible terrorist threats. In assessing potential threats to public order and security and terrorist threats, shortcomings have been identified in the existing legal framework which do not provide for the full assurance of the necessary security measures, as well as timely response to the various threat situations during the course of the public event. The draft law has been designed to address the shortcomings identified. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U311	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U312	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U313	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year. Dear colleagues, since we have examined this draft law, we can... That is why we have also examined the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 5 March 2020. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “At last!” ) This is a draft law from the meeting of 5 March 2020. So we can have this sitting... We can close the sitting on March 5. (Applause) Agenda... Dear colleagues, Members Pavļuts, Latkovskis, Zakaistovs, Jurās, Dzintars, Augulis and Agešins ask to announce a break at 15.00 for 15 minutes and then to continue the sitting. Do Members have objections? ( The box “No! ”) ) There is no objection by Members. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! Name for Maria Golubeva to read the results of the registration. Dear colleagues, Please pay attention once again. Please return to the hall at 15.15! So in 15 minutes, we'll go on sitting. This break is only 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U314	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ieva Krapāne, Māris Kučinskis, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Ralfs Nemiro, Edvins Šnore and Jānis Urbanovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U315	Thank you. Interruption until 15.15 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U316	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law on the rental of residential premises, second reading. Dear colleagues, ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U317	Hello, colleagues! Welcome, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Members! For the second reading, 71 proposals have been submitted to the draft law on the rental of residential premises. However, during the period between the first and second reading there have been numerous meetings of the working group, the draft law has been viewed in the sub-committee meeting, it is also seen in the working group on the improvement of civil procedure law under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice. And to consider all the proposals - 71 proposals - there have been more than 10 meetings of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which defines more precisely the scope of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U318	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U319	Dear colleagues, In support of proposal 1, however, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Mr Budrik has just mentioned - that there were several meetings before the second reading, several working groups. Why? The first is that the right to a roof above the head is a fundamental right for every person, for every family. And it is vital for all residents of Latvia. Everyone! It is therefore also extremely important that we touch these things with increased attention and a sense of responsibility. That is the first thing I would like to say. Second. When it comes specifically to this draft law, it should be said that the rental relationship was... are governed by several laws now. And the main law is the Civil Law, which regulates rental relations. But in the early 1990s, we started to regulate housing problems in two directions. The first direction was to restore the historical right to real estate heirs... owners and heirs whose property was nationalised. Thus, the first process that started was the denationalisation process, before which also the norms of the Civil Law on the right to succession and the procedures of the denationalisation process were extended. The second process, which started almost in parallel, was the privatisation process. Why am I talking about this? Because by the early 1990 ’ s, almost 100 percent of the apartments were used on the basis of rental rights. When these two processes started, there were inequalities between different population groups: some who were granted the right to privatise public or municipal property and others who remained in denationalised homes because of fate. Because denationalisation rules did not regulate their scope - the relationship between new owners and tenants. It was at that time that the existing law on the rental of dwellings appeared, the main and only purpose of which was to protect the private tenants who remained in denationalized homes. I will not now talk about the fact that it was precisely for them to be denied the possibility of privatising their apartments in general order, unlike others, in the country. This caused the first problems in housing. Unfortunately, today, the number of problems has not decreased; it is growing every year. And that is very regrettable, because we created quite a large quail in the legislative area. Now, the proposed bill... It has a sacred purpose - to develop the area of rental housing, the sector of business. This is a welcome moment. But here again, it is important to look at the instruments with which we are trying to regulate this area. The first is an administrative instrument. We foresee that the rental contracts concluded are registered in the Land Register. Whether it is good or bad - one can judge this, but it is an administrative instrument that does not contribute in any way to the direct development of the sector from a business point of view. Because it has to be borne in mind that today any businessman who starts working in this field has the first interest in recovering his investment. And so the sale of apartments in new homes was much more efficient and more attractive than renting out, because there is a “long” money that returns very slowly. So the first goal... The first step is envisaged here as an administrative step. The second step envisaged here is the simplified procedure for the termination of a contract... and placing... It's a long story. The banking association was very much involved in this because they were one of the biggest lobbyists of this law, especially the previous law, which did not go before the Saeima was discussed, because it had been rejected from the beginning.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U320	Mr Dolgopolova, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U321	I am referring to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U322	I understand, but the speaking time is over. ( Interface: “Together in time! ” ) You can ask to combine the two speaking times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U323	I'll finish my sentence. Last thing I'd like to say. Why do I call for support for the proposal from the Legal Bureau? Because, unfortunately, today comes out of the fact that the Legal Office is the last obstacle to the brother who is supplied by our endlessly respected ministries. But I call once again, when colleagues discuss any of the proposals tabled, to follow the fact that this law was primarily intended to protect tenants of denationalised houses. And today it is in complete danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U324	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U325	Hello, fellow Members, again! I'll start with the most important. I call on you to postpone the second reading of this draft law until next year's budget is adopted. I'll explain why. Mr Dolgopolov has just told this historic preamble. The old law, which is currently in force, was adopted in 1993, when denationalisation had begun, but privatisation had just begun. Of course, this law is out of date because there are completely different relationships between the market and society. The new law on which we will now work and which we will, of course, adopt (but I very much hope, after the adoption of the budget!) , indeed, affects very many people's fate, affects several very important interests of our market players and absolutely all Latvian citizens. The proposal, which we are now discussing, states: "This law regulates the legal relationship between the tenant of the dwelling and the tenant, defining their general rights, obligations and responsibilities, the grounds for termination of the legal relationship, as well as the basic provisions of the contract for the rental of dwellings." There is no word here about banks or potential investors, about their readiness to find a common language with banks, about how to build more rental houses in Latvia. All this is very welcome. And that would be acceptable to an absolute majority of the Saeima... on one condition - you could open now in document 70 - 70! - and look at where the salt of this law is and why it should be adopted only after the approval of the state budget, the next year's budget. The situation is as follows: There is a letter sent by the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance asking them to find in the next year's budget those three and a half million, which were finally paid to those people who were the most unjust in housing in the early 1990s. It is about the right to housing that has been approved by our Constitution! I am talking about the fact that our Saeima can enter into history, the history of our parliament, with the fact that we will finally correct this injustice. We are one step away from correcting this error! There is information that the Ministry of Economics has raised this issue - compensation of tenants of denationalised houses - as one of the priorities. Very little is needed: it is necessary for the ruling coalition to adopt this priority; it is necessary for Parliament to vote in favour of this position in the next year's budget. Three and a half million -- and this bloody... This tragic phase of our history on housing will be resolved! So I call you, given that we had the promises, even the laws that were passed (if we talk about medical salaries, about the salaries of educators), but were not fulfilled... We're no longer... not us... I would believe it, but the people don't believe it, those people who stand here every time in a picket, they don't believe it! They need confirmation! And only if Proposal 70 is adopted... and not only in second reading, but also in third reading... Whatever the way in which the law, but the most important thing to have this position in the budget, they would believe. Therefore, my proposal is to facilitate the way of this law to the successful economic development of Latvia. In favour of the law, please: we must adopt, approve this position in the state budget. I call you to this. Today, of course, we will consider a number of proposals, if we can, because we are not ready to work up to five or up to six as I understand. But a big, big request is to postpone the examination of this draft law until next year's adoption of the state budget. This is a condition that people expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U326	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U327	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission for proposal 1. 1. - Legal Bureau's proposal - the Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U328	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U329	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying which groups are not covered by the regulation. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U331	3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which, by its nature... The comments of the Legal Bureau were as follows: remove out-of-court regulation of municipalities and state-owned... existing... rental relationship... and to other laws... After a very long debate, both this and the other relevant proposals were not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U332	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U333	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I will talk about proposal 3. The proposal makes reference to the fact that the provisions of this law do not apply to the property belonging to the municipality. And I'll explain why. First of all, it must be said that the properties owned by municipalities, the properties of the apartments, are not rented under normal market conditions; they are rented on the basis of binding regulations issued, on the basis of the law, as well as for various other reasons. This is simply not working under the normal market conditions under which this law is drafted. There are, for example, different recipients of social services who receive municipal apartments in a certain order. On the basis of the law, for example, orphans are issued these apartments - are granted on the basis of the law, in accordance with the law. In this law, it is not completely separated. This is not my proposal. This is the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which is already in the main section, which is at the very beginning, under the general rules, and also defines it... Go on. If we read, for example, proposal 43... These references to the fact that this law... with regard to municipalities... concerns the issue of the local government... is about helping the apartment solve... It is necessary to provide, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law,... This is already mentioned there. And in every place where it is about renting municipal property, renting apartments, this is also stated. Therefore, in my opinion, it is wrong that we do not talk about it at the very beginning, as the Legal Office also offers. If the Law Office has reflections about this norm, imagine what reflections can happen to any of Latvian municipalities or anyone who reads this law! It can be perceived in a much different way; it can be perceived in a way that the recipient of social services... that she is also subject to the rules contained in this basic part of the... Section of the Law. In my opinion, this section should be clarified - if not now - for the third reading certainly. I think this is one of the mistakes of the draft law... at the beginning of the vote... that it should be... That it's... that this proposal has no place here... but then, looking at the other articles... And one example is the proposal 43, where the commission itself has come to the conclusion that, however, all cases relating to the municipality... All the cases to look at... on assistance in solving the issues of the apartment... That is why this proposal should also be supported. Dear colleagues, I call for support to be given to this proposal from the Legal Bureau, so that the draft law will have the right structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U334	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U335	In the area of housing, the relationship between the municipality and the population is very different. The first point is what Mr Valaiņa spoke about: helping the vulnerable groups to deal with housing. The second case is that municipalities own apartments in privatised or partly privatised homes; in such cases, general order applies and could indeed be subject to business relations. The third thing is that when municipalities build, say, social houses, so that these projects can be justified from a business point of view, from an investment point of view, they can divide their residential... parts of the housing stock to be built, and this could be done on different terms - from sale to lease. Then also certain rules... So what the Legal Office is calling for here is justified... justified, yeah... This means that we have not solved this problem to the end. This can be partly resolved by amending the aid law, of course, but partly - with unanswered questions. I call for support to be given to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U336	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U337	Representatives of the Latvian Municipal Union and representatives of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia were heard during the meeting of the Commission. And, having listened to all the arguments, the commission was still inclined to regulate all the rental relationships in one big law. This proposal, thirdly, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U338	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for -13, against -68, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U339	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U341	5. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau explaining what the rental of residential premises is: "The rental of residential premises is a transfer of the right of use of the living space to another person for a fee." Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U343	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which defines the subject matter of the contract for the rental of accommodation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U345	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which shall record who is the hirer. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U347	8 / 8 - the proposal of the committee responsible, which defines... who determines how the rental contract is to be concluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U348	Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U349	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U351	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. There is no support in the Commission. This is due to the fact that the Law Office considered that rental contracts could not be concluded at the same time with several tenants. This proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U352	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U353	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the exclusion of the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 7: ‘The term of the rental contract may not be amended’.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U354	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U355	Dear colleagues, Here's the thing that the main rental... the essence of this regulation is... it is also the subject of sub-drafts... is that rental disputes, in the rental sector, will be able to be dealt with quickly and undisputedly... and registered in the Land Register. To landbook judges who... and also for judges who will then apply this uncontested procedure, it is only normal that the rental contract be concluded for a period of time which would be fixed. We have two options. One option - these are rental contracts, which are recorded in the Land Register. If the proposal of the Legal Office is supported, then in any case, any changes should go to the Land Registers Unit and the amendments should be registered. And the other option. If rental contracts are not registered in the Land Register, there is no problem in concluding a new rental contract with a new term. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in order not to upset this uncontested process, please do not support the proposal of the Legal Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U356	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U357	However, I call for support to be given to the proposal of the Legal Bureau because... Just because it was a long discussion in the Commission. This proposal provides for the exclusion of a provision requiring that, if two parties (e.g. A person with person B) conclude a rental agreement with each other for a period of, for example, five years, this rental agreement should be valid for five years. And if we support Mr Budrik's proposal not to support the Legal Bureau's proposal, then for five years the obligations of this treaty should be fulfilled. To depart from them or to amend something in them (for example, to set a longer or a lower deadline) would simply not be possible. In my opinion, this is not the right approach. Any Treaty may be amended! To make it by law that the treaty should not be amended - this, in my opinion, would be very wrong, because it is not a treaty between a state and a private person, but between two individuals, whose relationship would be too great to intervene in this way. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U358	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U359	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U360	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 36, against - 47. The proposal is not supported. Detention - 2. I'm sorry. For - 36, for - 45, for - 2. The proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U361	Yeah, thank you. 11. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau relating to proposal 10 which provides for the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 7 as the third paragraph of Article 14. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U362	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U363	Thank you, colleagues, for not supporting the previous proposal. These proposals are intertwined. I also call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U364	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U365	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. In the Commission, the 11th proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U366	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U367	12. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. This provides for the exclusion of Article 8 of the draft law, entitled ‘The contract of rental and its content’. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U368	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U369	Yes, colleagues, proposal 12... I propose that the rules governing the content of the contract be excluded. I think it would be appropriate for the content of the contract to be determined by law when it comes to renting out public property or some kind of commitment from two public persons. But the law to set out the contractual clauses between two individuals, which are necessarily to be included in the contract, would not be right in my view. Because, under such conditions, we are not just creating such a peculiar bureaucracy on the one hand... On the other hand, can anyone answer the question: what if one of them - the tenant or tenant - does not agree with one of these statutory points? What will happen then? In that case, simply, such a rental agreement cannot be concluded because the law states that it is mandatory to include it, it and it. And what are we going to do with situations that will result from a contractual relationship... two persons shall not be allowed to close... ( well, for example, on sub-leases)? This has not been fully agreed in these points. Therefore, in my opinion, this approach that we put in, we put into this law a provision on the content of the contract... and, if the contract is between two individuals or between two legal entities, people who have no connection with public administration... We put content into their mutual agreements. Of course, there is such a practice, it is already - the Civil Law already sets out the basic cases that should be included in this type of contract. And I think this backup or this... development is totally unnecessary in the context of this law. Of the good works planned by this law... how well the new projects will develop and how people will improve their lives, and how we will protect each other... In my opinion, such a provision does not definitively mean that and - quite the contrary! - could cause difficulties. And this provision must also be seen in the context of proposal 56... on how much we protect the rights of the tenants of apartments and why this law has been created in general. I therefore call for these provisions to be excluded, which deal with the content of a contract concluded between two individuals. Turn off this law! It will be an unnecessary bureaucracy, against which we will find ourselves and will create just new problems.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U370	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U371	Indeed, there was a long debate on this proposal. They were about it - put or not legally (in the law itself!) what the contract should be. Now imagine that there are changes in some other laws governing one of the positions provided for in this law. This means changing contracts before changing the law itself. It's nothing but red tape! Civil law really regulates... I'm already talking about this... regulate these requirements as contracts should be. But... Instead of foreseeing that, let's say, variants of model agreements can be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers... because already today the Cabinet of Ministers has developed and adopted several dozens of regulations in the field of housing... That would be normal practice - types of model agreements. Naturally, life dictates different differences. By inserting such a rule into the law, we tie hands not for ourselves, but for those who will work with these things, who will try to draw up and conclude contracts. We're complexing... We are also trying to complicate the work of lawyers who will work... which will deal with the conclusion and control of these contracts, their amendment and so on. That is why this proposal really is on the table here.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U372	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U373	Colleagues! I would like to explain to you why such a proposal - to include the content of the rental contract here at least or the content of the lease agreement - is legally foolish and pointless. I'll start with the first course of the Faculty of Law. Civil law is a legal relationship in the area of private law. What does the sphere of private law mean? In contractual relations, this means general freedom - the peers have general freedom of agreement as they wish to agree. This is the whole essence of private law. What do I mean by that? You can regulate whatever is to be entered in the rental agreement. And now consider this situation: a rental agreement will be concluded, and it will not contain any of these written requirements. Will the Treaty be or will not be in force? The Treaty will be in force. Why? Because of the nature of the tenant in the legal relationship. This proves that it is completely pointless to describe the content of the relationship between the members of the private legal relationship. That's what you want. The general principle of civil law is as follows: everything that is not prohibited is permitted. This is not an administrative process where only what is permitted by law is allowed. On the contrary: everything is allowed: we agree, as we will. We want to write a long contract, write it at least on 100 pages. We want to write on the page - we write on the page contract. This is at risk for these parties to the agreement, and it is their right of choice. So even if the parties to the contract have not followed one of the points you point out there, it's... it will not change anything at all. In fact, this could rather undermine the interests and rights of the weaker party of the contract when it would subsequently defend its interests before the courts in the event of a dispute. Colleagues! If we want quality legislation... I understand that you may not like my emotional speech and you do not like the fact that I speak about Latkovski. But listen to matters which are pure legal matters. and don't make laws as an official, don't think like an official. And in this case think as two participants in a private, civil transaction! The civil law transaction has only two essential elements for the contract to be valid: it is the subject of the contract and the price of the contract. That's it. Point! We agree on a specific rental agreement, we agree on a certain price. And even it doesn't have to be regulated in the law, because Civil Law, 1937 Civil Law, already says it. Therefore, let us not make, please, bureaucracy and do not make private-law relations as a model for the regulation of public authorities! Let's... Let us give the participants of civil relations freedom! Why is this freedom necessary? Because civil relations need speed. Quickly conclude an agreement, quickly execute, quickly challenge, quickly resolve the situation, not slowly, long, bureaucraticly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U374	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U375	Hello, colleagues! Mr Gobzem's speech is a bright proof and an example of why lawyers and lawyers in our country deserve so much. Because this Article - Article 9 - which lays down... How long?... The 19 mandatory points that must be contained in any rental agreement protect non-legal persons who, for various reasons, do not have the opportunity to go into it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Do not protect Regina, do not protect! That's the thing!” ) I can explain to you... For example, to tell you that there is a standard in Canada - a rent agreement, where neither the tenant nor the tenant can depart from any of the points. And it's done for only one reason to protect those people who are not fully aware of their rights, who don't... who are not legal professionals. They have a different education, but they somehow rely on the country and their parliament to protect them, here Members will protect them. These 19 points (you could get to know) are the minimum points that really need to be in any rental agreement. For with our lawyers is it - when they are comfortable, they go by the letter of the Civil Law and the spirit, when it is not convenient, they say: “Do! This is Civil Law! After all, it moved from the French Empire to the Russian Empire and only then to us. It's been out of date, the language... “ and so on, and so on. Once again: the bill “Law on the rental of residential premises” - it is not a ordinary law, it is a law with a deep social nature. And our responsibility is to protect people from human error by the norms of this law, from ignorance of the norms of the law, and to protect the judicial system of our country from long, meaningless judicial proceedings. Let's not give lawyers a job in this respect, well, we're going to develop at least a minimally regulated content of the rental contract. Thank you. Please do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U376	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U377	I just want to answer Regina Lochmele-Lunova. Regina, if I am a renter and I have been specifically written about what I have to respect when I conclude a lease agreement, if I want to cheat the tenant, I do not specifically enter one of those points into the lease agreement, then go to court and I found the contract invalid, because it does not contain all these points. Because the law says you need all the points... and none. As a lawyer, I tell you... as a lawyer to tell - the renter is interested in such a version of the law to make a special mistake. It is therefore necessary to maintain the general principle that there is an object of the contract, the price (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova’s intermediate call. , the other provisions are simply agreed, and then the Treaty will always be in force. You yourself have created a situation where bad-believing parties will create a contract at the start, which will be challenged... where there will be an opportunity to challenge its validity. Regina, that's a story! Such a norm that you defend, Regina, is actually working to the benefit of those who are wicked rather than benevolent. That's what I mean, it's not a matter of lawyers here, or something else. I just... I am speaking directly from the moment at which there is a risk, and I am saying that the risk is less for someone to be unfavorable if we did not lead to a situation where the validity of the Treaty can be challenged on formal grounds that some formal prerequisite has not been fulfilled. That's what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U378	Name of Member Regina... I'm sorry, the name of Member Viktor Valainis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U379	Colleagues, I would ask you to take a closer look at this proposal and the previous ones who have obtained the support of a majority of the Saeima Members regarding the exclusion of an amendment to the treaty. If this is put together with another proposal 56, then... A normal man... I think we should think strongly about whether or not to conclude any rental agreement at all. These 19 points mentioned by Regina, which allegedly defends the tenant (the points stipulated in the law that the term of the contract should not be amended... So five, 10 years, no matter, and then 56 articles in the proposal, which provide that the tenant can throw you out of his own warning - that is, I think the tenant's right in that country will be very, very negative. Put all this together, and these points, which are - on the contrary - will strengthen the renter's right, not the tenant's protection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U380	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U381	It goes without saying that the law is written to honest people. Unfortunately, when dealing with various conflicts between renters and tenants, I have seen contracts that I cannot describe for you. If we leave everything in its free flow... Believe me, and a whole series, well, not quite honest lawyers who have... draw up those contracts. Please, legal professionals working in the Saeima - before you another third reading. Add the 19th paragraph! Well, make a Canadian example of a standard rental agreement, and there will be peace! I say once again that our Civil Law unfortunately allows such a liberal approach that for ordinary people in our civil relations nothing is clear, lawyers must refer to the opinions of lecturers of the University of Latvia, to any court in order to explain their justice to courts... Judgments of the Supreme Court and so on. Well, once it's a law that needs thousands... tens, hundreds of thousands of people. Let's help them! Not to criticise, but, now, make this verse so that we can... so that a person can come in, I don't know on the Ministry of Economics website, print this standard contract, sign and live in safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U382	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U383	I know that, on the one hand, it is very good that we are arguing here about how to interpret one position or the other. In this case, the fact that we are arguing - we legislators - about the norm contained in the draft law shows that these different visions will exist in practice. Here are two sides: renter and tenant. Usually, I think we're all... In particular, those who sit at the steering wheel then also have pedestrians during their period, read the road traffic regulations, which state that they must not cross the street to the red light. Everyone's doing this thing. All of them. Or not everyone. The same is true here. We can record everything we want. Not everyone will read it. I said, not for nothing, that there should be a model contract, which would be a model study for those who want to conclude these contracts. Training example - this is important. There should be those positions that should be preferred. And then there's a free choice of people. People know that, let's say, quick loans can borrow only if they know they have to be repaid. What, though, is happening in practice? That is why it also shows here that the draft law is not particularly well thought out. But I call for support for Mr Valaiņa's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U384	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U385	Yeah. The Commission took the view that it would not support Mr Valaiņa's proposal because the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Justice justified that there should be a minimum rent in order to be able to enter the lease in the Land Register. 12. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U386	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Members Pavļuts, Zakaistovs, Latkovskis, Jušas, Dzintars, Augulis and Agešins are asking the Saeima to announce a break before 9 a.m. on 24 September this year. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There is no objection by Members. But, honourable colleagues! I must also inform you about the replies to Members' questions scheduled today on the urgent question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, "On the action of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in relation to the results of the inspections of "OIC power stations". The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to a pre-planned working schedule. For the member Lochmele-Luniv, Orlova, Agešin, Papule and Zarins question to the Minister for Economics “On Opening of the Heating Season in Riga”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. So today's answers to Members' questions do not take place. Two more questions have been received from Members. Members Liepiņa, Sprūde, Stepanenko, Gobzem and Schmidt submitted a question to Members about the lack of teachers in educational institutions. Name for motivation to Member Linda Liepiņš. ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) So Mrs. Liepiņa is not in the hall. A question has been put to Members. Members Zarins, Krišāns, Klementjevs, Nikonovs and Orlovs submitted a question to Members “On the development of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers required by the Law on the Electricity Market and their compliance with the decision of the Saeima regarding monitoring of mandatory procurement of electricity”. This question is submitted as a matter of urgency. We hand it over to the Minister for Economic Affairs. And we refer the previous question to the Minister for Education and Science for a reply. Dear colleagues, Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to read the results of the registration to Maria Golubeva as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U387	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs... Dombrovskis is? Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ieva Krapāne, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Linda Liepiņa, Edvins Šnore and Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-17-PT13-2112-U388	Thank you. Interruption until 9 a.m. on 24 September this year. ( Interruption)
