ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U1	Honourable Members! On the agenda for the meeting on 8 October this year. Changes to the agenda of the Bureau meeting initially submitted. The Legal Commission asks to exclude from the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” and the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” from the agenda of the sitting until the subsequent decision of the Commission. Here we have to vote, please. Can we vote? We can vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the exclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” and “Amendments to the Criminal Law” from the agenda of the Saeima sitting until the subsequent decision of the Legal Commission! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” and the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” are excluded from the agenda of the meeting of 8 October until the subsequent decision of the Commission. On the draft laws submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the member Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Linda Liepiņa and Alda Gobzem's draft law "Amendments to the Labour Law" be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U2	Dear colleagues, In this period of excitement, however, when we talk about adoption abroad, we have worked closely with our colleagues all summer on the new approach that we would like to offer to you today, my fellow Members, with regard to the support of adoptors here in Latvia, because, as we know, in the last sitting, the majority decided that this adoption would be abroad... It is even more restrictive. Consequently, there is an immediate logical question of how we can provide the children who might possibly wanted to go abroad, but now, perhaps, this possibility will be denied to them... the improvement of the quality of life of these children here in Latvia. I am talking about the quality of life because the adoptors themselves and the adoptive societies, I think, deserve very much thanks on the part of the country, because they are, in fact, the improvers of fate, the changers of fate for children who may not have already fallen into that best fate. But briefly on our proposal. So our proposal consists of two draft laws - this is and the next one. And I'll set the start. So we are not talking about benefits, additional benefits, because as if the adoptor the Ministry of Welfare has already tried to provide these benefits as far as possible. We are talking about the fact that the country is giving time on its own - giving time to adoptors together with a child, because it is in principle... When discussing this issue for a very long time, including during the summer, we came to the conclusion that, of course, on the material side, it is time - it is time - that is what is lacking for the adoptors now so that they can establish good relations, family ties with children. Perhaps this lack of time is also due to the fact that sometimes these adoptions do not take place, the pre-adoption process is interrupted, and the child... It also causes the child to be disappointed even more. This time... How, then, can the adoptor provide for this time? He may apply for unpaid leave. He may receive special leave for adoption of a child, but here too the law stipulates that this leave is, in principle, identifiable... until the age of eight. In general, the legislator is now helping parents with leave... with unpaid leave... until the child is eight years of age. Then, in eight years' time, you're in principle, well, if you can say, a vacuum, because with regard to vacation... because biological parents are no longer entitled to this parental leave. But here we are talking about getting a child into the family. A new concept - child entering the family as the birth of a child to young parents. And any child entering the family regardless of the age of the child - and thank you for your support of the one-and-a-half-year holiday initiative - regardless of the age of one of the adoptors... so-called paternity leave. So that regardless of the age of the child, there is a need for state support in terms of time. And this very valuable time, which is needed by the adoptor, is needed both in the pre-adoption process (or even more) and in the post-adoption process, so that there is no situation where a child... the child is taken from the orphanage and placed immediately in the kindergarten or sent to school and the child is not at all able to adopt. I will go on to the next draft law. And I really call on you very much to allow us to also give the opportunity to talk about this more widely in the Commission. Please support this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U3	Colleagues! Does any Member object to the referral of the draft law to the commission responsible? If there are objections, does any Member wish to request a vote? You see - there is the button 'I request a vote'. So please make this known. Members shall have no objection to the referral of the draft law to the Social and Labour Commission. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” presented by Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Linda Liepiņa and Alda Gobzem be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U4	Colleagues! I would like to thank you very much for allowing this draft law to be examined by the Commission. And I would very much like the head of the commission to allow us to present this idea to the wider public as soon as possible. Because I know that the adoptors are also looking forward - with impatience - to this new approach, and I will be very grateful for the support. Keeping a little bit on this concept. So it's clear if we're talking about giving time to adoptors, this parent... this baby care... Sorry, this parental leave... together with the parental allowance would be payable in the same way as in the case of the birth of a child, but unlike biological parents... In the case of a biological child, this leave would be allowed to be divided up, because, for example, if there is no such great need to use the whole year or one and a half immediately, the parents would be able to share it regardless of the age of the child. Example: if a child is three years old, then perhaps this time... this time will be spent immediately, but if the child is nine years old, then during the pre-adoption period one part of the leave will be spent, but perhaps a little later this need for an extra time will be immediately obvious and the parents will also spend it. Parents who absolutely do not need this leave and benefit may also be present. Perhaps they are rich enough, perhaps one parent does not work at all. We will see this later - when this norm will hopefully come into force. But clearly, we believe that the support mechanism for adoptors should not depend on the age of the child to be adopted. If you can adopt a child until you don't know... At the age of six months, you can spend good time with that child and get closer. If not, then, you're guilty. There should be no such approach, I think. Therefore, it is in the best interests of the child as well as support for parents to have as many such adoptions in Latvia as possible, and even though children after the age of eight would not lose hope that one day they might also have the opportunity to get their family. I thank you once again, my fellow Members, for not opposing the handover of this draft law to the commission, and of course I also call on you, as a result, not to object consistently to the handover of this draft law to the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U5	Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commission responsible? There is no objection. The draft law has been referred to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal for a decision “On the way forward of the 10 392 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Registration of Uniflorous Partners”. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal at this parliamentary sitting? If there are objections, please press the “Log in” button and they will be registered. There is no objection. So the own-initiative proposal is on the agenda and we will look at it. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Iveta Benhena-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U6	Hello, colleagues! On 26 June 2020, the Saeima received a collective application of 10 392 Latvian citizens “Registration of Uniflorous Partners”. On July 22 and September 30, the Commission for Mandates, ethics and applications listened to experts of constitutional law Lauri Liepa and Baiba Rudevska when examining a collective application. These lawyers represented different positions on the legal protection of same-sex partners and the need to regulate them within the framework of family law. The Members of the Commission decided, after hearing the views expressed, not to support the progress of the collective application and reject the application. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 392 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Registration of Same-Sex Partners”. The Commission is asking to vote in favour of rejecting the collective application and to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U7	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U8	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Latvia is one of the last remaining countries of the European Union where there is still no possibility of registering relations with people who cannot or do not want to marry, but who want to be together and form a common household. Some of these people - same-sex couples - cannot be registered in Latvia at all, but these families are also families, and the laws of that country must also be taken into account if it really cares for all its people. The MyaBalss.lv initiative is another call to the Saeima to finally sort out this legislative space, to respond to people's calls and to submit to the development of the regulation of spouses. We know that the Social and Labour Commission has already begun to investigate the situation. Several examples of inequality have been identified, including 60 times higher fees for willary heirs compared to spouses. So the fact that it's possible to put everything right at a notary is not true. This means that two nonmarriage mates would have to pay a tax on the inheritance of a common house that would often have to be abandoned. The Ombudsman has also called on the government to correct this injustice. Children who perceive these couples as their parents, although only one parent is biologic, also live in same families. When the biological parent dies, the other parent, whom the child loves as his mother or father, and who takes care of the child as his own, becomes legal a stranger. By introducing marriage status, we would protect these families. Also, the status of a spouse would improve the lives of many other couples, including the less secure, who cannot afford to deal with all legal issues through a notary. These problems are faced by certain Latvian people, not by invented ideological products. Some of these people prefer to live in another European country where there is a possibility of registering a relationship. It is high time to correct this injustice and not to cast away these people. Latvia needs them. Even if the Saeima rejects this initiative today, there is already a new initiative with more than 10 thousand votes collected within 60 days for the legal protection of all families. We will continue to hold this conversation in the Saeima until our voices are heard. We will talk about this both here, in the commissions, in the media and in pickets before every vote. We are the people of Latvia who care about equality. Young and less young spouses living in traditional families and of the same sex. We all want to see Latvia as an inclusive and European country. I have no doubt that we will once achieve legal protection for all families in Latvia as well. I call on you to reject the decision of the Saeima proposed by the Commission and to vote in favour of a new decision - to refer the initiative to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U9	Thank you. Name of Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Contrary to the committee's vote, I invite you to support the progress and consideration of this initiative within the committee responsible, because I believe that we, as legislator, must ensure legal protection for all families of Latvia. Yes, this initiative is only about registering same-sex couples, but I think that, by transferring it to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, which has already begun to examine the scope and necessity of the law of spouses, Members would be able to combine better and more inclusive solutions and lead a draft law that would protect all people living in unregistered cohabitation. Because let's be honest, there's a lot of them. The fact that after a committee vote a new initiative on the adoption of the law on spouses has already collected more than 10 thousand signatures proves that the Saeima will have to work on these issues. Our society demands legislation that reflects the reality of their lives. Let us be heard, let us work on these issues and ensure the protection of every family, and once again I say that the family is not married couples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U11	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U12	Dear President, Honourable Members! The problem seems to be that these proposals are not in the area of obligations law but concern family law. Today was a picket at the Saeima for the protection of all families. If we look at Articles 32, 33, 35 and 38 of the Civil Law, we can read about various forms of cohabitation, which, in fact, are called family, but the Civil Law does not recognise them, as well as those forms of cohabitation that cannot be recognised as marriage. In this case, I can call... are in fact of six such forms. For example, no family can be formed, which means a marriage between relatives on a straight line, brothers, sisters, and half brothers and half sisters. May not be between adoptors and adoptors... A person already in a marriage, i.e. a polygamy, must not form a family. It's forbidden to have a marriage with an outrageous one. Forbidden marriage with a minor as well as same-sex... between same-sex partners. Of course, we can say that these are just some kind of partnership, but in fact they exist as families. Certain cases are also governed by the Criminal Law that there should be no such form. But now they exist. And they're not even in dozens. I'm afraid that in Latvia, such families... these six types of families may be in hundreds, if not in thousands. How could there be a solution without infringing the Civil Law, and how can a solution that does not require a change of the Criminal Law in this case? I think the rapporteur has not told you in more detail here, but I can repeat what Baiba Rudevsky, a lawyer, has recommended, and I fully agree. Thus, the interest of the common good could be a person’s concern for each other, not their bedwork. It is therefore perfectly possible to develop a new law institution that is not in the area of family law, but which is in the area of liability law, which can be described either as a registered household or as a registered form of care. But then we must be honest and say that the country must not be interested in the deep intimate preferences of these people. Thus, if such a law were to be drawn up, it means, for example, that two or more pensioners whose rights would be protected, who are, for example, accompanied by old age, taking care of each other. And they register this common household, they register this mutual care. Well, it's a lawyer... parts. Yesterday, who watched (or it was yesterday) the program “ 1:1” with the Catholic Archbishop, saw that the church would actually support such a registered form of cohabitation, which would be registered as a common household in the field of liability law. I therefore call for this law not to be passed on today, because there are lawyers who are already working on this new law, which will be in the area of the law on obligations, and then we will be able to discuss it here and discuss it in the commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U13	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U14	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, To be honest, I have... I'm ashamed. I am ashamed that, in fact, Latvia has not been able to prove so far that every person living here is worth that houses are for every person living in Latvia. In my view, we must stop sorting our compatriots, we must stop dividing into desirable and undesirable societies, we must stop dividing up families. It is a duality, my fellow Members, because every family is a value that needs to be defended. And who are we at all to say which families are better and which are not? We must stop sorting our compatriots, because we cannot afford it, Latvia cannot afford it. We are a nation with two million people, and every year there are fewer and fewer of us, and you know, everything cannot be left to birth alone. People continue to leave our country, and this is a terrible reality. We're losing great minds. We are losing our citizens and denying the citizens of other countries to see this country as a place where everyone can build a family and start living here, because quite simply in the eyes of Westerners we are not yet a land of great opportunity. By asserting the fundamental right to a full life, we are giving the green light to emigration quite directly. The reasons for this are, of course, different, but the guiding motive is largely the same. I admit that no one has ever heard anyone claim to go in search of a better life. You know, it is painful for me to know that part of society believes that Latvia is unable to ensure its citizens a good and dignified life, that this country is unable to protect every citizen and closes its eyes to clear discrimination, that this country does not want to stand up for everyone - actively resisting equality and equality. And what respect we fellow Members can have if once again a public initiative that has received the support of more than 10 000 people is openly pushed into the corner. That nine Members silence the desire of tens of thousands of people to be heard, heard, recognised. The way we want to see the world does not always match what the world really is. Obviously following the regulatory understanding of what is right in the family, we do not see a general picture. We do not see the society as it really is. Everyone knows that children grow up in all kinds of unions. And, you know, no matter how we don't want to recognize it, one of the most common forms of family life is the single mother, bringing up her children with her mother's participation. Two strong women who fight with their teeth and nails for the welfare of their widows. Someone might say that it is far from ideal, but if we ignore reality, we are at a dead end. And how is this family model worse than two loving mothers who bring up their child with the same care? And don't say that the child, growing up in the same-sex couple family, will be confused with the splendor of the iris and will not be able to distinguish white from black. Heterosexual couples will not disappear. Traditional families will not cease to exist, children will not grow up in a barrel. But if we ignore reality, we are alienated from the people and the people from us. In order to become a truly modern, economically prosperous and socially just state, Latvia must go with it. And we, Members of the Saeima, must listen to our fellow citizens. We need to look at reality in our eyes and go with it. And so far we have proved that we will turn to the past more sweetly and look at the past, rather than go to the future. I think that shouldn't be proud of it at all. While most European countries are moving forward, Latvia is slowly slipping back. Colleagues, real people, our fellow citizens, stood by the Saeima house today and also three weeks earlier. People who want to remind us of their existence. Should they ever do so? Obviously, the country has ignored them so far, regarded them as undesirable interferences, as a cause of anxiety, who wants to disrupt the current order. This does not benefit the overall growth of society. It only contributes to polarisation, division and mutually nurturing. Latvia cannot afford this. I will repeat: we must fight for every citizen, not even a citizen, a citizen. The LGBT community does not want to take away anything. The law of the life partners will not tear down the marriage institution. Marriages will continue to be closed and will also be divorced between a man and a woman. But we can provide them with legal regulations that will protect their families, their cohabitants, and their spouses before the law. It will recognise them as full members of society and will not create them a desire to leave our country in search of a better life. It will protect them from the challenges of life and strengthen the confidence that Latvia is also them that Latvia is all of us. If we want to divide this land, we need to learn to live, listen and respect each other. One of my closest people has agreed to share their experience story. Now that we are debating the initiative in question and the need for the law of our spouses, I believe that it is my duty to read to him and to other people who have been confronted with injustice. By the way, nineteen years ago, I was the first to be entrusted by Mike with his carefully kept secret and declared his homosexuality. I remember he's in a shrewd tone... In fear of losing our friendship, “comes out of the closet” if you can say so. At that time, I promised him a clear and clear promise that I would always be on his side, and today I promise that I am still on his side. I am on the side of the community he represents and I stand for Latvia, where the story of every person is also a story of Latvia. And here’s Mik’s message: “We met Vlada at the beginning of 2014. We quickly realized that bringing together both of us was a definition of happiness. Yeah, I know it sounds cliché, but you know that love is one big cliché. After several months, we decided to go to the same apartment and start living together. It seems to me that one of the nicest moments was when he introduced me to his friend in his yet embarrassing Latvian language, saying that I am a friend of his life. At the time, I realized that we were a family. But you see, also at that time Latvia did not treat us as a real family. We lived in our bubble, our friends, and our relatives supported us, visited each other at the workplace, and had lunch at our joint company. Years later, we realized that we needed to take the next step in our relationship. We wanted to register our life together and to ensure that the country in which we live also recognised our union. Then Vlad's promotion came. Long and dictatorial thought about whether we wanted to move to a foreign country and leave Latvia. At the end of the day, we decided to start a new life in Norway, where both of us are respected - both together and separately. We checked in and lived happily. Looks like we could breathe at last. But our happiness in Oslo was not long. A couple of months later, Vlad was suddenly killed, and I remained completely alone. In order to be able to receive life insurance compensation paid by his employer to any surviving spouse, I had to prove that we were in a long relationship even before moving to Norway. The insurance company requested a document to certify my and Vlada's life in Latvia. I tried to explain to them that such a concept simply does not exist in Latvia, but it did not help. His death was followed by one trial after another. One fight after the next. Needless to say that I lost the process, our co-habitation in Latvia was not recognised and I remained with pain in my heart. Not only with pain in the heart for losing the closest person, but also with pain for having returned me in the most difficult moment. Once again, I had to be disappointed in a country that I called home again. After a year I returned here in Latvia with hope that times change and Latvia will finally become a European country, but it seems that I am still not welcome here. Anyway, patriotism is so easy to remove from me, so this letter too. Give me this message, please, to the Members, so that they hear that, of course, I also love this country and I am part of it, and I have come home to remind you of my existence with my presence. Thank you.” This is the end of the letter. You see, colleagues, such privileges and rights are often invisible to those who enjoy them, and this experience of Mikas is an example of the fact that Latvia still allows unfair and unacceptable treatment of minorities, and the law of spouses is an acutely necessary step towards making his story a past, not a day for many people. What we decide on here and now affects real people and real families. We must stop sorting our fellow countrymen. We can't just afford it anymore. Latvia cannot afford this. I hope that we will be able to find a good solution to protect all Latvian families, so I call not to support this prepared draft decision and to continue discussions on these issues in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U15	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U16	Hello, dear colleagues! Members! Members! At the moment, the story is not how to legally establish same-sex relationships - whether to register or not. That is the question that we have now been asked. If people love each other, I don't care what their sex is. Their relationship does not put any burden on society. Indeed, we should take care if they were to hate each other rather than love each other. However, it is also important for loving people to have public care. And the proof of this is the attitude expressed in the draft decision of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application. This indirectly proves that this collective application is a cause. The unwillingness of the co-legislators to register a partnership lies behind the unwillingness to notice and recognise homosexual relations in society. The lack of such a desire is a concessions to prejudices that still exist in society. As a result of the stigmatization of homosexuals, they are even more averting the discovery of their relationship; it makes them hide their relationship even more, while a demonstrative attempt to announce themselves in the show, and the prejudices in the individual demarches are even stronger. This vicious circle can only be overcome by legal recognition of stable homosexual links and by application of these rules in support of relations, by the State's responsibilities and by the guarantees of the rights of those involved in the partnership on a voluntary basis. In recognition of the partnership, our societies will become more free and fairer. I call for the Commission's decision not to be supported by a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U17	The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U18	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues on Saeima premises and online at screens! The short-term collection of more than 10 thousand Latvian citizens' signatures for registration of same-sex partners shows that society is becoming more empathetic, more tolerant and more inclusive. The position of the peers on matters relating to formalisation of relations is changing. This is also reflected in the signatures collected in even shorter periods - one week - of the next initiative that we are about to see in the Saeima, of the legal protection of all families, including the families of same-sex partners. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications, which is to carry out an initial evaluation of the application and to prepare a report on its future progress, has given these people “no”. The Commission is calling for the Latvian citizens' initiative to be rejected today. I have three things that I can add to this. Firstly, it is a call against the possibility of legally registering relations between people who actually live in one household, are full members of their family and society, work, pay taxes, raise children, create businesses, participate in our economy, engage in non-governmental organisations, in other words live the same life as any other citizen of our country. Civil union or registered partnership means the rights, responsibilities and guarantees provided by the State to couples in stable relations. A registered partnership for same-sex couples would provide a legal opportunity to deal with property, maintenance, heritage matters as recognised national partners. Secondly, it is a call to ignore and reject the expectations and expectations of all those fellow people who, at least in my e-mail and social networking records, have commented as follows (I will only mention a few examples): “I have a little dream so that I can go to the wedding of my friends.” Or another entry: “I want Latvia to become a more friendly place for those who have been forced to leave it because of their sexual orientation.” And another entry: “I want to see a society with human dignity, where every person has value, regardless of his choice.” This is said by various people from traditional families, who are not personally affected by such a lack of regulation, but are affected by family members, friends, colleagues and acquaintances. And thirdly, traditional families are in no way affected by this regulation. Heterosexual relations do not discriminate. There is no rule of rights for these people. I am convinced that, while maintaining inequality and refusing to recognise same-sex relations, our country maintains an environment in which hatred and homophobia can flourish. It is unacceptable for me that the Commission rejects even the opportunity to look at the issue at the Saeima and calls for it not to be given to work in the Commission. The same-sex partnership should be a reasoned discussion based on mutual respect, avoiding intolerance. I believe that it is the task of politicians to ensure a debate at parliamentary level on the call of Latvian citizens to legally protect all families of Latvia. The 10,000 signatures collected during the week for the next similar initiative show that society is ready for such a step. Politicians must also become ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U19	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U20	Hello, colleagues! Today, we will vote in favour of transferring the joint application of citizens for registration of same-sex partnerships to the parliamentary commission. We will not be voting for such a partnership to be recognised, yet this time - no. I believe that Latvia's same-sex partners should provide legal protection as soon as possible, but today we will vote on the opportunity for the Latvian legislator to discuss an issue which is important for at least 10 707 citizens and which affects the fundamental rights of Latvian citizens. Yes, I understand that 30 years ago there were no homosexuals in the public's eyes, but there was a criminal penalty for this. But the world is changing, understanding is changing, and the issue of equal rights is very important for further development of Latvia. The Roman pope speaks of homosexual couples. The Archbishop of Latvia participates in a discussion about possible options for the legal solution of same-sex couples. And the only ones who want to be more holy than the Pope of Rome himself are going to be the Latvian Saeima. This application does not call for the amendment of the Satversme to be discussed and does not call for a review of the marriage institution. Latvia wants to be part of an inclusive and empathetic Europe in which all families are valuable; all families will benefit from it. I stress - all! Because giving rights to those who do not have it at the moment will not in any way make existing families worse. We cannot afford to wait for Europe to force Latvia to take such a step. We better sort out the partnership issue ourselves and solve the daily problems that arise for a relatively small part of society. Latvia, of course, is not a precedent for solving this issue, and in many places in Europe a spouse... law... A similar law has already been adopted: in the Scandinavian countries 30 years ago (the beginning of the 1990s), in Finland 20 years ago (the two thousand years), in our neighbourhood, Estonia, five years ago (in 2015). President of the European Commission Urzula von der Leien said very recently that the family in one Member State of the European Union is also a family in another Member State of the European Union. And it can't be that, when you come out at Riga Airport, the marriage that was in force in Stockholm will not be here anymore... is not recognised. I would like to thank all non-governmental organisations and activists, on behalf of my own and those of my fellow Members, who have been fighting for the human rights of themselves and others for many years and who have been raising public awareness so that we can better understand and be prepared to discuss it respectfully and make decisions. Thank you also to the parties and youth chapters for keeping this issue up to date. Latvian politicians should be aware that the protection of different families is no longer just their own issue, but it becomes an important issue for the whole of the European Union, and we have to debate it in the Saeima. I call on all colleagues in the Saeima not to become the last bassion of darkness and fear. I call for a discussion on the issue of the rights and equality of citizens of Latvia before the law, and for a vote against the Commission's proposal to reject the initiative. I propose to support the draft decision... forward this initiative to the Social and Labour Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U21	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U22	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! I, like the previous speaker, my colleague Inese Voika, would like to remind us, colleagues, all of us and those who have just... will vote for it right away... what we are talking about at the moment. We are talking about the draft decision of the Commission on Mandate, ethics and application, which intends to reject (and I must say, for really incomprehensible reasons)... reject an initiative signed by more than 10 000 citizens. And it is not true, as Mr Kirštein said, that we are already talking about a bill that we are going on with or not going on. We are talking about a citizen-signed application that has reached the Saeima. And indeed, who is not anti-constitutional, because at the meeting of the Commission on Mandates, Ethics and Application, these legal experts, who were (and I am a member of this committee), none of them mentioned that this application signed by citizens would be unconstitutional. We are going to vote today in favour of simply deleting, bulking and throwing this application into the paper basket. Then I'm not disappointed to think like this... I think each of us in our lives, especially perhaps those who have lived in the Soviet Union, have still experienced situations where you turned to an institution... Either no matter which public authority you get for help, and you get that kind of laughter, hate, and that's your application or that's your problem before your eyes is just being tangled and thrown out. And you're told clearly and lightly, go out the door, we don't have that... It's not anything you've brought there, we don't want to go into it at all. Colleagues, you want or do not want to, but these people who sign these initiatives (already several in turn) feel that way. I do not believe, I do not really believe that, between us, 100 Members of the Saeima... that we are really such people who... we are not ready to discuss these issues, to continue to discuss them. Because today's draft decision is, in fact, a question of whether we will discuss or not, in the future, these problems, which many thousands of people have already pointed out to us in the Saeima on several occasions, are their problems. As such an angry aunt in a Soviet institution, we simply throw these people out and say: we are not interested, we have nothing to do with it, we do not know who you are. You and us. And it's very, very painful. You can have those people... We can throw them away again and again and again, but they will come again. They will come, they will feel humiliated, they will feel wrong. They feel that way, but they're coming, and thanks for coming. This is also demonstrated by the fact that they have been reminding us for the fourth time at the Saeima that they are, too, these... that we are, they are part of our society and that they have these problems. I do not believe, colleagues, that there is not so much humanity in us that at least we are prepared to listen to these problems and talk about them. I don't believe that. And that's what the Archbishop tells us about, that's what the Pope of Rome tells us about, that's what he needs to talk about. What else do we need? I am very, very, very much calling for this draft decision of the Committee on Mandate, Ethics and Application to be rejected today. It is not about society, it is not about public interests, it is incomprehensible, because we have always agreed in the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications that, in fact, citizens' initiatives, which are not unconstitutional, we are moving forward, we are discussing them. You know, at the end, I already... I thought all of us had one very well-known poem. I'm just gonna get you out of this. It's a Chakla poem. It sounds like this: “Every one of its cubits puts a second life as a garment. And then we get angry, that it's not like that, but it's different, and we pretend we know, we know... But we know so little, so little - it's like a common festival for a celebration, it's like a joint working day... “ Colleagues, thank you. I call for this proposal, this draft decision, to be rejected, and I call for this initiative to be passed on to the Social and Labour Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U23	Name to Member Krista Bauman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U24	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! The opponents of the law of cohabitation or partnership or marriage partners often appeal to Article 110 of the Satversme as their main argument, where it is written that the state protects and supports marriage - union between a man and a woman. I will remind those present and all who listen to us that this verse is not a stoned commandment or a higher command. It was amended by certain politicians in this Chamber at the end of 2005. I remember the discussion and arguments that accompanied the amendments at that time. The rhetoric of politicians in the public space was full of homophobia and hatred, which is difficult to imagine today. I remember the next year’s pass, which was tried to ban and accompanied by the sadly famous casting of stools in the direction of the participants and organizers of the pass. There is no doubt that the outbreak of homophobia in society was also caused by the expression and attitude of politicians at that time. At present, only three have been elected in the Saeima from 65 politicians who were in favour of amendments to the Constitution in the Sleser version. Society has changed. How much I felt at the end of the summer when I met with young people who didn't remember anything about peeing in the direction of LGBT, because they were not born before. It was within the summer camp, where I talked to fifteen-year-old students about social activism, degradation, food, politics. And at the end of the conversation, I called on them, as my next constituents, to write to me the tasks and wishes that I could do in the Saeima. I will now read some because they were about as a quarter of all I got. And they say, “I would recommend that I help to achieve all the things we’ve been talking about today, for example, about hygiene in school canteens and about allowing same-sex marriages”; “I would like to see praids legal again and be able to do them again”; “One-sex marriage, please! Good luck!” “ May the world be a success! Please introduce same-sex marriages; “Thank you for talking today. I hope that same-sex marriages will be allowed; “Thank you very much for fighting for equality between women and for LGBT rights.” ( I can’t say how much it means to me and how pleased I am.) And last: “I would very much like the same-sex marriage to be legal when I grow up.” Society has changed. The society is ready, as a crowd of mainly young people (from traditional and non-traditional families) reminded of it at the Saeima for the fourth week in a row, which once again speak out loudly and clearly why such a law is necessary. Colleagues! I believe that it is unfair and cowardly to urge the amendments to the Constitution in the Schleser wording to cover up homophobia as shields or as a desperate argument why more than 10 000 citizens will be rejected again and again three times (always there will be four) of the signatures that have been collected on an initiative that would make life much easier for many of our fellow people. I call on you to show that we have at last heard them and to move them forward to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U25	The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U26	Hello, colleagues! I would first like to ask you to remember that, in order for us not to support the draft Commission decision, we must vote against. We need to vote 'no' so that this initiative, the collective application of citizens, reaches the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and we can discuss together how to achieve the protection of all families. This has several arguments why this should be done, because if we look at the reality today in Latvia, then more than 60 percent of the cohabitation has not been registered. And if we look at it from a practical point of view, these families, who live together and where there are children, are not protected before the law in the same way as families who have registered their relationship. I therefore call, however, for this debate to be held also in the Saeima, because everyone... It is a story about human rights, about the fact that all families have the same rights. And sometimes it may be difficult to understand why we need to talk about it. But now, of course, very few years have passed since we tried to get the Left used to be kind, women did not have the right to vote before, and we now have 30 percent of women in the Saeima. I would say that it is only perhaps in favour of it. So that I call on all of you to think again about this and to vote against it in this case, so that we can begin this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U27	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U28	Dear colleagues, Thank you for the intensive discussions. And it is probably understandable that today the Saeima will split into two hard positions: one will vote in favour, the other will vote against. I would, of course, also like to remind myself that those colleagues who do not want to support the same-sex marriage initiative should vote in this vote 'yes', because in this way we would support the Commission's decision to reject this initiative. So don't mix the buttons, colleagues! And now I would like to answer perhaps to some of my colleagues' rather interesting and binding arguments on this subject. So, first of all, I would like to remind Mrs Baumane, who tried to discredit amendments in all ways, trying to attach some politicians specifically to these constitutional amendments, and said that only three Members left those who supported them. Then, Mrs Baumane, there is only one Member left in the Saeima who has voted in favour of the restoration of Latvia's independence. Do you want to say in this way that Latvia's independence is no longer popular in this case, either, because we only have one Member left? Think about it! Then I would also like to respond to those colleagues who call on the pope's speech and Mr Stankevič's speech. Yes, we live in a very interesting age, in an age of various false news, in an age of reading titles where media literacy is not really the first place. And here I would like to call on those colleagues who have called on these interviews to really think about their media literacy. You, too, seem to me to be calling every moment to do so. First of all, please listen to the pope’s speech in the original language, Spanish, and translate it as it was meant. If you cannot, then listen to the interpretation from Mr Juris Rudevsky. About Mr. Zbigniew Stankevičs's interview - just the same way. Please listen to the full interview and the whole context, listen to what Mr Stankevič says. We cannot disagree with the Archbishop that we will always have things to deal with, we will always have to talk, we will always have to debate various problems. And what sounds every time that inheritance... In the case of inheritance, there is therefore a very large state fee to be paid to non-maritals. I think this debate is very important, especially for people outside... outside, let's say, the relationship you mentioned. It could also be two neighbours who have lived very well with each other and who are lonely. That is why I think that this issue of heritage would be very important for the whole of society, we are not talking about the same-sex relationship or unregistered partnership at the moment, so there is also a point that we should sort out individual people's relations in terms of rights of obligation - in terms of rights of obligation! That's it... as Mr Stankevič said, that was what he meant. And if we are talking about the paper initiatives that Mr Dūrišs mentioned here, I could remind Mr Dūritis of the very, very many initiatives that Mr Dūrišs himself has thrown into the wastebin: the law on party financing, the Mars Park... All right, the initiative on the abolition of real estate tax on the sole housing was not rejected, but it does not move forward, although there is historically the largest number of signatories in Latvia's history until now. That is why, of course, everyone is voting in their own convictions, every Member has also received his or her role as voters, and has come to the Saeima with his or her values. And that's why he also chooses to vote like this, or otherwise, through his conviction. Like the vote of Mr. Dūrīšas, no one condemned the fact that he might not have supported such or any other initiative in ManaBalss.lv, then Mr. Dūrīšas must probably understand that there are colleagues who are not prepared to support this initiative either because of their convictions or because of their interpretation of the Constitution. Please be understanding, too, because if we are talking about many applications, we are talking about people standing at the Saeima... Yesterday, even at the Saeima, there were very many small businessmen who called for no budget support, budget changes in specific laws. I don't remember Mr. Dourish had said anything about it. I also do not remember that Mr Dūreis would have mentioned something about many letters from the counties relating to administrative territorial reform. I think it was also a record number of applications that also arrived in the wastebin in the same way. That is really a question of attitude. And maybe, finally, as soon as the end comes, two more questions. If we are talking about discrimination, then discrimination against same-sex couples has been mentioned here. The argument has also been heard that here are banks that do not give credit or that look at a dish on such people. If we compare that in a bank, for example, we ask for credit for two women living together as a couple, and the husband and wife and eight children come in, what do you think, who will then have preferences in this case? I do not think that there will be anything for the family of eight children in this case. Since we are talking about discrimination, please take the whole context. Take discrimination also against entrepreneurs, against single mothers, also against large children's mothers, and we can continue to call very, very much those people who do not really feel right... provided in that country and do not feel that they receive fair treatment. Of course, there is a need to work on this. Therefore, if we are finally talking about progress, I think it is very interesting to call for progress and modernity... Various arguments are that we have grown up; we are ready. For those colleagues who may not have taken an interest in the history of different backgrounds, it might be a news that the same-sex relationship is in fact nothing new. It's no progress. The same-sex relationship since the Roman Empire... Two men freely married and registered their relationship. It's not progress. Every moment in our history, such changes are taking place. Every moment things change again, and in this case, I think you would be very grateful to be aware that alongside all these experiments, through which humanity has passed centuries, along with all those crazys and various innovations, there has always been a quiet family - a child, a mom and a dad. It has been constant. And we are all grateful for the fact that mankind is not mad and has not abandoned the ordinary family. That's why we are here with you, too, that civilisation has understood that the safest way to repeat... In order to reproduce ourselves, there is only a family of mothers, fathers, children, and children who receive their mother’s love and father’s caring hands. Of course, there are also different families. Of course, we cannot say that everything is perfect, there are always problems, nothing in life is perfect. But this family - mother, father and child - has always existed and will exist. Therefore, colleagues, if we are talking about progress, this is not progress, it is going back somewhere in history. It's some kind of different... Maybe a variety of passions. But Latvia is in fact the most free country in Europe, because Latvia does not prohibit anything. Latvia does not prohibit anything! With us, absolutely everything is allowed - any form of household is allowed with us, and you do not need to regulate anything. If you love each other, you do not need a bank, you do not need a contract, you do not need an inheritance - you simply love each other and live in the way you want. You don't have to run after the Constitution or the birthplace section, you just love it - that's what you say. So why do you want to think about different material things? Colleagues, I call... So I will call once again on you fellow Members who do not want to support this same-sex initiative to vote in favour of the Commission's decision to reject. Consequently, this initiative must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U29	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U30	Dear colleagues, Article 110 of the Satversme provides that marriage is a union between a man and a woman. And this principle has existed for thousands of years. I am convinced that this is also supported by an absolute majority of society. At the same time, I have to admit that we have different household models, some have already been mentioned - the lone mother with children, homosexual couples. We have models of households, where two old gentlemen or ladies live together. And here we're not talking about some kind of bedside fun, but really rational living together. We have models of households where, for example, the old man has a son of a drug addict who is regularly put in prison. And this old man cares for her grandson. At the same time, this social protection and various decisions remain theoretically in the hands of the son and not in the hands of the grandson. We have different models of society, households, but up to now we still do not have the possibility of registering, for example, common taxes on households, we do not have the possibility of jointly resolving different things, which really should be dealt with from the point of view of such social security. Instead of addressing these socially hurting issues in order to find solutions to the law, it is, of course, easier for colleagues to put their iris shirts on their back and to stand at the Saeima for several weeks rather than to solve problems of substance. It also seems to me that this attitude, which has been heard here in the debate, is wrong. If ‘Development/About!’ Colleagues believe that it is important to take into account the signatures of 10 000 people in particular and the Saeima should not decide otherwise, so why do you have such a critical attitude towards the other 10 000 signatures that have called for the collapse of the Pārdaugava pillar. With which these 10,000 people who twice submitted an initiative to the Saeima, with more than 10 thousand signatures, I also allow some of the signatories to be the ones who signed your initiative... Why has the Saeima still not demolished this monument? Why don’t you think about it if you care about the involvement of the public, if you care about what 10,000 members of the public want? I call today on this draft decision... support the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U31	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U32	Good afternoon! So this is a bill about gays, let's talk about what it is. And I want to talk to you about a number of chapters. The main arguments that exist for the party who wants gay marriage are to say that they are human rights. That fifteen-year-old children write letters to a Member. I would remind Mrs Bauman that 15-year-old children can marry at all only with the permission of their parents. And there's a question about whether you can. So the children should not be manipulated here and the letters of the children in the parliamentary tribunal. I will talk about human rights and restrictions for those who defend gay marriages. You are talking about human rights, dear Members. But I do not remember that you would stand for the hundreds of thousands of people of Latvia who do not have the right to vote, who have the status of non-citizens. Where are you then? Why are you not, if you are already such a great defender of human rights? And it's about your duality, about the huge duality. As with the duality of speaking today, there are several Members who I would ask you to come out of the closet and tell you what those restrictions on human rights are. Mr. Durishi, maybe you need to get out of the closet and tell him? Or Mr. Skride... Tell me what are restrictions on human rights? Can't you be in a position? Can't you be elected to the Saeima? Can't you lead the country? You don't want anyone to live? What are these restrictions? I will tell you what are the restrictions on the mother of four children. And the mother of four children can't get credit in the bank unlike you because she has four children and a much weaker credit history than you do. She cannot obtain a post at the Saeima Bureau as Mrs Golubeva or as Minister of Foreign Affairs as Mr Rinkēvičs, because she has to raise four children. And you talk about human rights? For equal treatment? I'll talk about responsibility. I got married very quickly. I figured out to get married on date two. And, believe me, it is not expensive and can be done quickly. And marriage is, in fact, not a matter of respect for human rights or human rights, but it is a matter of responsibility. Accountability! And if you're not ready... heterosexual couple who live together - take responsibility for each other... and you want to just live together like you, then you'll count on the consequences. If someone is talking about the fact that expensive inheritance is because there's some kind of tax... Dear members of the coalition, reduce their tax once! And do not use it on the issue of the protection of human rights. Make a tax system so that every citizen of Latvia - that omite, who lives with another omite - can't draw ends... with the pension they both have - could be paid for registering the inheritance. And, by the way, heritage is also a matter of responsibility. We all know that we are mortal and that we will die sooner or later, and our responsibility is to write a will, whether or not we are married. If we are accountable to our children, to our family and to everything else, it is our task and it has nothing to do with human rights. It is therefore not necessary to change this issue in such a way that it is now a matter of discrimination or any other matter. Let us talk about one more chapter, the supporters of this project! You have the letters LG and 72 more letters that you use with all the iris, and I have nothing against the iris, I love them very much. Just like I have a very good relationship with gay people I know personally. We are all sinners, and every one of us has sin. And let each one decide who's the first to throw the stone, but there's one important thing. You're in a bisexual relationship. What Is Bisexualism? Bisexualism is a polygamy. Then get up in the workshop and say you want to legalize polygamy in Latvia? Legally legalise. We know that we also have some heterosexual couples, including among politicians who carry out or have conducted polygamy. And it can happen in life. This should not perhaps be condemned, but the question is: will we now legalise it in its legal form? Because, you know, when I... and that bisexual question has always been a very good example for me, so you can't choose which person you want to be together with? And we return to our responsibility. That means that you have no responsibility for one particular person, because you can't choose -- you'll be like that or that. And that has nothing to do with human rights. You know who has a connection with human rights? It is about human rights that all people in Latvia can work, all people can participate in the political process, all people in their homes can live the way they want, and they can go on the street, and they are protected by the Latvian police. And there may be incidents, but there may be incidents of this kind on both sides. Everyone. And that is not a matter of human rights either. And if we talk about responsibility, then all the young people who think you'll live together for a while, and then you'll see for a while, maybe they'll find something better - I would call, especially the guys, young guys, to learn responsibility for the girl you're with, and to learn this responsibility by going to the girl's parents and asking the girl's parents' hand. Taking responsibility, the young boy, you will have much more respect for your girl and her parents, and you will have a stronger family. I think it needs to be learned from the Saeima troop. I think it should be taught in the family - responsibility. And no responsibility... If you're simple, people, you live together... You have such a right, but you have to look at the consequences. If you did not want to take responsibility for the other person you live with, take account of the negative property consequences of an accident. And that's fair. And that has nothing to do with human rights either. So if you take responsibility, you marry your woman, and you say yes to your man. If you're not sure, then I don't understand why you people live together. That can be it. It happens very often, and I will not throw stone either. But without going into a lot of legal peripeties, let us talk only from a philosophical point of view. Answer to yourself, all these innocent couples, have you taken responsibility to the end? Responsibility for children, which is so lacking in our country, is responsibility for children. We have 40,000 children who don't pay aliments. We have countless single mothers... and in that spirit. And that's because we haven't raised responsibility. It is high time we started to raise our responsibilities. Back to the gay. Why am I going to vote in this 'yes' vote, which is against the registration of gay marriage? I do not want to discuss how many people are due and so on, but in democracy, unfortunately or fortunately, it is that the majority determines the rules of the game. And that is what you, the coalition, are always doing when you vote in favour of the interests of the people. You say: “Well, we are the majority, we vote like this. This is democracy.” Even Mrs Mūrniece from the Bureau Registry says that it is democracy. In Latvia, the majority of society is “to”. And we must respect the will of the majority. Even if we do not have to respect the will of the majority, we have to look at history, it is no progress, as Julia Stepanenko rightly said. From the time of the Roman Empire, the matter of gay people has been topical. For thousands of years, it has been a topical issue in various parts of history. It's neither progress nor regression. It is a cyclical set of events that change from time to time in hundreds of years. And in this whole event, I would like to ask all gays (including those I know well, with whom I have a good relationship): what would happen in society if we all - including me, I have already, but also me - if we all become gay? Where would our society go? What would be the result? And the Roman Empire, I think, is a good example. For all those who are now laughing at my speech in the liberal wing, I think this is a good example, because this example works at all stages of history. Because the country is as strong as traditional values. And the weaker the traditional values, the weaker the country gets when it's time to go. And it's true, you can only look at history. And it's not... It's not personal, it's history. Our country is already weak. Our country is uncompetitive. Our country is economically lagging behind most of Europe. Our country does not care for children. And we should start with the question of responsibility, not the less expensive way in which property relations will be conducted. If you want to facilitate property relations, reduce taxes - and you will achieve the same result. And yet... at the end. In our Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, to which you refer, for example, the expensive coalition, when it is necessary to hold the remote sittings of the Saeima, that it is the spirit of the Constitution and that it is provided for in the Constitution. There's a black on white written... I call on you to respect the Constitution. Until the Satversme has been amended. It can, of course, be changed, but until it is changed, I invite you to read about what you understand with your marriage in the territory of the Republic of Latvia, with your family. I understand that others... other thinking also wants the same construction, but the family is a family, and a different relationship is different. The relationship of two men is not a family in the context of the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. And it's fair to say it. Just as it's fair to say... I was on a journey with my friends, many years ago, there was one gay who I know well in this company. And he once said such a thing personal, sitting at the restaurant at the table. He said: “We gays should tax at all, because we are already using their infrastructure more.” It was like such a joke on his part. It was the company of friends that said it. And I don't want any hatred here or anything... But I want you to be honest about where you are, dear gays? Where? You can't get a job? Can't you better live like a four-child mom? Where are you discriminated against? But honestly! Where do you have a worse life than those who bring up three and four children? An honest answer! Because there is no such answer. And I think that because there is no such answer, it is necessary to vote in favour. All the rest is just political demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U33	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U34	Dear colleagues, Let me just remind you that the issue is just one thing to allow a collective application to move on or stop. Now just this choice... and nothing else. It is therefore necessary to ensure that same-sex partners have the opportunity to register their relationships or not to secure them. And let other challenges await their turn when there will be new collective submissions received at the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I simply call on you - do not allow yourself to be diverted from the decision path, this is very important. In other ways, we will soon be directed towards a completely different discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U35	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U36	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Democracy is not only a majority power, but democracy is also a respect for minorities and minority interests. Indeed, I agree that it is very bad that this principle is not always respected in our Saeima, that it is not always a coalition doing so, but it is not an excuse for the opposition also to ignore this fundamental principle. Society is developing, and if the legislator does not follow this development, it just becomes... then legislation becomes ineffective and not in the public interest at large. We hear about a traditional family here - Mom, Dad and their children together - but how much of all the families that currently exist in Latvia are formed by their traditional families? The absolute minority. So the state takes care of all families or families that... Where do children grow up from their previous marriages, including grandparents, or single - parent families? Is that... Yes, of course, the definition of marriage and so on, but what are these partnerships? In fact, people view it as a family. And I think that really, well, we shouldn't be archaic, shouldn't be dogmatic. There is a whole series of practical problems, and it is very well-listed, but it is clear that this vote is no longer about specific things - banks, loans and so on. This is a vote that determines whether the Latvian Parliament is capable of following the contemporary time... Today's challenges or we will remain to its archaic and dogmatic ideology. In principle, we will not stay anywhere, because I saw a similar debate in the Council of Europe and I also heard about a very similar debate in very many European parliaments. The absolute majority of the countries that we refer to as good examples have addressed this issue for a long time. There were no major problems there, not even very religious, very Catholic countries, however, voted with an absolute majority... not only in Parliament, but in a referendum. Now... Now, as Mr Pimenova reminded us, indeed, the question before us is a very simple one - or to talk about the substance of the matter or to pursue such an emergency policy that, no, such problems do not exist. We don't want to deal with them -- neither my pig, nor my ditch. We do not want to hear anything about the problems of families that are currently not recognised by law. I don't think it's worth... Parliament's behaviour is worthy, especially for a parliament that wants to see itself as a modern parliament. And I will vote against the Commission's proposal and I call on you, my fellow Members, to also vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U37	The name of the Member, Maria Golubeva, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U38	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I read somewhere that the first President of Latvia, Chakste, when a Member said to others in the Saeima: “You lie”, he argued that it was not compatible with the parliamentary discourse. So I won't say to some colleagues, "You lie." I will say, “You are saying false things.” Firstly, I never expected to remember my historian's education in the Saeima debate. I have a doctorate from the history of Cambridge University. I will tell both Mr Gobzem and Mrs Stepanenko - no, the Roman Empire has never had the opportunity to legally register men... two men's family or marriage or marriage... I don't care. It's never been. And what moralists, critics, including Christians, opposed about the fall of the Roman Empire, they opposed the degradation of human dignity. Whether it was an orgy or terrible... In some phenomenal manifestations of slavery, it was not a law that would protect relations between two people. The second thing I would like to oppose simply because it does not correspond to the truth is that we have been in favour of rejecting consistently other initiatives of MyaBalss.lv. I remember with complete certainty, Mr Dombrava, that we had a rather respectful discussion within the Commission on the initiative for the dismantling of the Pārdaugava monument. Was that not the case? What we are now offering is a respectful debate in the Commission on this citizens' initiative, which collected a certain number of signatures on the ManaBalss.lv portal. The rest is the subject of discussions between other commissions. And the last one. I think it is very important for us to be aware that what you are now saying about a lack of responsibility, that we are competing with the same-sex... I'm sorry, with a single parent with four children or a two-parent family with eight children... It is a shameless manipulation, because what you are now offering is to say: if someone has economic difficulties, then even if they have economic difficulties, or - if somewhere for us... Latvia's social protection for one category of population is not enough or not perfect, then we should not allow others the possibility of basic legal protection, which already exists in almost all European countries. The last one. The unwillingness of society - or rather, in this case, politicians - to allow people to register their relations is not due to the fact that morals, including Christian morality, are the strongest manifest here. There are very religious countries where people practice religion on a daily basis much more than in Latvia - Spain, Ireland and so on - and where it is possible... not only is the registration of partnerships possible, but even marriages possible. For colleagues, if we look at the European map, it has no connection with morality or Christianity. It has the closest connection with the heritage of Communism and an intolerant society ever, and now there are some intolerant politicians. Because society is already changing its attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U39	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Mrs. Lochmele, we can't hear you. We can't hear you. We can't hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U40	Do you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U41	Now we hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U42	(Sound rupture) ... the button is turned on one. You know, this debate reminded me of such a very unfortunate discussion because, in my opinion, when people are happy, they want all the other people around to be happy. And it is strange that if you looked at the list of European countries where the registration of same-sex marriage and partnership is recognised and compared to the list of the most happy countries, you would see a clear correlation. What I'd like to say about... Oh God, which has not been mentioned today! The National Association referred to a collective application for the demolition of the monument in Pārdaugava, other initiatives were mentioned, and everything was mentioned, Communism, politics and so on. I think all we should think about today is whether our country as a whole and we ourselves are so unhappy as not to allow other people to be happy. That's all. And I will vote against our parliamentary commission's decision to reject this collective application for two reasons. First of all, I will be consistent, because I have always voted absolutely in favour of examining collective submissions by all Latvian citizens in the Saeima and in the relevant commissions. Secondly, because I really want everyone in our country to be happy. Also through love for another person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U43	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U44	Dear colleagues, We, every Member, have been elected here in the Saeima through parties. Before the elections, we had this discussion with each of our constituents. Everyone must have had questions about this issue of same-sex couples. Me, too. To be honest, we represent - and I also represent - our constituents. My constituents elected me on certain terms and conditions. And I know the position of my constituents on this issue. Yeah, I'm a conservative, and I'll probably stay like that. But some Members have given rise to such reflections by making their own conclusions. One such conclusion was that here, let's not wait until... let us wait for the European Commission to force us to accept this matter, or so. Well, I do not want to agree with this, firstly, because it is not the European Commission that has elected us here; secondly, the position in the European Parliament, and also in the Commission, is not clear, especially because, as we can see, there is a contradiction between conservative views and liberal views on a global scale. We all expect a result that will be President of America - Trump or Baden. If there's a Trump that's a conservative, there'll be one scene... very cardinal. And also in Europe, these liberal positions are gradually losing their weight. We see this in elections in many Member States of the European Union. Conservatives in power - Great Britain, Poland, just Lithuania. Here, too, in Latvia, the representation of the practically conservative parties is in the majority. Unfortunately, there is no unity in Parliament... And in fact, this vote will be the attitude of every Member to whom... to whom he then remains - to the Conservatives or the Liberals. All due respect to all Members, but we must vote without pressure, special pressure, change of opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U45	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U46	Dear colleagues, Today, there was a lot of emotional speeches. And really here the question is i about discrimination, i about rights, i about a modern approach or old-fashioned approach and so on, and so on. Today, by the way, there was another very discriminated person at the Saeima building... representatives... representatives of the human group. I am talking about the tenants of denationalised houses, which the country has really placed in a discriminated position, rather than the situation of life itself. But here we are talking about something else, and I also understand why the relevant decision of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications appeared. Here, too, probably... there was talk about values, about discrimination, about solutions, about everything else, not just about procedures. Because it often turns out to us that all the initiatives that come with 10 thousand and more signatures are stuck then either in the Saeima corridors, corridors or offices or in the Cabinet. There are countless examples of this. And in this case, it is very important, however, that any initiative be evaluated in several stages and stages, including this initiative, which has led to a division - a radical division! - attitude. That is why I think that, in this case, it is not quite in line with the idea that the legislators intended to introduce into our legislation a standard such as the examination of 10 000 and more Latvian citizens' initiatives in the Saeima. I think that its discussions are still ahead of us. And it is very difficult to say which approach will ultimately be won - modern and permissive, not permissive, or someone else. But in any case, that must be the case. And for that first stage it would be very wrong not only in this case, but also in other cases, that this type of initiative would have been cut from the very beginning, just as they enter the walls of the Saeima. However, I would call for this not to support the decision of the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications and to enable events to develop in the way they will evolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U47	The name to Member Arthur Tom Pleš for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U48	Good afternoon, colleagues, again. Thank you for the debate here. The issue of traditional values has also been raised in various ways. I just wanted to understand what these traditional values are. Is it divorce? Is it violence against women? Is it that children are born outside marriage in almost half of the unmarried households? Or is it that in some countries, let us say, the right of women to decide their own body? Colleagues, if these are the traditional values that people defend, we need to think twice whether we really want to go on this path. I call once again for this draft decision not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U49	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U50	Dear colleagues, In reply to Mrs Golubeva, I would just like to remind you that in fact I have not already said anything new. I use the same reasoning as Mrs Golubeva himself used in one of the Latvian radio programmes, saying that same-sex marriages existed, relations existed very often in history, and she referred directly to her experience as a historian. Therefore, I would like to look at this in a very different plane that, despite the fact that humanity has tried various forms of cohabitation, completely different, and has experimented for heart's pleasure, humanity has also remained on the only safest form of cohabitation. It's a family - Mom, Dad and Child. That's why... Finally. Perhaps I'm also concluding this debate... And I've already applied for the second time... I just wanted to call on the honourable voters, who I hope are following this debate, and who have voted for their Members in Latgale, Riga, to follow how these Members, who are currently largely silent, vote. Please note that this vote... Once again, the 'yes' vote actually means the vote against same-sex marriages. And if you voted for your candidates who have become Members and are currently occupying seats for Members of the Saeima, if you voted for them, believing him... Trusting in their promise to protect these traditional values, please record how these Members will vote today. Because we also had a number of brochures in the run-up to the elections, where many Members promised to protect family values, traditional values and expressed their views on this very important issue to the voters in various ways. Therefore, honourable colleagues and honourable voters, please follow along, look at the fingers of your Members. And I remind you, the vote on the committee's decision means the vote on same-sex marriage... registration of relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U51	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U52	Thank you. Yeah, now I want a little bit of a partnership between a man and a woman... because we often hear that a partnership has to be registered, because a couple do not want to go to the listing office, but they are willing to go across the street where the partnership will be registered. Well, that's a complete illusion. The question is really about responsibility, as some speakers have said here. If we have thousands of alimonys who have even registered, why do people like the partnership? Because there's no responsibility there. And there was mention of ancient Rome, although it must be acknowledged that there were various forms of this relationship already in ancient Greece. But I'll just refer to Livonia. So the chronicity of Baltzar Rusova Livonian. These partnerships were widespread, even though many are now calling for new and modern times. And then what does Rusov write in this chronicle of Livonia? He says that when kings, bishops, bishops, and the rest of the German nation, who should be better understood, had fallen victim to these immoralitys, I also did not gather the foolish farmers who led such immoral, so - called and epic life as they had never experienced in Christendom. The great crowd of farmers did not want to know from marriage. If his wife was old or sick, or if he did not like it, he rejected it and took another one. If someone asked the farmer why he was living out of marriage, the answer was that he was an old habit of Livonia and their fathers were living in such a way. Some farmers answered this question by saying that the innocent were also teaching to eat bread as the islanders. So the situation changed literally at the time of the reform, and especially at the time when these large families were born... Hey, hey. And I therefore stress once again that we are not opposed to the protection of these interests by different couples, whatever they call, but let us not deceive ourselves and continue to talk about many families. And we won't register, let's say, a fundamental Islamist family with four wives or a paedophile family or someone else. That's why... And, Mrs Bauman, I would also like to ask: there is no need to demolish the concept of marriage. A man and a woman can only be married for the purpose of creating children, and the rest of us can be called in other words. The trend towards this new language is unacceptable. And there is no new time, as we see and compare this desire with, say, the Greek period, the Roman period or the Livonian period. Therefore, I think that we should strongly vote in this case in favour of this committee decision and really work on a real law for the protection of interests, as I said, for all couples, but it is outside the area of family law. So it can be, as I said, about a registered household, either about care rights, or in some other way, that lawyers should develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U53	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U54	Thank you. Two comments. Note 1: When we talk about values, we usually talk about values in general. There are, let us say, 10 commandments, where everything good is listed, which is bad. If we talk about values in general, it is the beginning of good negotiations and no more. Because values are always very specific. And the other. What Mrs Stepanenko said, what Mr Kirstein just said. This vote is not about same-sex marriages or same-sex marriages; this is a question... this is a vote on whether to see this problem as such in the Saeima Commission. Because if this draft law, which is presented as a proposal, goes on, it will have a very different... There will be a different attitude to it and other votes. That is why what is voted on today is a vote on the procedure, not on the substance of the matter, which is extremely important. And it is important not only today, but also in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U55	The name of Member Regina Lochmele for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U56	Hello, colleagues! I wanted to respond to Mrs Stepanenko. You know, I feel like the Middle Ages and preparations for the autodaphy procedure. However, today is the 21st century. And I believe that a Member who started her wish from the list of "Harmons" is simply not a collegiate expression in the spirit and to the tone you have just allowed. Thank you. I call on all Members to vote in accordance with their conscience and their views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U57	Colleagues! Let us finish this question and then decide on a break. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U58	Good afternoon, colleagues! There is a wide-ranging debate. We have heard almost all of Latvia's 100 sexopathologists, and everyone has their own views on it. I, for my part, would like to join Mr Dolgopolova's view here. We are talking here about procedure. So 10,392 people have submitted something and want further examination. That is democracy. And in this case it is that they submitted it already, if I don't beg you, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth week in a row. If we do not support this again after the procedure, then there will be a new proposal for us next week and we will once again talk cross-section about the same. I would like to remind you that this parliamentary sitting is not intended to discuss and discuss the topical issues of the Commission. There is indeed a commission for this. I think this ringing guy won't stop. And I also believe that this new ensemble of dance, which could be created, should be made into the duly named commission, so that people work. I call on all parties involved to discuss this side, side by side and so on. But we don't do this here, this sitting of the Saeima. Otherwise, we will be doing weekly to reject one of the citizens' initiatives presented by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. I cannot compare this citizens' initiative with the Victory Monument, let's say, what was the collection of signatures for the Victory Monument... How was it... There were - some had collected signatures for dismantling, others wanted to rename and so forth. We can call it back, but they are not completely comparable... these initiatives. This initiative is coming. Society wants to go further. I believe that the Commission should give this question on the table. It's going to get out of a completely different... in a completely different form, it will be completely different material. Legal, with some of its past. It won't happen in a week. So that - let us go ahead and we do not repeat this debate every week. So, let the commission work. Well, then we'll see what's going to happen, because as far as I understand from Mrs. Bluke, it's the next initiative that's ready for others... other initiatives... that this family stay next to one room and some kind of protection... I have a very bright example, let us suppose, of Maxim's tragedy. There was a civil man with a civil wife, let's assume, and they didn't register as a husband and wife. And then the widow that perished did not receive anything, because the law simply does not provide for it. But as far as I can see, it could appear next week. Then we could bring together these two initiatives in the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs and come up with what we have tried to say, perhaps Francisco (the pope), both what the Ombudsman has tried to say, and what we have tried to say at the Saeima door, and well, something needs to be clear. And you know very well that everything is developing and flowing, so I think we are giving the opportunity for the commission to work. It is as if it were the same Members who are present at this parliamentary sitting, and this debate is going to develop there, not in this parliamentary sitting. So we're going on a business day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U59	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U60	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to express my gratitude for the various points of view. The Commission has seen and, on the basis of the collection of various opposing opinions, a decision has been drawn up, which I call for support and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U61	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On further progress of the 10 392 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Registration of Uniflorous Partners””! Please, let's vote! For - 55, for - 30, for - 1. Consequently, a decision has been taken. Dear colleagues, The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking to announce a period of one-and-a-half hours for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”. So the Defence Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission is asking for a break - one and a half hours - by... by 16:15. By 16.15 a.m. We have to decide on a break. Please... Can we vote for a break? Please call me! Let's vote for a break by 4.15 p.m.! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, a decision has been taken. So it's a break until 4:15 p.m. Prior to that, two statements. Name: Juris Rancāns, Chairman of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U62	Colleagues! The meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - immediately, in five minutes, in remote mode. I will look forward to all Members and stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U63	Thank you. The name is Arvil Asheraden, Chairman of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U64	Hello! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is convened in 13 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U65	Thank you. The procedure has been applied for by Member Arthur Tom Ples, but we will probably be talking about it after a break. In addition, the participants of the meeting... Registration of Members. Members' registration has been successful. Interruption until 16.15 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U66	Dear colleagues, So we have decided to return to the Saeima meeting room at 16:15. I would like to inform you all that the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption is still working and that the suspension is extended until the Bureau's subsequent decision. So the Commission is continuing, and we will also look at these draft laws at second, final, final reading today. So we are planning another extraordinary session of the Saeima today to review the final reading of the draft law on Covid-19 infection management. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U67	Honourable Members! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. Thus, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has completed its work on the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management”. We are going to convene a second extraordinary meeting today for the consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”. But while the draft law is being prepared, we will continue... we will continue to examine the agenda of the sitting. The agenda shall include the examination of requests made by Members. Opinion of the Appeals Board Thus, Members Ivars Zariņa, Ivans Ribakova, Jānis Tutina, Regina Lochmeles-Lunivs, Valeria Agešina, Boris Cileviča, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Nikolai Kabanov and Vjačeslav Dombrovskis request the Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Vitenbergs on the work of the Ministry of Economics in relation to the results of “OIC power plants”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U68	Welcome, colleagues. The Panel examined the request made by Members Ivars Zariņa, Ivana Ribakova, Jānis Tutina, Regina Lochmeles-Lunova, Valeria Agešina, Boris Cileviča, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Nikolaja Kabanova and Vjačeslav Dombrovsky, Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Vitenbergs, about the work of the Ministry of Economics in relation to the results of the “OIC power plants” tests (No. 31/P13) and, by voting in favour, 8 against and one abstention, admitted that the request made by Members should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U69	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U70	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Members! I would like to remind you of the substance of the request: firstly, to provide information on the decisions taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in relation to the inspections of OIC stations carried out by the public energy trader; secondly, to provide information on the transfer of documents held by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the State Building Control Office, which is entrusted with the task of supervising those stations from 1 January. I would like to point out that on the results of the power plants' inspections, the Ministry of Economics... The Ministry of Economy has already informed members of the Saeima several times during previous ministers, and there have been two requests on 15 January and 3 March to which all this requested information has been submitted. And all the EPT inspection protocols, i.e. all station inspection protocols, as well as all the decisions taken by the Ministry of Economics prior to the end of last year relating to controls, have been submitted to the Saeima. Title Two: I would then remind you that from 1 January 2020 the monitoring and control of OIC power plants is carried out by the State Construction Control Bureau. And the Ministry, through a document management system, has made available to the State Building Control Office all information on these inspections carried out and all related data. The Head of the State Construction Control Bureau also admitted that it has been possible to see all these documents and get to know them, and to take further decisions. And now, taking over the monitoring of mandatory procurement and control functions, currently primarily the State Construction Control Bureau evaluates the electricity plant activity reports submitted by the merchant for 2019, paying particular attention to the self-consumption of electricity from power plants. The evaluation process for the annual report shall take into account the information contained in the test reports of the ERA and other information available on the power plants. As a result, 11 stations have withdrawn this year's OIC permit. So the job's started. We have also amended various regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers in order to announce these inspection functions and transfer tools to the Office of State Audit Office of Construction. At its meeting on 23 September this year, the Appeals Board decided to recognise the request made by Members (No. 31/P13) is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U71	Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, Janis Wittenberg. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U72	Okay. Can you see me now? Well, colleagues! A lot has been said about responsibility in the Saeima, about obedience to the law, about evident things. I listened carefully to what the Minister said. And I'm going to try to show you with proven things that the truth is completely different from what was currently interpreted. You will be able to make sure that in fact the OIK afēra continues and in fact the Ministry of Economics... All the facts at our disposal show us that the Ministry of Economics continues to cover this area. I'm sorry. How did this request arise? As the Minister for Economic Affairs rightly pointed out, on several occasions we have asked the Ministry for Economic Affairs to account for all this. And that is why we should have done this on several occasions - because, unfortunately, every time we asked very specific questions, we received very unspecific answers. About that was... said something like that, from the beginning, everyone was told (as you are now told), that the Ministry has worked strawberries, that it has checked everything, that these stations have been tested at all, and that the Ministry of Economics has assessed it all further, and that it has really happened to everyone in good faith. But when we started asking specific questions - here's where there are protocols, because really these protocols are not the first time, but we managed... And that was once again one of the reasons why it was necessary to ask several times for these protocols to be finally obtained... the test reports. By showing concrete evidence from these protocols, it has proved that the Ministry of Economics has not decided on this. Well, we take the next example, we ask again, it turns out again that the Ministry of Economics has not decided. What's the story about? So a little bit about a broader context. Why... Why did we even have to stick to it? So, as you remember, one of the essential components of the OIC phase (in order to implement it) is that the stations were not actually tested. We borrowed someone... One year I had to fight to prove it. First of all, in order to prove from the outset that these tests did not really exist, because the Ministry of Economics insisted that this was not the case. It was already in the previous Saeima that the stations were being inspected, and then we, just like now with the facts, proved with documents that nothing similar was happening. Finally, the Ministry of Economics acknowledged this and agreed that these checks should be carried out and entrusted the public electricity trader with carrying out these checks. These inspections therefore started realistically in the second half of 2018 - from summer. And all the stations were tested within a year... professional. So all stations were tested by the second half of 2019. These inspection reports were submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. As if it seems that the Ministry of Economics, which always talks about having no resources, can't check it, it doesn't have the necessary specialists and the like... Then, here you were put on a tray, and the documents were submitted to the Ministry of Economics. The inspections were carried out in 2018 and 2019 (I will remind you). The Ministry of Economics to... what it has stated is that it has worked on the results for 2018. We asked how then the Ministry of Economics was able to verify the results of these checks. You have just heard that it has also been said that the Ministry of Economics has done all this. When we started to really test it with concrete examples, take these protocols and these protocols... I think the Members of the Petitions Commission well remember this. We took very specific examples. Rather than figure out something, in order to make sure what the Ministry of Economics is telling us, we took these protocols and started to read and ask specifically: “This is where a concrete fact is recorded.” Self-consumption of electricity was mentioned. Indeed, it is one such thing of principle and one of the more widespread frauds, namely that businessmen are cheating in the following way, although the law... In my opinion, Article 30 of the Electricity Market Act makes it clear that only that part of the electricity that has remained after consumption can be sold for this increased tariff in compulsory procurement. Often traders, using the fact that the Ministry of Economics had not controlled it, sold almost all the electricity... electricity produced at this increased tariff, but bought it for itself cheaply from Latvenergo. And then we specifically drew out concrete examples where it is recorded, where black and white protocols record this incredibly low self-consumption, that is, if it is known that this technology cannot have a self-consumption of less than 10 or even 20 percent, but there is a record that the self-consumption is 0.1 percent, either, but obviously something is not right and ought to be checked or properly acted. This is already, in essence, the fact that fraud is taking place in particular in large amounts. What did the Ministry of Economics do? The Ministry of Economics did nothing. It has now told you how everything has been tested and made decisions. We took these concrete facts - where? So, talking about the last sittings that have already taken place in this - 2020. - in 2018, we adopted the inspection protocol, which was implemented in 2018, which was held by the Ministry of Economic Affairs for a year. And the Ministry of Economics... where is black on white visible, where has been recorded by these testers that it has taken place here... These facts point to apparent fraud. What has the Ministry of Economics done? In most cases, it has done nothing or what it has done afterwards... After we had another demand... upon that request, it began to issue warnings concerning such infringements. Instead of resorting to such facts, which are obvious fraud in particular large amounts, to law enforcement authorities with an application and saying: “Here we have discovered, here we see... Here is the fact that fraud is particularly high. Please check. Please initiate criminal proceedings... “, in almost no case did they... almost in any case. And this can also be demonstrated by the members of the Petitions Commission who were there. We actually took the following practical cases. What's interesting? That we had this previous request, which was at the beginning of this year, when we took these real examples and protocols with real facts and showed how these frauds were covered here and that no decisions had been made on them or, on the contrary, in order to cover up another offence, to say: ‘Yes, yes, we have responded to this, we have already issued a warning’. Then we found out what the warning was about. The warning was not at all about it. More! Then, instead of being warned, it should have been referred to the law enforcement authorities, as I said, because it is realistic... real proof... a fact that shows that fraud is particularly high... This has not been done by the Ministry of Economics, so they are covered. And you know what happened? This request, which we dealt with at the beginning of this year, which contained real facts, and which can be found in the Record of the Panel on Petitions (which is all there is to be heard), simply disappeared. We have still not seen it here until the Saeima sitting. And there's a valid question: how do we have the rule of law and the fight here... the fight against irregularities promised by that? That is why we prepared the next request, but this next request has unfortunately already been dealt with remotely, and this sitting (this is already... So it was more than half a year, we took these protocols again, we took a concrete example of this protocol, where the businessman... Here is this protocol. I can't... I won't call... In order not to infringe the conditions for the dissemination of limited information, the operator should not be specifically named. He's sitting... At the sitting, it was talked about, where again black on white... Here's the protocol where the technology is recorded... this technology, this organic Fixing Cycle... Sets the cycle. That's objective, well, 20 percent... It will be a uniquely efficient technology with a 20% self-consumption rate. Here, black on white is recorded as 0.1 percent self-consumption. It is hundreds of times smaller than it could actually (even theoretically) be possible. This Decision is addressed to the Federal Republic of Germany. This has been at the disposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. What has the Ministry of Economics done? What has it done? Has this or any case been brought been suspended? No, no. This businessman throughout 2019 (I repeat, the protocol has been drawn up... test protocol in 2018)... has received an OIC of hundreds of thousands throughout 2019. So the Ministry of Economics is doing this action (this is just one example)... has covered fraud, which has cost the whole of society hundreds of thousands. And this is just one example, I recall. There are stripes here - you can just take it and strip right away... identify and start action on such cases within a few minutes. The Ministry of Economics had not done so all this year. Year! With that... five minutes. That's just one of the facts I'm showing you right now. Therefore, colleagues, I think you have heard two different truths today. One - what the Minister for Economics said, the other - is what I tell you here with concrete facts. I think all of these things are worth supporting this request here today and finding out to the Saeima, as is actually the case, who is right then. I am ready to answer for every word. I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs is also prepared to answer for his words. It would, therefore, only be right to take it and find out what is actually happening. Is it really what the Ministry of Economics says, or is it actually what I am for you today... I have now demonstrated with the facts that, in fact, the Ministry of Economics has continued to cover the entire time with a series of frauds, particularly on a large scale, without taking the necessary decisions without taking the necessary action. More than that. There is one interesting nuance that we have not managed to find out at all in the Committee on Petitions. What about those test reports? Because at one time... There is one thing told by the Minister for Economics, but when I turned to the State Building Control Office in summer to find out if indeed all the protocols have been transferred to the State Construction Control Office, the State Building Control Office replied that they only have protocols for 2019. On the other hand, those protocols which are for 2018 (and there are more than 100 protocols) - there was no proof that they would have been handed over. And here comes a very interesting thing. Look, the Ministry of Economics has this fraud, it takes off this year, because you know it's still a year to go, and then everything after a year - it won't have to do anything. It hides these frauds - they are not taking the necessary decisions. And then they are taken over by the State Construction Control Office, but the State Construction Control Office has not been given these protocols, which could then be evaluated by this new institution. And only after I started asking these questions and finding out how it really is, I realize that some process has begun. But it would be very important to find out whether indeed the Ministry of Economics had transferred these protocols in time, because I did not receive such a reply and such confirmation from either the State Building Control Office or the Ministry of Economics. Because when the Ministry of Economics said that it had handed over such protocols, I asked: “Give me the case number, show me where it was, transfer this case.” Where these are documents which have been transmitted to the public authorities, they should have been fixed in accordance with the requirements of the record-keeping procedure. The Ministry of Economics has failed to show me what leads me to think that it was actually an attempt to manipulate this fraud in order to conceal it. In particular, while the Ministry of Economics was responsible for this, it did not take the necessary decisions, and then these documents will leak. Then comes the new authority and works out of its range of materials, from the information at its disposal. Or even more - as is currently the case - when there are parts of the stations which have not yet been subject to these inspections, which have allegedly been carried out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs for one period, and there is a further period for which it is already possible to carry out a state building control office - which shows that the Ministry of Economics has carried out these frauds. When I mentioned these facts that the Ministry of Economics had not responded to for a year, the State Audit Office for Construction said: “Yes, we know that, we are now working with it.” So for years the Ministry of Economics did nothing, it knew these facts, we all continued to pay hundreds of thousands in this one case. All in all, it will be millions, I think, what will be able to demonstrate calmly, because, as I said, a series of... Tens... Right away... It can be seen in a few minutes that these frauds have been committed in a number of ways. And every case of this -- it's hundreds of thousands, maybe even millions. And the Ministry of Economics did nothing. And that it was... has not taken these necessary actions, as is confirmed by the fact that the State Building Control Office, which has not so far been involved in covering this area and has not formed the whole of this game, immediately saw that there is fraud here and there is something to do with it. Therefore, my fellow Members, I think that this would be our duty, first and foremost the duty of the political forces who promised with foam on their lips that they would come here to fight for the rule of law, for justice, for theft of a state, that they would support this request today. Otherwise, dear colleagues from the New Conservative Party come together so that you are ready to fight theft of a state, with these illegal activities only if you cannot participate in them yourself. If that is not the case, today I expect us to support this request and here in the Saeima, to be clear - which has actually been the case in the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the last year. What it has actually done. Thank you, colleagues. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U73	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U74	On behalf of the Commission, colleagues, I can only remind you that the request made by Members in the Commission was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U75	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Ivana Ribakova, Jānis Tutina, Regina Lochmeles-Lunova, Valija Agešina, Boris Cileviča, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Nikolaja Kabanova and Vjačeslav Dombrovsky, Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Vitenbergs, about the work of the Ministry of Economics in relation to the results of the “OIC power stations” tests! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 55, for - 2. The request is rejected. On the agenda, the Members Ivara Zariņa, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Ivana Klementyeva, Valeria Agešina, Vitaly Orlova, Jānis Krišāns, Jānis Urbanoviča, Vladimira Nikonova, Borisa Cileviča and Nikolaja Kabanov apply to the Minister of Economics Janis Vitenbergs “On the fulfilment of the task assigned to the Ministry of the Economy by the Ministry of the Electricity Market in connection with the report submitted by the Saeima on the compliance of subsidised power plants with State aid conditions”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U76	Yes, colleagues! Let's go. The Panel examined the request made by Members Ivara Zariņa, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Ivana Klementyeva, Valeria Agešina, Vitaly Orlova, Jānis Krišāns, Jānis Urbanoviča, Vladimira Nikonova, Borisa Cileviča and Nikolaja Kabanov to the Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Vitenbergs “On the fulfilment of the task assigned to the Ministry of the Economy by the Ministry of the Electricity Market in connection with the report submitted by the Saeima on the compliance of subsidised power plants with State aid conditions” (No. 32/P13) and, by voting in favour, 8 against and one abstention, admitted that the request made by Members should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U77	Let's start a debate. The name of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U78	Yes! Request (No) 32/P13) and its essence is to provide information on how implementation of Paragraph 89 of the Transitional Provisions of the Electricity Market Law will be ensured - to submit a report to the Saeima by 1 October of this year. And two blocks. First. On monitoring the obligation imposed by the ECJ... control the activities of electricity producers to ensure prevention of overcompensation and recovery of unlawful state aid - performance results. And the other. Information about the last three years of self-consumption of electricity producers... ‘Distributive grid’ data on actual flows of electricity under current connection schemes, as well as power plant performance. I would like to point out to Members that on 1 October this year, the Ministry of Economics submitted to the Saeima this report on the results of the operational control of electricity producers receiving support under compulsory procurement. And the report is structured in two parts. The first is the requirement in paragraph 89 of the Transitional Provisions of the Electricity Market Law that we inform the Saeima about the results of the performance of the obligations. As this Article has been included in the law as of 15 February 2020, the report also reflects this situation and information on the results of the implementation of the Article as of 15 February 2020. This is the time that the State Building Control Office has taken to monitor these stations. And the second block in the report - including information about the last three years of self-consumption of electricity producers, “Distributive grid” data on actual flows of electricity under current connection schemes, as well as power plant performance. Since we had submitted the information requested, the Board of Appeal decided, at its meeting on 23 September, to declare that the request made by Members (No. 32/P13) must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U79	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U80	Yes, that is the demand. Why was this request made? Let me explain first. The fact is that an unavoidable component of the OIC's afer, so that the afer can be implemented at all and be implemented for as long as it has been done so far, is the need to hide information. Hide information, manipulate this information, or present this information, extracted from context, because it can preserve this alternative truth, create an alternative reality for the real circumstances of the case. And what I also showed you, as the Ministry of Economics has done so far with the results of these tests... That's why it's early... We asked in good time, we prepared this request. And this request was indeed due to the fact that the law provided for this paragraph on the submission of such a report. Message... And here are the basic things in this report. The report on the OIC system - so to submit to the Ministry of Economic Affairs a report to the Saeima for the last three years (this is therefore a principle nuance, I will explain it later)... For three years, these OIC stations have fulfilled the conditions for aid, i.e. whether they meet all the relevant requirements, i.e. self-consumption, useful heat, plant efficiency and so on. The other thing. What specifically the supervisory authorities - in this case, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Office for State Control of Construction - have done, as they have done. Why was this point put? Why did this happen at all? And why did we have to start monitoring in time? Because, when we made previous amendments to the Electricity Market Law (which were made before this Saeima, the last, previous Saeima), due to the approaching elections, the previous Saeima was ready to accept the amendments to the law that would sort out this OIC sphere, would allow it to be terminated. In other words, there was a principle... In principle, simple but long-lasting things are needed: real checks must be made that aid is only due to economic operators who fulfil the conditions for aid. On the other hand, operators who fail to comply with the conditions for aid or fraud must withdraw the aid and the aid unlawfully paid must be recovered. On the other hand, those eligible for this aid must be proportionate, not excessive. Unfortunately, we did not get to pass this law in the previous Saeima. When this new parliamentary term came, as if with those political forces who had promised to fight this scene, they simply depreciated the draft law from the beginning, and then the draft law was revised in principle. And it was precisely because of the effort of the Ministry of Economics that was in principle redrafted. As a result, almost nothing remained to be done from this draft law. All that we were going to put was removed from the bill, and it was planned that once again it would be the Ministry of Economics, which will be able to play everything with its rules. The only thing that we managed to fight was to defend, which remained in this draft law, and which is now also a requirement of the law - that is, this report that the Ministry of Economics will have to submit this report. As I said, why is this report important? Because if it is submitted in the form provided for in the law, that is to say, for a sufficiently long period of time, and in a section as it was... As the law provided for, we are, in principle, getting a viviary for the last years of this OIC. With which... It will be such an obvious picture, with which it will be very difficult to manipulate, very difficult to hide. Knowing that the Ministry of Economics usually does not want to provide this information and that it is very difficult for us to obtain this objective picture of what is going on, we prepared this request by asking the Ministry of Economics to account in good time for how it sees that request should look. The replies provided by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to this request showed that the Ministry of Economics has understood this task and is prepared to do so. That surprised us unexpectedly. However, now that this report, which has already been presented, has unfortunately come to the conclusion that the Ministry of Economics has remained faithful to its style, the way it has tried to cover this OIC area for all these years. I mean, the Ministry of Economics is ready to do just what it's just like with a hammer nail... The law is moving forward. If it is possible in some way to begin to interpret and play something, then the Ministry of Economics will certainly try to do so, so that there is no need to take action that could expose this OIC. Here too, if we get to know this report and I assume that we will need to get to know this report, I assume that sometime the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commissions... at least at the meeting of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, this report will be examined and the Ministry of Economics will be able to report on it, and not we will need to continue here with requests for this information, then there will be a number of interesting things. One thing you'll see right away in this report, and that's a matter of principle... As this report is for these three years, it includes a period of time for which the Ministry of Economics seems to have controlled everything, but now we know that it did not have much control over anything there and that no real verification mechanism had been put in place... that this report covers both this period, when these real checks have not been carried out, and the period, when these real checks have started. And thanks to this time period, there is a very interesting breakdown of information that is now available to all those who want to get acquainted with this scene and about whom... which should be decided in the context of this aperture. In particular, you will see a very large number of economic operators, whom, let us say, these performance indicators, the basic performance indicators laid down by the laws that should have been observed - they are fundamentally changing. Therefore, without any change in production conditions, they suddenly start to change substantially. This shows that there have been obvious manipulations. More! For many of these operators, these indicators have not even changed significantly, they have been obviously inadequate... Let's say, this same self-consumption... These reports contain stations that have self-consumption, as I have already mentioned, tens, hundreds of times less than actually (in theory) it would be possible under all laws of physics. It is a pity that this report was not presented to us by the Ministry of Economic Affairs earlier. If it had submitted it before the Nobel Prize in physics was shared, we could have applied to our businessmen who have discovered new laws on physics, new laws on energy, which could lead us to unrealisticly efficient technologies. We have a break in science that we could implement and make a revolution around the world in the field of energy... in accordance with this report. I assume that the Ministry of Economics was just shy, it somehow didn't want to express it to the whole world. Probably... maybe we've come up with some plan, maybe according to the new marketing plan that we in the country are supposed to have, that the country will now have a place where something creative, something new emerges, and in this context, we'll look at that report further. If that's not the case, then the other option that leaves... then it means that the Ministry of Economics has simply been covered - this report shows - by fraud, obvious fraud for years. And they're there. If you open... It's just tight, tens... is immediately visible. And in each of them, they're... if not hundreds... if not a million, then hundreds of thousands, entie, entie thousands. And that is obvious in this report. There are even more phenomenal things that the Ministry of Economics has reported to it, which it has known: where, in general, the trader has produced less electricity than he has delivered to the network than he has sold for this increased tariff. And what do you think there's some reaction there? Is there a criminal case under way? No, no. You're not gonna find anything there. More! In this report, I don't know why the Ministry of Economics is... have been broken down into their sections. There are sections about wind parks, about hydropower plants, where, of course, the use of useful heat or self-consumption... They are minimal and where fraud, if any, is negligible. And there, the Ministry of Economics shows how it has checked what decisions have been made. On the other hand, when the chapter on these cogeneration plants begins, where the issue of useful heating is important, on the self-consumption of electricity, you will not find what the Ministry of Economics has done there. But if you take the message... In this report, you can clearly see that there is fraud there. And in this section, if the report, let us say, did not get acquainted with the law enforcement bodies, the State Police, perhaps the Prosecutor General's Office, there could be many interesting questions that should be answered - primarily to the Ministry of Economics. And I think there would also be an issue for the Anti-Corruption Office about why... how these officials in the Ministry of Economic Affairs have monitored all that they have done with this information, why they have not done so. And this is very serious information for the existing minister for reflection. Because most of these cases took place before you took up your post. So it has not been directly linked to your political action. But if now you, knowing that there are these facts, are the obvious ones of this fraud, do not act or do anything about it, then it will also be not only your political responsibility, but perhaps also your criminal responsibility for the fact that you are now covering this fraud in a particularly large amount. All the more so as the law provides for an obligation and an opportunity to recover this unlawfully paid aid. If you do not do the right thing now, but do the right thing for those who have made it and those who are your political business partners in your power cartel, then you will be jointly responsible. You will be accountable to everything that has happened. And also, my fellow Members, today, all of you who will vote against this request will not support it and you will not want to find out - this will show the public that you have lied to the fact that, in fact, what you have told you that you care about the rule of law, fairness in this country, was simply to deceive the public to be in power and then to ignore it all. I therefore call on us today to support this request. If you don't support it... You don't think you're going to get rid of all this! In the previous parliamentary term, those parties that covered all of this thought too, and you yourself see where they are now, what fate has found them. They were saved. It was saved only because it was possible to build, say, a massive media campaign of alternative truth and to deceive the public on what is actually happening before the elections... and what they are ready to do. If it had been possible for the public to learn the truth about what was happening, many would probably not sit here in this Saeima, they would be sitting in another place. What is going to happen at the moment... The situation has changed in principle at the moment. If someone could have played before, hide this information, now this information is known. It's a bear, an apocalypse bear, it's a cross, and you can look at it and you can see everything. It can't be hidden anymore. And now only the question is: will you, those who are now responsible for the energy sector or who are responsible for the rule of law in this country, or will you act? Will you take action to respond correctly to this information and to take appropriate action or will you try to hide it and become responsible for it all? In a democratic state (and I assume that Latvia will ever really be) no one has power forever. This means that there will be a new broom, just as you have come, and maybe you will already have to be responsible for what you have done now, even though you now feel you are in all permissive, you can do what you want, you will not have to answer for anything. But I try again in time, collegially, to warn you that this is no longer the case. At the moment, what has happened has succeeded in achieving this basic information, which has been given in such a cut, in such a division that it can no longer be hidden, and someone will have to answer for all this. And I am calling that we begin to be clear here in the Saeima on time for ourselves. If we don't... If you don't want to do it now, you'll still have to do it, but it's even more harsh. I call on us to work together to resolve and deliver on our promises to our constituents. Otherwise, not you will be the one investigating it, but you will investigate your actions, and you will have to be responsible for it, given that you will be covered up with it. And that is my call to the Minister for Economics to give serious consideration to their follow-up: to get to know this report, to ask their responsible officials how they feel. If there is no clarity, we will help to be clear, as I promised at the beginning. I will help you, Minister for Economic Affairs, to get to grips with this. You want it or you don't want it, we're gonna do it with an aero. We are very close to having the basic things in this story. I therefore call on you to make sure that this is the case and to support this request, and also to get to know the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U81	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U82	On behalf of the Commission, colleagues, I would just like to remind you that this request has also been rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U83	Please call me! We will vote for a Member Ivara Zariņa, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Ivana Klementyeva, Valija Agešina, Vitaly Orlova, Janis Krišāns, Jānis Urbanoviča, Vladimira Nikonova, Borisa Cileviča and Nikolaja Kabanov's request to the Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Vitenbergs "On the fulfilment of the task assigned to the Ministry of the Economy by the Ministry of the Electricity Market in connection with the report submitted by the Saeima on the compliance of subsidised power plants with State aid conditions"! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 54, for - 1. The request is rejected. The request made by Members Linda Liepiņa, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Didža Šmita, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Viktora Valaiņa, Julia Stepanenko, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Lubova Švekova, Karina Srūre, Armanda Krauze and Alda Gobzema to the Minister of Finance Janis Reiras “On the recovery from taxpayers of the State Revenue Service’s cut-off benefits”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U84	The Commission examined the request made by Members Linda Liepiņa, Vjačslava Dombrovskis, Didža Šmita, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Viktora Valaiņa, Jūlija Stepanenko, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Lubova Švekova, Karina Srūdes, Armanda Krauze and Alda Gobzem, Minister of Finance Janis Reiras “On Recovery from Taxpayers by the State Revenue Service” (No. 33/P13) and, by voting in favour, 9 against and one abstention, admitted that the request made by Members should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U85	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U86	Dear colleagues, I will remind you of the reasons why this request arose. The Director-General of the State Revenue Service publicly admitted that, therefore, this Covid-19 time was such a very tight time, there was very little time to assess these claims for idle benefits and found that errors were possible. In this way, she commented on this initiative of the State Revenue Service to reclaim the late payments unduly paid. Of course, in our view, such action causes very unpleasant consequences and increases the gap between entrepreneurs and the State Revenue Service. What we managed to find out is that really (as we had thought) the smallest stopway... The amount of the cut-off allowance claimed was around three euros. But as far as we understand, in general, this amount of cut-off benefits, which is being claimed, is about EUR 200 000 if I am not mistaken. What we have not been able to find out, although we have repeatedly asked the question of both Mr Reira and Mrs Jaunzeme, is whether, when granting a cut-off benefit to entrepreneurs, the conditions laid down in this legislative, positive act were laid down, the minimum conditions which must be met by economic operators, the entrepreneurs, so that this cut-off benefit can be maintained, obtained. This is a very important condition for this regulation... for this administrative act, because if those conditions were not mentioned, if the economic operator did not know how to act during the mess, then this recovery of the idle benefits is not justified in our view. As such, the argument that the retirement benefits are recovered was mostly not mentioned by the State Revenue Service errors, but since several entrepreneurs have already started to employ employees, therefore, according to the State Revenue Service, these retirement benefits would not be payable. In this case, therefore, since we have also not obtained the appropriate confirmation that, in these positive legislation on the payment of the cut-off benefit, economic operators have been informed in detail of all the conditions that they should fulfil, in our view, this request is acceptable and we will also call on you to support this request. Because first of all, if the State Revenue Service... The representative of the service has really learned so badly how to communicate with the public and it is so bad that it can communicate all the conditions that entrepreneurs have to fulfil, and these explanations have come together, saying at the beginning that it was some act of failure of the State Revenue Service, a mistake, then it was said at this meeting of the Request Commission that it is not about mistakes from the State Revenue Service, but more about such a certain badness from the businessman, then I think that we really have great problems and we have a very large gap between the entrepreneurs and the State Revenue Service. As I said, especially at this difficult time, we must not make this relationship worse, and that is why we believe that this demand should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U87	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained on behalf of the commission, to be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U88	No, it is just that this request made by Members was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U89	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for a Member Linda Liepiņa, Vjačeslava Dombrovska, Didža Šmita, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Viktora Valaiņa, Jūlia Stepanenko, Dana Reiznieces–Ozola, Lubova Švekova, Karina Srūre, Armands Krauze and Alda Gobzems, Minister of Finance Janis Reiers, about the recovery of lenient benefits from taxpayers by the State Revenue Service! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 52, for - 1. The request is rejected. Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure... “, sorry, “Amendments to Copyright Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Evija Papule.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U90	Yeah, thank you. Madam President, Colleagues! We are currently working at last reading with amendments to the Copyright Act. We have received two proposals based on issues of legal technique and clarification. They have been submitted by the Legal Office of the Saeima. As a result, two proposals have been put forward. And the 1st proposal is editorial. This proposal clarifies that a natural person is subject to an alert or a fine, but only a fine is imposed on the legal person. In the Commission, the proposal is supported, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U92	Thank you. Proposal 2 is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, a editorial and, as I said, a technical proposal. In essence, the date of entry into force of the law shall be determined. At second reading, we provided that the law would enter into force at the same time as the Law on Administrative Responsibility, but since this law is already in force, there is no need for regulation in this draft law. Thus, the draft law provides that amendments to the Copyright Law shall enter into force on the day following the announcement, and this also affects this law. In the Commission, the proposal is supported, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U94	Thank you. Consequently, I call for support for the draft law "Amendments to Copyright Law" in the third, final, reading and joint vote at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U95	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law” third, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Anti-Corruption Office”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U96	Good evening, colleagues! Amendments to the Anti-Corruption Bureau... in the bill... Four were received, all initiated by the Anti-Corruption Office. Becomes the commission's proposals. The proposal is to replace the words ‘Security Police’ throughout the law with the words ‘State Security Service’. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U98	Yeah. 2. - also the Commission's proposal. The employees of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau have the right to terminate employment relations at their own wish due to the fact that the service period has been reached, which grants the right to service pension in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U100	Thank you. 3. - also the Commission's proposal. The functions of the Office shall be specified and the Office shall, in the cases provided for by law, impose administrative liability on the perpetrators and impose penalties. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U101	Members support proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U102	Thank you. And 4, lastly, the proposal - also relates to decoding and provides that the staff of the Anti-Corruption Office have the right to conduct administrative infringement proceedings for administrative offences which are subject to the law of the Office. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U104	Thank you. Thus, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U105	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Combating of Corruption” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep Ones of the Land”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U106	Good evening, colleagues! Dear President of the Saeima. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep of the Land”” (No. 749/Lp13) has already been prepared for first reading at the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. This draft law develops regulation to facilitate the exploration of subsoils and the acquisition of new, up-to-date information on the structure and properties of subsoils. The draft law aims to create a more favourable environment for investment, to improve the framework of regulatory enactments and to provide opportunities to promote efficient use of land depths, as well as to promote interest of land owners in exploration of land depth resources. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and will enter into force on the day following that of its publication. The Commission examined the draft law at its meeting on 22 September this year and supported it. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U107	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps” at first reading! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U108	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 5 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U109	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is November 5 this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U110	Hello! The Legal Commission has reviewed amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts at first reading. And this bill is one of those draft laws that helps Latvia move towards better governance and less bureaucracy and involves the government's progress in this direction. This bill has been endorsed by the Legal Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U111	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U112	The time limit for proposals shall be two weeks from that date. So... Can you help me with the date?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U113	So on November 12, this year, I understand if? Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals for this draft law is 12 November this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Arms Movement Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U114	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption prepared for first reading the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Arms Movement”. The amendment is made so that employees of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau, as well as employees of other investigative institutions and entities of operational activities, can be awarded with a personal award. The draft law was approved by the Commission at its meeting on 23 September this year. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U115	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Arms Movement Law at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U116	The deadline for submitting proposals - five days, that is, 3 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U117	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prison Administration”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U118	The Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has examined and led the first reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prison Administration”, which improves the institution’s response capacity in crisis situations, as well as monitors the situation regarding the observed increase in unmanned aircraft flights. The draft law establishes the right to visit places of detention without special permission also for officials of state security institutions and KNAB officials, as well as regulates the right of officers of prison places to terminate the operation of unmanned aircraft in cases when they violate the requirements of regulatory enactments. In addition, the draft law clarifies and supplements the right to use physical force, special means of fighting, special means, technical devices and service dogs. The right to use a weapon is clarified and supplemented, as well as the concept of a weapon is changed in accordance with the new Arms Movement Law. The draft law also provides for cooperation with the officials of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior system, providing for their rights in cases where hostages are seized at the place of imprisonment, corruption, burning, mass disorder or mass resistance, to enter the place of imprisonment and to use weapons, special methods of fighting and special means. At its meeting on 23 September this year, the Commission decided to support the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U119	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Prisons”! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U120	Deadline for submission of proposals - 19 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U121	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 19 November this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U122	Good evening, colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has conceptually supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guard” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, which intends to increase the maximum service age in the Land Guard, as well as to reduce the administrative burden in line with the needs of the service. The draft law provides for new arrangements for the conclusion of contracts for the service in the Earthguard and its extension. Maximum age service in the Land Guard in place of up to 60 and 65 years old, and 60 years in place of a landguard who performs the duties of a qualified specialist of important professions established by the Minister of Defence. Landguard status after termination of contract with the Landguard, admission to professional service, regulations for Landguard veterans, uniforms and maintenance doses. In the future, the maximum reception age for the Earthguard service is expected to be 60 years, with the possibility of extending the service to 65 years. The rules currently in force provide that the maximum age for the service in the Earthguard is 55 years. It therefore provides for the possibility, over a long period of time, to keep trained and qualified persons who have expressed their wish and are ready for health to continue to serve in the Earthguard, thereby contributing to the protection of the State. It is also planned to extend the rights of the Earth Guard Veterans by providing that in future, Veterans will be able to wear uniforms not only in ceremonial events, but also in the performance of their statutory duties. The Veterans of the Land Guard will also be guaranteed the right to receive the prescribed maintenance doses for the soldier while performing the tasks of the Land Guard, thus strengthening the role of the Land Guard in the armed forces. The draft law also provides for other changes to reduce the administrative burden in the protection centre. First. The contract for the service in the Earthguard will be extended automatically if the Landguard does not submit a written notice of his unwillingness to continue the service in the Earthguard one month before the end of the contract. Secondly. A new arrangement will facilitate the procedure of conclusion of agreements for those landguards who perform their duties in the units of the regular forces of the National Armed Forces, providing for the right to conclude an agreement on the service in the Earthguard with the commanders of the units of the regular forces of the National Armed Forces... Currently Commander of the Land Guard Unit. Thirdly. Amendments to the law provide for the possibility for former... former national security guards to be admitted to the professional service without taking them into account in the reserve accounting system of the National Armed Forces as established at the present time. Such a solution will not only reduce the administrative burden, but will also improve staff resources, management efficiency in the National Armed Forces. As has already been mentioned, the Commission has supported the draft law at its meeting on 23 September this year, so on behalf of the Commission I am calling for it to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U123	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U124	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading, two weeks, is November 13 this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-29-PT13-2131-U125	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 13 November this year. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption has prepared a Covid-19 draft draft law. It is reasonable to decide on a technical break so that the Bureau can meet and preach at the next extraordinary meeting. So the technical break is till 18.20. Thank you. ( Interruption)
