ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U1	Dear colleagues, We will continue to examine the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 17 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. (864/Lp13). The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U2	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Colleagues! Congratulations also to my colleague, Aigars Bikši, with a mandate! We shall continue to refer to the draft law ‘Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection’ examined by the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax). We stayed at the 26th proposal related to the 25th proposal and the introduction of a secure electronic signature at a distance... the process of establishing a political party. In the Commission, proposal 26 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U3	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U4	I asked you to unite in time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U5	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U6	This proposal is, by its very nature, very similar to the previous one. It is proposed to sign the instruments of incorporation of the party with a secure electronic signature. By the way, we have an electronic document law that provides for a secure electronic signature as a means of signing official documents, which, by its very nature, replaces a notary approval on the signature. And it also proves in practice, namely to submit documents in the Register of Enterprises, there are three versions - one version is to sign the relevant document at the notary, the other is by electronic signature and the third one - to go on site in the Register of Enterprises to do so. Consequently, it is technically possible to do so as well. But it is absurd, of course, that today, a parliament with a secure electronic signature will reject the proposal that a secure electronic signature can sign the instruments of incorporation of a party. It will have the force of the law adopted with a secure electronic signature. After that, the parliament with a secure electronic signature will confirm the position of a judge in the Constitutional Court, who will most likely have to consider a complaint, a constitutional complaint, on this issue. Now you yourself understand this absurd situation. But the most important question in this whole story is that in fact the state power has clearly and clearly demonstrated that a secure electronic signature is... Contrary to what the State Audit Office says, it is not about promoting its use in society, but it is used by a relatively small part of society. It costs the whole country very much. And that should change accordingly. Similarly, I have already mentioned the epidemiological issues that, in fact, 200 people will now have to go to a notary. It is not possible to do this from abroad. So several hundred thousand Latvian citizens cannot participate in the political process at all. Those who are in Latvia will also have to risk their health, with the health of a notary and go to a notary. It is absolutely clear that this 'no' vote is a vote to make it more difficult for my party to be formed. This party will be established on 8 January - melt or rupture! But I would just like to ask you, my fellow Members, to understand that with this vote, you are actually coming to my mill of popularity and not helping the public. You would be helped by reading the Law on Electronic Documents and Section 1(2) of this Law. Then you would understand what a secure electronic signature is. And all the arguments relating to the fact that there is a capacity test... I'm sorry how a notary can check performance in the same DigiNotary when he is shown a passport on the screen - exactly how is it checked? These arguments, of course, do not stand either legal or emotional or any other criticism, so I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U7	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U8	Colleagues! I too... Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the Saeima. I also call for support for this proposal. In addition to the arguments that had already been expressed yesterday and today, I remembered the debate in the Saeima Legal Commission a few years ago when the debate on the procedure for putting forward a popular vote or a referendum took place. A discussion was held on whether to allow citizens only to use a secure electronic signature or to rely on various different personal identification methods, including bank codes and bank identifiers. At the time, LVRTC was those who argued very strongly only about the use of a secure electronic signature, actually trying to prove that it was the strongest, most reliable way to prove the signature and identity of a person in contrast to bank identifiers. I do not think that something has changed at this time and that a secure electronic paract has weakened its strength, if you can say so. On the contrary, I assume that, for many years now, additional solutions, additional security features, have been found to make a secure electronic signature even more reliable in personal identification. I therefore also call for this proposal to be supported in order to respect consistency. And, colleagues, we need to understand at all that the time of crisis is dangerous for the foundations of democracy. We need to be very careful not to unduly restrict individual freedom where this is not necessary. There are currently an enormous number of other restrictions, including the freedom of assembly, which are severely restricted. If we still do not, in my opinion, allow unthinkable decisions to prevent the establishment of new political parties, which are also part of the foundations and elements of a democratic state, this will not benefit society. I call for this proposal to be supported and for us to be as comfortable as possible to work at a distance, including through the establishment of political forces.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U9	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U10	Dear colleagues, That is why it is already a secure electronic signature, with the sign "safe", that we all understand, when we use it, that it has absolutely equivalent effect to the signature that has been certified. If we now see, when we look at this draft law, that most Members of the Saeima object to such clarification, which offers a choice - either a safe signature or a notarised statement - then I really have to wonder what understanding colleagues have about these processes. For example, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, which deals with very serious issues relating to extradition, extradition of a Member of the Saeima for prosecution. I do not really believe that when we voted, made such decisions or, as we saw today, decided to push Aigars Bikše into the parliamentary office, we really knew that each member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application had expressed his free will. We can also talk about the fact that yesterday we found out that the Members of the Saeima, when making these decisions, could, as if they could apply, actually be present. In this case, Members of the Saeima, when working on the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application, can (if I am not mistaken, correct if I am wrong)... they are not required to disclose the cameras, they can also speak with disabled cameras, make decisions and vote without identifying themselves in any way. As we remember, the sittings of the Saeima commissions are held without even an electronic signature identifier, simply applying for the ZOOM, sending Members to e-mail or whatsApp chat, which is also not safe in theory, these ZOOM links. What is happening in committee meetings, these decisions, which are also taken outside the Saeima's agenda... because there are several decisions that are secured, even without the decision of the Saeima to proceed, there are different situations in the work of commissions... These decisions are also taken in general without the Members of the Saeima being identified. Now that you ban such an activity, you have really shot yourself in the foot. I don't understand why such jealousy is necessary. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U11	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U12	Hello, colleagues! I would also call on those who will now vote against this proposal to apply for a debate and to justify it. This is very important for you to do this. If you do not do this now, there is no other argument that it is simply an approach to Latvia as a legal and democratic state, because there are no arguments why a secure e-signature will not count as a secure electronic signature in this case, because... And that... This, in turn, will mean that such a decision must be rightly challenged in the Constitutional Court. No arguments have been put forward. You will have confirmed that you simply forgot your oaths made to the Latvian people to take care of Latvia as a democratic state and forgot your promises about the rule of law. The fact that someone is now trying to say, you know, it won't be really safe or it won't have the capacity... Well, apologies, if a person is already capable, if a person has an electronic signature at all and is able to do so, then he has an average capacity higher than a certain good Saeima Member, who is not only a representative of a political party, but also elected to the Saeima. As we know, many had problems starting to use this electronic signature. Now to doubt that someone else who has to take a much simpler action is not capable... Sorry, you're building Orwell's farm again, where one... someone else is more like others. I call on me to continue to speak specifically so as to have the opportunity to apply for at least one of those who want to implement this political fiction in an illegal, undemocratic way. Apply and justify if not. You now show by your silence that you are aware that you are acting in an undemocratic, illegal and unjustified manner. I invite you to apply for a debate. ( Pause) I call once again on you to apply for a debate. And I call on the whole Latvian society to follow what is happening at the moment. It is regrettable that this power in its frail, arrogant way is trying to carry out political calculations. Please mark it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U13	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U14	(Sound rupture) ... on the proposal, and also this, 26, proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U15	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 33, for - 45, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U16	27. - a proposal of a editorial nature of the legal office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U18	28. - the proposal made by Member Gobzem in connection with proposal 25 on the use of electronic signatures. And the Commission does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U19	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U20	I ask you to unite the times immediately.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U21	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U22	So this is the last, third proposal. Just like the previous two. So for the time of crisis, I stress, not forever, but only for the time of emergency, while there are restrictions in the country while you are also talking about epidemiological security, I offer to use either notary services or to sign documents with an electronic signature. The proposal is essentially similar to the previous two, which you rejected, and it is a political approach to me as a member of the opposition, to my constituents, including all those who live abroad, because they will not be able to participate objectively in the formation of a party. I will also say legal consistency to these circumstances. Given that you have approved today with a secure electronic signature to the Saeima, you also wish judges with a secure electronic signature... And this is much more serious legal activity than the gathering of individuals and the establishment of an organisation. It does not yet make any national decisions; it is simply the right of individuals to establish an organisation. Then these circumstances will be addressed both by the Constitutional Court and, accordingly, by the State of Latvia, possibly by certain state officials, because this is a clear political settlement without any legal arguments. Why a secure electronic signature for the establishment of the Gobzem party? Because it is absolutely clear that this issue is precisely my case, because I have expressed my desire to establish a political party at this time. Why does a secure electronic signature not work in this situation? And I repeat: the only argument from the Ministry of Justice is about capacity verification. I'm sorry, the fitness check, showing your passport on the screen, is impossible. The fitness test is, by its very nature, a medical instrument and cannot be tested in this way. And when you finish... 96 Members will take part in the vote today. I'm none of the other 96, that's 95... I don't see whether they vote physically by themselves with a secure electronic signature. This cannot be verified. It is not possible to check whether all these Members are in a clear sense at this moment, for example, if they are not under the influence of alcohol or if they are under the influence of drugs or drugs, or if someone else is voting instead. And we will adopt laws with a secure electronic signature all day long, as in all previous days. And this argument will be relatively very important in the proceedings. I ask you, however, to reflect on this because the proposal is only about the time of the crisis and not about the whole time political parties are founded. Only as long as remote mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U23	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U24	Colleagues! Definition of secure electronic signature. Two of the factors characterising it are electronic data or a unique personal identification card accompanying a document prepared on a computer: name, surname, personal code and other data. And the other is an individual signature of a person in an electronic environment, which has legal force. This is the function of a secure electronic signature. Why has the State in general created such a state, why does the State invest at all? In the draft budget for next year, we also provided for additional funds to allow for the introduction of this secure electronic signature on ID cards. If we vote 'no' in such a situation, not allowing us to use a secure electronic signature remotely in order to establish a political force, then I do not understand at all why we need such a product. Then let us use other identification devices that make the country not have to spend the euro - a bank... bank identifiers are one example. We have set up a system for legally binding certification of a person's identity in an electronic environment, which is especially relevant at the moment, when there are very strict restrictions on the community, when the state itself, by order of the MK, obliges people to work remotely, but with the other hand, it will not be possible to do the things you need to exercise your personal rights remotely. Think of where the logic lies. I think that Mr Gobzem is also right. If we now vote against this proposal, I would also recommend that he goes straight to court and win his rights. That is not right. I call for support at least for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U25	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U26	Yes, colleagues, thank you. The e-Saema website also provides evidence that this secure electronic signature can also be used to close transactions. This means that this unique personal identifier is equivalent to the signature endorsement. And I would like to remind you, honourable colleagues, that after... According to the current legislation, according to the services provided by Latvia.lv, there is a possibility that these people, the residents of Latvia, can vote, without identifying themselves, as you say, so without proving their capacity, without a notarised signature, can vote, they can collect signatures for proposing a referendum on the dismissal of the Saeima. And you do. Latvija.lv allows this. So is it not a threat to the state on the part of officials of the Ministry of Justice? If you allow you to use an e-signature for such things, but the parties... create the parties that will have to participate... to participate in the elections... they must be subject to very strict control, and candidates for the post must be subject to certain checks. They have to write a lot of evidence. And in any case, in this way, people can also not be allowed to participate in elections. Yesterday we heard from a representative of the Ministry of Justice that, here, there have been various cases, that some anti-state forces have tried to create something incomprehensible. Those people who make up the parties and those people who apply to participate in the elections... Do you think that no one is tested at all? That's not the case. Moreover, what we heard yesterday about party financing is also, to my mind, a ridiculous argument, because the party financing does not start immediately after the party is established. That should already be known, but I understand that today we will not hear any arguments either. Thank you. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U27	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U28	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! On this proposal, I would ask both political parties and members of the Saeima to make it easier for one of our colleagues to establish a party. I think there is no need to be afraid of competition. And if we... The sittings of the Saeima are a very good example. The sittings of the Saeima, however, take place in a very interesting format - in this vebinary. I am not very much in favour of such an approach personally, but if it is decided, we must take part in it. But the establishment of a political party... If, in this case, one Member, a politician, is very clearly expressing such a wish in public space and very clearly indicates that there are obstacles... I think to comment on other politicians who have already established a political party under normal conditions and tell them that it is not so difficult to do so... here already the second day tells the arguments that... There will be problems and that maybe... others on the edge who do not intend to do so may not understand... I would therefore call for consideration to be given to the arguments put forward by Mr Gobzema - to take account of the exceptional situation, these exceptional circumstances. I think if someone wants to check whether or not a person has participated - this is really just a technical issue today. If people are signed up, there is a way to come together, then it is only welcome, and there is nothing to fear from political competition either. If people... better to set up a political party, then see there are still people together and can prepare for the Saeima elections and fight fairly for the opportunity to represent the Saeima. So that I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U29	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U30	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to reiterate my main arguments in general. So the government has proposed a solution - in this emergency situation, the possibility of establishing a political party remotely. What the government is proposing now is a departure from the high demands that must be met in the process of establishing a political party. The Commission also referred to the Ministry of Justice, as well as yesterday's representative of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, then the party... the political party is not comparable to other organisations and associations, because these high standards and high demands are important here, because the party is being formed to exercise public power. And compare this... I'm really talking about establishing... These 200 people... when a solution has now been found to be able to set up remotely... This cannot be compared to day-to-day services and also to the use of e-signature in a different way, as this comparison is not justified. As I said yesterday, the role of this notary has been introduced for security reasons. Others... I will not repeat the other arguments. The 28th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 52, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U32	There is also 28 Member Gobzem's proposal to change...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U33	29.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U34	29 is also a proposal from Member Gobzem; it provides for changes in the regulation of the formation of a political party during an emergency. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U35	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U36	Please combine the times. I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U37	Your times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U38	Yes, so the nature of this proposal is as follows. If there are restrictions in the country, the number of people allowed to come together at all, then the nature of the proposal is that a political party can also be formed by meeting together, the number of people meeting these restrictions. So if the country has established that less than 200 may gather, for example 100 people, then a political party can be formed by 100 people. If the state has determined that 25 people can come together, then 25 people can be formed. If the state determines that only two can meet together, then the two can also establish a political party. And I'll explain why. Because the establishment of a political party does not in itself create an automatic opportunity for this party to start in elections. Two more prerequisites must be met. One is - at least one year in advance must be established... One year before the elections. And the second condition is that we need at least 500 members. So the number... How many political parties are establishing - it has no meaning at all because - 201 members can be established and cannot participate in elections... Consequently, there is no legal decisive importance. And if we look at the big democrats in comparison, then we see that none of the big democrats - not Germany, England or France (we will call any country) - have any restrictions (in proportion to the population of the country) that we have. Not for 500 members, not for 200 members at the foundation... and 500 at the start-up elections... They are also artificially created anti-democratic barriers because, in principle, what difference does it make, how many people are establishing parties? The party itself is interested in having as many members as possible, and thus also a larger elite. But this question is specific to the time of the emergency. Now you are limiting the number of people who may come together and meet together and you are doing so as if for epidemiological safety reasons, but at the same time you are now these hundreds of people... Even if Gobzem's party is founded for example 500 or 600 people (this is just an example!) you will now go to the notary for all of these 500 and 600 people - regardless of the fact that a remote sitting will take place. This is contrary to any requirements of epidemiological safety, completely absurd. I suggest that if you say that 25 people may come together, then 25 people also come together and establish a political party. It's pretty logical. Your restrictions apply to any social group, including a group of politically active people, a social group that wants to participate and can participate in the political process. As a colleague said, it is not necessary to fear that a party has been established, because this party is also interested in having as many members as possible afterwards. What I heard as the only argument from one colleague: "Well, if you have an electronic signature, then you will simply have to pay less for the process." It is a political envy that has been voiced in the debate. So you're limiting... because then will pay not five or 10 thousand for the formation, but probably a very small amount will pay. All of this - it is only jealousy, not logical legal arguments. I therefore call for support and care to be taken for the safety of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U39	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U40	Yes, it is very good that we have heard in this debate the argument from this proposal that denied why such a proposal should not be supported. That is, that the electronic signature is not safe enough. Electronic signature... A secure electronic signature that is both in nature and legally safe... suddenly, it turns out that it is not safe to decide on the establishment of political parties. That is absurd in itself. But the reason that comes next... it is very important that it is now recorded. And when... Because, you see, in this case it is power. For the fact that political parties are established with a view to gaining power. That means... if such decisions... what you now claim is that the electronic signature is not secure... This means, colleagues, that you will be consistent and, when preparations for the municipal elections take place, when party congresses take place, they will not be allowed to take place electronically, even with a secure electronic signature, to nominate candidates for these elections. If we're consistent... I would like to receive confirmation that this is indeed the case. Otherwise, all you have said is once again simply a violation of political manipulation, a clear violation of the rule of law and democracy. And it's very good that it's being fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U41	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U42	Colleagues! To reiterate my support for this proposal, too, I would just like to maintain the subject of the misunderstandings that are, in principle, being lit up by prohibiting you from signing safe electronic signatures at party formation. Yes, we have heard from the rapporteur's argument that, here, there are quite other standards in the case of party formation. So how can we talk about standards, about security, if we continue to have very serious discussions about e-elections? Dear colleagues, You understand that at the moment you have created a situation where, in order to participate in such potential e-elections, candidates will not be allowed to prepare their participation with an e-signature, but voters who will either elect these candidates or others will have such an opportunity? Isn't that the question that you've failed at the moment? I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U43	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U44	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to point out that this proposal is not about using an e-signature, but about the size of the meeting. And I would like to point out that in the commission... Neither did the Commission mention that the e-signature was unconvincing. This is certain, only in the process of establishing a political party must double security. This specific proposal, 29, is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U45	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 26, against - 52, refraining from - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U46	The 30th proposal also provides for a change in the regulation governing the formation of a political party during an emergency. It's about meeting size... Yeah, so the quantity... This proposal is from Member Gobzem. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U47	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U48	I ask you to unite the times.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U49	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U50	First of all, I'll say, of course... I am simply in shock at what Member Stein said about double security. I'm sorry, the legislator is a legal institution. There's no such double security. Everyone is equal before the law. That's first. And if we're talking about equality, here's the only legal discussion that has been about it... it was about whether the electronic signature was equal to the notary's signature certificate (and legally the same) and not about double security. The law of political parties does not at all record the fact that there is some kind of double security, because there can be no such thing objectively. Not double security, but double standards, right? And if we're talking about this double security... I'm sorry... established political parties - just one had a congress recently... or two were. There was a notary who tested the capacity of those who voted? Double security?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The party wanted the board... several boards elected... The National Association wanted to... Raivi Dzintar was elected without an electronic signature and without a notary. And for the political party “KPV LV” changed name, thrown out Zakaitistov... and in that spirit - no notaries. And you're talking about double security?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All these arguments... legally simple to sit in the Constitutional Court. Just like that! But the essence of this proposal is that... Now, by the way, those restrictions are that gather closer than two meters... A certain number of people are allowed... So if you can make sure that there are two meters between people... For example, in the arena “Riga” can provide - 500 people can settle in such a way that there are more than two metres between them and all the epidemiological safety requirements are met. Or by the sea - there can be 500 or even a thousand people more than two meters apart and thus establish political parties on the spot... All of them. It is a matter of presence if it is possible to observe these two-metre distances. There are places where it is technically possible to do so. And that is why I am calling for such a proposal to support and avoid double standards because it is not possible... Also legally, if we're talking... it is impossible for the party to be established... that the party has no legal say. You need a notarial statement that... The only purpose is that it will simply cost more, and that's it? For those who set up - for them it will simply cost them more - for every signature, I don't know 25 or how much euro is there. But when you are established and you elect the President of the National Association Raivi Dzintar, there is no notary. Then there is no double security. These scales clearly show that the only objective is to combat the political opposition. In the procedure of the Constitutional Court... and also to the public... It can be seen to the public that, in principle, all of this is, at present, a struggle only against Gobzem. And I must say a great deal of thanks to the position that you are pouring on the mill of my popularity, that you are lighting out how much you are afraid Gobzem will set up a party. Thank you very much for that. You and only my politician's rating is now being raised with all these votes 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U51	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U52	Colleagues! Yes, with such decisions... In fact, you should make other suggestions after such a decision. I am talking to my colleagues from the position to which my parties have been set up - as they are, in each party, going. I understand that we are looking at the story of KPV LV... Then, most likely, these colleagues will also want to create something new. Some of them will want to form a new party. So in this case... If you do not want to allow a party to be formed, a party to be established with e-signatures, then you will definitely need to amend either the electoral system as soon as possible, or amend the... reduce the time limits for setting up, as currently stipulated in the law... And if you ban this opportunity to make it easier for parties to be formed, you... Yes, just as my colleague Gobzem said - you really have created, in my opinion, a rather solid basis for challenging such a decision, because it is a direct threat to democracy and really creates such a... a great many questions concerning decision-makers. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U53	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U54	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to point out that political parties are already not on an equal footing with other organisations in the process of establishing them. There are higher requirements in this respect. And the Cabinet and the Commission have supported this process as a remote... in time... the lot may be established. And opportunities are given. This specific proposal on the regulation of distance requirements was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U55	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - Member Gobzem's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 52, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U56	31. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice of a Member of the Prime Minister, Bordan, which provides for an extension of the term in the legal protection proceedings if certain criteria are met. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U58	32. - the proposal by Members Zakatistova, Nemiro, Eglišs, Znotiņš and Pavilut. Regulation will be introduced to ensure an increase in private investment. Partly supported by the Commission, included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U59	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U60	Proposal No 33... The Commission decided to clarify the previous proposal 32 and created 33 proposals. It is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U62	34. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko, Papules and Dombrovskis. Provision shall be made for the amount of the premium for teachers from pre-school, primary, vocational and higher education institutions, colleges of higher education who implement the distance learning process in the country. In the Commission, proposal 34 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U63	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U64	Good morning, colleagues! Yes, although this proposal was actually rejected by the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) (to some extent, without arguments, only by the government representative and the representative of the Ministry of Finance that the Ministry of Industry and the Minister of Industry did not request this type of support, so the government cannot support it), I do not have any hope for the Saeima's colleagues to understand that remote working for teachers, especially in the pre-school sector, is on the part of the government. It is not a choice for municipalities; it is not a choice for teachers. This is a government-defined strategy. And that's why the government should also support educators - even because other sectors support... We see, for example, that people of the State Probation Service will receive a cash prize for their works... about working in epidemiological conditions, but teachers - no! Only because the Minister of Industry has not asked, asked and cared for this. I think you all have children, children of friends, grandchildren, grandchildren of friends, children of colleagues who go in kindergarten and in school, and you are well aware that the government has indeed left the pre-school as an institution that will work now, by imposing stricter restrictions. So the government takes responsibility for these people's work in communion conditions as well. If that is the government's decision, then too, the government must provide support with a premium for working in epidemiological conditions - just as it is currently in other sectors, including public administration. Go on. It is clear that distance learning also requires extra load due to the introduction of a new training standard in grades 1-4, but electronic or digital materials are not currently prepared for all classes. So not only grades 1-4 until December, but also classes 2, 3, 5 and 6 do not have digital materials. This means that teachers are in addition to preparing teaching materials, talking... and also provide further advice. We see in the press that there is already a statement that in January Šuplinska invites teachers to work in two shifts. It also shows that this is an additional burden and that a far-reaching bonus is simply necessary, as their work is determined by the government. Once again, neither teachers nor schools nor municipalities are given a free choice. At this point in time, the government determines how teachers can work, including at pre-school, where pay is determined by the local government... to be correct, provide municipalities, not determine them. I therefore call for support for the proposal. In this way, you will also support your colleagues, friends whose children are learning today, even though there are holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U65	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U66	Yes, colleagues! In the Commission, too, my colleagues and I did not really hear any arguments against this proposal. We were on our side, and... In my opinion, quite a lot was told about how teachers are working (at a distance!) and how this work is organised, and how much effort teachers are currently doing when working at a distance to provide these lessons. It is very common for teachers to adapt to the possible lack of opportunities for children to take part in this hour and to carry out these tasks electronically transmitted. Questions often arise for both parents and students. And the teacher actually has to answer, "24/7" on standby, and the teacher does it because it's his profession, it's his heartwork. He can't turn off and ignore these statements, these letters, he definitely gets involved, he answers, he's trying to work as hard as possible. In this situation, we can't even talk about some specific working time: here we have to work from 8.00 to 14.00, or from 8.00 to 17.00. As I said, “24/7”! Both Saturdays and Sundays! The teacher is everywhere -- he's sending such a task, then he's sending such a plan... And then the questions follow, and then the students send the teacher answers in different formats - and the teacher has to deal with all this because not everyone has the same software. It's not like we do - every member of the Saeima has the same computer, and we can work quietly with these computers. It's quite different. I really... I am very, very sorry that we have no parental lobby in the government. We only have people who don't even think about how families live with children, how children study in schools. It's very, very, very sorry that it's not being considered at all. I therefore call on you, honourable colleagues, to support the teachers at this difficult time. As I said, they are heroes; they must be supported, as they are working beyond their own strength. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U67	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U68	Yes, colleagues! By uniting both Mrs Papule and Mrs Stepanenko's arguments, I also call for support for this proposal. In the table below, you will see that we have also prepared similar proposals. And one additional argument, colleagues, is that on 24 November this year, the government passed order No. 680 “On the distribution of funding for providing support for distance learning for teachers of general education and vocational education institutions”. This means that the government has already tried to think at least some of the educators (as we can see, this order does not apply to pre-school teachers). Well, personally, I don't think enough. The funding provided for the extra far-reaching allowances is relatively small... which is planned. But what's worse is that some teachers are going to provide this bonus, while pre-school teachers, primary schools, professional orientations, higher education and colleges... No such support is foreseen for teachers working in colleges. They are in the same situation as teachers working in general education, they all have extra jobs, they... Many people have to work with both children in school and those children who study at a distance. The work has actually doubled. It'd only be normal if all through the perimeter... for all teachers who work... especially for preschool teachers, who are working at all to enable workers in other professions to go to work; even so that medical staff with young children can go to work and perform their functions during this difficult time.... they must have such support. We're going on... in our proposal, we are in addition... We have also added to it the procedure for calculating these premiums, how they would be distributed among educators and how the reports would be drawn up... Similar to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, this is provided for for general education teachers. You can clarify, you can also improve something, but I am calling very much for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U69	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U70	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. I know that the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science is taking part in the work of the Saeima today, so I would ask him to answer the question of how much of the funds spent in an emergency have been allocated to support teachers. Just what has just been said - just over one million - cannot be considered sufficient in a sector with a large number of responsible people, even though this premium has been achieved relatively at the moment, ranging from EUR 5 to EUR 75 for the teacher. But, including the spring work in the community situation, this is unacceptable, because there was one situation in spring, there is now a completely different situation and there will be another one in January. I call for support. And please also answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U71	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U72	I ask you to combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U73	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U74	Dear colleagues, The question is not only whether or not educators deserve benefits related to work in community conditions for objective reasons. You deserve it. The question, I think, is, to a large extent, whether the principle “One law – one justice for all” is working in our country. The question is whether the government is indeed acting on this principle. If the government already states that public sector workers have premiums for this selfless work in a community pandemic, then... It is clear that the principles according to which their premiums are granted should be the same. And let its bonuses... whether, if not the same, to at least develop according to the same principles and do not differ much between teachers, policemen, firemen and those working in the probation system. But, colleagues, what we saw at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission sitting - that during the same sitting... The government offered the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to support the appropriations, according to which the State Probation Service employees were granted allowances, which on average was 1200... in the amount of over 1200 euros per person. Well, the question is not whether these people deserve it or whether its premiums are or have not been adequate, but that, at the same meeting, in which the majority of coalition Members support allowances for one probationary official of EUR 1200 - at the same meeting, the coalition Members reject the proposal to grant allowances to teachers and educators. And in the same sitting... we hear from the trade union of education and science workers in Latvia that everything the government granted in bonuses is 1.1 million euros for 24 thousand educators; it reaches an average of 46 euros per educator. So the government on the same day... decide to grant allowances for work in communal conditions to one group - EUR 1200, more than EUR 1200 per person on average - but, in fact, on the same day, reject the proposal to grant a higher premium than the average of EUR 46 per person. So, according to the logic of the government, the principle “One Law – One Truth for All”... The government has a difference between the employees of the State Probation Service and the educators - 27 times... Well, the question is... Mr. Znotiņš will now take the floor. Maybe Mr. Znotiņš will explain why the teacher is 27 times in the eyes of the government... a teacher's job is 27 times less valuable than that of a member of the probation service in community conditions? How does it go together with the principle “One Law – One Justice for All”? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U75	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U76	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the funding and support that we have now given to educators. It is currently EUR 1 million 102 978, which has been allocated to teachers of both Grades 7-12, to teachers of basic vocational education, vocational education and vocational secondary education, as well as to teachers of grades 1-6, who are implementing the distance learning process. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Science has provided general education institutions with a computer purchase of €3.9 million by the end of the year, which part of the schools have already received. And this is due to 425 schools. The Ministry of Education and Science also follows the situation and how educational institutions provide the distance learning process, and will offer solutions for providing additional support to teachers if necessary. In this respect, account should also be taken of the decisions already taken and to be taken in the coming days at the Cabinet regarding the regulation of the education process during the emergency. And there is another important aspect which, of course, must be mentioned - that the founders of an educational institution - mainly municipalities - have the right to decide, after assessing the particular situation in an educational establishment, on the allowances for teachers by means of the budget of an educational institution for this purpose. And so, including the state budget allocated in the form of a targeted grant. And in this context, we will certainly still talk about another proposal from the opposition on how to allow or how much to allow this surplus funding to be diverted to municipalities for this purpose. It has to be said that there is a possibility, that right already exists, and we see that, every year, schools are largely left over funding from national grants, ranging from one to six per cent of the total funding allocated. And it's not clear... What is really not clear is why this funding is not also used by municipalities to pay targeted grants, what can be done, and why this funding is not used, for example, for the salaries of teachers' assistants, which can also be done with this funding. But now part of this funding just stays over. In view of all the above, we will continue to look for support mechanisms for teachers. Of course, they deserve... Of course, they have done a lot in these circumstances and have also adapted to the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U77	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U78	In the Commission 34 the proposal was not supported. And, as the representative of the industry has already said, the parliamentary secretary has also given information to the Commission on all existing support measures and programmes to help these teaching staff in the field of education. And both bonuses were mentioned... Yeah, not everyone... Maybe not everyone... computer technology options, research programs... And the Commission also indicated that the Ministry is looking for other support options. In the Commission, proposal 34 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U79	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko, Papules and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 46, for - 9. The proposal is not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue after the break. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U80	Dear Members and honourable Members, We shall continue to discuss the agenda of the second remote emergency session on 17 December. We started to examine the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”. The draft law was declared urgent and considered at second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U81	Welcome, Chairman of the sitting. Colleagues! We're going on with this bill. 35. - the proposal from Member Svekov. Equal to the 34th proposal, which we have already rejected. The proposal is not put to the vote, but a debate is possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U82	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U83	Thank you, the President of the House, and also the Commissioner. On the one hand, I should like to thank the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, who at least tried to answer the question. But the question is, how big is the total funding from the community... not from found reserves or any other sources, but directly from community funding support to educators... at this point in time, I am thinking not of technology or any other support, but of support in terms of pay, so the allowances for work in the community, in an epidemiological situation... How much such funding has been provided or... If the Ministry of Education and Science thinks it has asked for something, then how? What has been the funding requested, and what have the requested measures been? At the same time, the answer was clear, and indeed it also confirmed the fact that representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the government, the Prime Minister's advisor, that the Ministry of Education and Science did not really request support, at least this kind of support for teachers. And these figures, one - a little over one million, and the other - three million, show... actually shows, Mr. Znotiņš, your and probably Šuplinska's attitude. One million for people, three million for purchases. This is definitely not acceptable, because people are those who are working at the moment, not the techniques and technologies that are necessary, must be recognised; thanks for the same, and one computer at the moment for the Valka district, the municipality, - it certainly shows your, so to say, accuracy of the principle of division, but not about the story. This type of assistance is also necessary, and one should think that it is valued every moment by the local authorities or by those who have received technological support. Let's not deny it. And yet... One million for people, three million for purchases... Is this really the attitude that workers in the sector are expecting at the moment, the attitude that teachers, including especially in pre-school, expect? Those who will continue to work, regardless of how long you decide to extend your holidays, and regardless of how you decide to introduce or not to introduce a new evaluation system. The other thing you mentioned is regulation. Well, the regulation of writing is certainly not what is reflected in supporting teachers if it is not the regulation of the award of bonuses to teachers working in community conditions. We, including independent Members and members of the opposition, expect support for educators, regulations or proposals in the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, which provide remuneration in the form of bonuses for educators, but not regulations, instructions or nightmares in the press - for two changes, five changes... or eight ways to work. Let the schools decide on this. Let the professionals decide. Give them a salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U84	Thank you. I would remind you that the debate on this proposal was possible, but it cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U85	Proposal No 36. 36. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko, Papules and Dombrovskis. It provides for a state budget target grant for the remuneration of teachers, which in 2020 is not used in the amount... provide for the use of teachers’ allowances for additional duties to ensure the provision of training during this period of emergency. This proposal, 36, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U86	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U87	Dear President, Yes, this proposal - and I hope that it is really easier to implement, because it can be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, both existing and extra-issued - is to make it really possible to use the targeted grant, which remains the balance at the end of the year, for the allowances for educators... not only in terms of salary, but also in terms of allowances for educators. I understand that this can be easier to deal with, and I would be happy if such a proposal were made, or if the statement in the debate was confirmed, that the local authorities can use the allowance for teachers without, of course, jeopardising the cost in January. At this point it would be some partial solution within the existing financial resources, but it is not an excuse... it is not enough to support educators who are currently working both on-the-spot... worked until the holidays... and some will continue to work... as we know, in the preschool even before... Although this group of educators is not covered at this point by this proposal... However, to make enough payments... to pay teachers extra for work under community conditions. I call on you to support the proposal or to indicate how the government will do it in its future activities, including... possibly in the context of existing laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U88	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U89	Colleagues! I would like to thank the opposition for this proposal. This really is a meaningful and understandable proposal... to which it is aimed at at at least... In the Ministry of Education and Science, we have also studied and really studied this situation and also statistics on this issue. As a result, the current regulation on the financing of educational programmes provides that the balance shown in the reports of municipalities and local authorities of the republics to be submitted by 20 January exceeds one per cent of the local government's allocation in the previous budget year. The Ministry reduces the amount exceeding the target grant... for the period of time... and from the current year's budget... September 1st... until 31 December... In principle, this funding can already be used in part for these premiums, as I have also mentioned before. Maybe it's necessary... by analysing precisely the legal situation in a more precise manner... conceptually we even support this... It is possible that a number of amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations are necessary, and then we will also consider them more precisely, and we are also thinking of doing it right away and working on them. Since conceptually this proposal is to be supported - not quite in this form of law, but in general. So thank you very much for a substantive proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U90	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U91	Thank you, Mr President. In any case... if we talk about how quickly the government can work, how much the Saeima can support the government's swift action... There's this law... approach... and amendments to this Law. It may be that the position at this point, when it assesses that it has been tabled, I will not know what proposals are there, but that one who has been recognised as valid may also be reflected in the vote at this point, because the law will be passed immediately, which means that the municipalities will be able to operate and calculate now. Save people! To a certain extent, people have been burned while working at a distance. Save them also for hours! And with the strength of the law... The law will enter into force immediately because it is urgent, and then municipal accountants would know that they can already count the relevant bonuses for teachers. However, I call for this meaningful approach to the proposal, which is now considered to be correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U92	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U93	Yes, colleagues, this proposal does not have any additional financial consequences. As you can see, this is a reallocation of funds into existing volumes, so... At the moment we can handle things that are not yet arranged, and there are a lot of such things when we decide on these amendments to the laws of both the community. We can do this very quickly, we can do it today, not wait for the Cabinet to meet and do something. And that's really... It shall have the authority to act by the Cabinet of Ministers. Colleagues, if you really believe that this proposal is good and remarkable, then it would also be welcome. We call on you to express your position by voting accordingly - voting in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U94	I closed the debate. Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U95	36. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U96	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - the proposal tabled by Members Stepanenko, Papules and Dombrovskis! Please vote mode! About - 28, against - 43, abstaining - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U97	Proposal No 37 is identical to proposal No 36. It's from Member Svekova. In view of the rejection of the 36th proposal, this is not a voteable proposal, but a possible debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U98	Members have not applied for a debate. We are going on with proposal 38.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U99	38. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko, Papules and Dombrovskis. This provides for allowances of 30 per cent of the salary of educators working on-site. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U100	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, This proposal can be seen as, to some extent, a debate in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science and, in fact, at least in the statements of the chairman of the committee... let him now apply and deny if something is wrong to quote... The head said that, under the conditions of the community, this kind of support - to pay up to 30 per cent of the allowance to teachers working on the ground (in particular, meaning teachers in grades 1-6 while they were working on the spot, as well as teachers in pre-school institutions) - is very reasonable and seems to be useful and should be considered by the government. If, again... If such an idea is not required of the Minister of Education and Science, then... We are now calling on Members to understand... confirm that you understand that people working on the spot are currently risking their lives and health to some extent. Knowing the educator... the demographic situation, please support them and forgive those people who work on the ground - just as they do in other sectors - in the same way. Every moment one says that professions should not be compared, especially with doctors, but it is likely that educators are really a second profession, apart from shop workers and those of others who work in such a human audience... with people, and many people... Pedagogues are those who work with many people, without knowing if there is a danger at that time, whether there is an infection already brought or spread, or otherwise... These people are working because the government is imposing it. So... In any case, such a government decision must also follow government support. At the moment, we are once again talking about pay in an account as a support. I call for support for this proposal and, as a result, for our understanding of everything - not only in terms of slogans, not only in terms of emotional calls, but also in terms of actions! - teachers who work under community conditions without, to a certain extent, looking at their health at that time. And in that case, you would probably not feel sad when you read social networks, lists in professional groups, and you wouldn't see how many educators are currently writing that December is their last working day. Not the last working day before the holidays, but the last day of the teacher's work, because the teachers have decided to leave the educational institution. And this happens both at pre-school and school level. It must be assumed that this is not only because it likes or does not like it, but also because of this additional stress. I call for this proposal to be supported so that people are valued to some extent and do not lose their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U102	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U103	Dear colleagues, If I am not mistaken, we are seeing a strange change on Thursday's third... Let's say, in these shifts. What we have observed with colleagues is that since the government orders to carry masks, including for members of the Bureau, on a job with more than two people... The head of the meeting must listen to the government order and pull this mask, because there is more than one person in the room. What we see is that, in fact, the chair of the sitting cannot work for more than one and a half hours. And the chairmen change places - Mrs Mūrniece, Mrs Lībiņa-Egneres, Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas. We see this in every sitting of the Saeima since it came into force... Since the entry into force of these amendments to the Ordinance. In this way, you, the honourable leaders of the Saeima - Mrs Mūrniece, Mrs Lībiņa-Egneres and Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas - are proving that you cannot work longer than one and a half hours in a mask. This is burdensome and you need to change colleagues. At the same time, you believe that teachers are made of a completely different material, that they are absolutely resistant to anything, that they are resistant to both viruses and to these working conditions through increased stress and greater difficulty in light. And you don't intend to predict some kind of bonus for their selfless job. It's really hypocritical, because if we remember... then we cannot compare neither the salaries of the educators with those of Members, nor the salaries of the educators with those of members of the Presidium. Where you going! I could also tell you from my experience... As a mother of four students, I know how teachers work at school, who work on the spot, and how much time they spend on children - the smallest grade students. And also kindergarten and kindergarten staff... They're today... they are currently working under very, very difficult conditions. And they often also have to replace their colleagues and work very long hours, and nobody! - don't take care that they... they should help to protect themselves against viruses, because teachers have to buy masks at their own expense, at least for the time being. Colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U104	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U105	Yes, thank you, Mr President. In addition to why this premium would be necessary, I would say that in fact the Ministry of Education and Science has not responded in any way to the implementation of the new requirements - requirements for the introduction of new standards and new guidelines. It's been doing it for the second year, and, as I mentioned, 1-4, 7 and 12. ... Class 10... OK, it's remote... Teachers implement the new requirements. The Ministry of Education and Science has not issued any regulations or new provisions concerning the new content. And I think there should be a debate on the preparation of five-year-old and six-year-old children, because they are about to go to Class 1, and these children are also required to receive training, and they should be guaranteed. It is clear that the introduction of this new content in the community, in remote or on-site stress conditions requires an additional premium. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U106	The name is Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U107	Colleagues, due to lack of time, I can’t tell you how teachers are currently working in schools. As we remember, the small classes are now divided to provide these three square meters per child. And, as you know very well, older teachers are now forced to work at school. In particular, my school has 17 educators from the older classes who have to work with young children. Then they still have to think about how to take the long-distance hours directly to their children... Colleagues, this situation needs to be resolved, and teachers need to be supported. I would very much like to hear Mr Znotiņš' comment on the way in which support for educators, who now have to work on-site, is planned. We know that it is planned to buy masks for teachers. We do not know what these masks will be and what working conditions will be, but we know very well that Members are now provided free of charge with masks for work in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U108	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U109	Dear Members, Answer to the question of masks. On December 15th, this month, the Cabinet of Ministers clarified the system of obtaining individual protective equipment so that pupils and educators would have access to multiple facial masks when returning to school in January 2021. They are bought centrally and are helped by the Ministry of Defence. Up to eight masks per student will be delivered, and at the beginning of January at least some of these masks should be available to municipalities and schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U110	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U111	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - the proposal tabled by Members Stepanenko, Papules and Dombrovskis! Please vote mode! For - 27, for - 44, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U113	39. - the proposal made by Member Svejova, which is identical to that of the previous. There is no vote, but the debate is possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U114	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U115	Thank you. Dear President and colleagues. Welcome to the answer... If there are already answers... At least it's happening right now... Partly... Different rated... and yet the answers are... the question of whether additional aid will still be granted to educators... will there be any other conditions... Who will answer the question: how is the new standard of competence now being implemented and also the guidelines in pre-school institutions? Otherwise, if you don't give any answers and... in addition... You don't see the discussion about the evaluation system, which means that... Does this mean that the introduction of the new content is a fiction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U116	I closed the debate. This proposal is therefore not to be put to the vote, but the debate was possible. Go to proposal 40.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U117	40. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko, Papules and Dombrovskis. It requires the Cabinet of Ministers... reimbursement of staff expenses and the amount of compensation to be paid to teachers implementing the distance learning process in the country, up to a maximum of EUR 30 per month. Many times in the Commission... There were also discussions, and several times it was said that municipalities were not prevented from deciding on such compensation for their local government and educators. The municipalities are free to do so already because it is not the case that the funding has been reduced to the extent that it is not possible to do so. The Commission did not support this proposal, 40th.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U118	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U119	Yeah, thank you. Head of the sitting and colleagues! Clearly, the work is far away... If someone has used that opportunity and enjoyed it... create additional costs that may not be expected for each household. It is clear that employers, especially in the private sector but also in the public administration, are covered by a certain amount which would allow people not to invest personal resources in remote employment but would provide this additional support. If you look at how much teachers, teachers spend on it, it's about... from 15 euros to... as already mentioned, up to 30 euros per month. Not that extra... from one million... keeps 7,70 euros for a period of nine months, but 30 euros or up to 30 euros each month! In any case... Members who are currently working at home, and if they have someone else at home who is using teleworking, so to say, conditions, it is clear that there is an increasing need for both internet use and electricity costs. And if you, colleagues, looked at your electricity meters, you would hardly like these figures. It is clear that teachers turn on their computer - and thus electricity - for working needs at least 8 a.m. And very often, as we can see, the teacher's work is completed at best at eight o'clock, because the classes... Class groups and classes work in different modes, consultations are individual, and all this requires additional time, hence additional load, but also additional resources. I say once again: public administration workers or those working in other sectors have the opportunity to receive these 30 euros in support... to work remotely, but for educators as a regulated profession... it is not so clear at this point in time. Like... What kind of support is given to doctors, the same support should be given to educators. Medicals cannot work remotely (I am not talking about family doctors), but educators... At present, one large part also works remotely - not because they would choose it themselves, but because they are obliged to do so. Our teachers' salaries, as we know, are one of the lowest, if not the lowest, in the European Union, and that would therefore not be fair - of the EUR 50 that has been allocated according to the schedule for raising teachers' salaries, to cover the costs that are incurred when working at a distance. We also had a little debate on this issue in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, and it seems, however, that this support should come from funding from the community, as there is now an emergency, from working in an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U120	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U121	Colleagues! I also call for support for this proposal... even more... in addition to making it very clear that the funding needed to compensate... this €30 compensation for remote work... financed from the state budget... Yes, indeed, - the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission indicated that municipalities were not already prevented from compensating for such expenditure themselves, but the local authorities were allowed to compensate for such expenditure... This is practically impossible for a very large number of municipalities. And I think this irony is unnecessary: I say, local authorities do not already have so much reduced resources. Municipalities have very much cut back on the budget for next year. So strong that... You have seen, colleagues, that yesterday, it was even necessary to get on with Members' quotas to give away five million euros to municipalities, so that at least part of them can put a stop to the next year. That's why it's irony that the municipalities can also pay this out of their pocket, I think it's completely out of place. Colleagues! I would like to take this opportunity to raise one issue, which also entrepreneurs, after yesterday's government decisions... has been updated in the context of the new restrictions. They draw attention to the fact that the amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax” provide for the possibility to exempt 30 euros from tax for employees working from home... in practice it should - and I think it is quite logical - be anticipated from 21 December this year, from the date on which the government has actually imposed a mandatory obligation on all... Well, with few exceptions... all work from home... It would also be logical to allow the employer to cover these costs in respect of the employees. I call on my fellow Members in the coalition - please consider this possibility. I understand that we have the last sittings of the Saeima session, but it would be useful to find a solution and also include such a provision in the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection with regard to employers that, from 21 December onwards, there is an opportunity not only to cover these costs, but also to exempt from tax... from personal income tax... And, of course, I also call for this particular proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U122	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U123	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasise once again that from 2021... The draft budget law package adopted amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax”, which provides that in 2021, in the tax year, the employee’s expenses related to the performance of remote work are exempt, which are covered by the employer in accordance with the Labour Law, if their total amount per month for full-time work does not exceed 30 euros. Therefore, teachers will, of course, also have the opportunity to apply for such support. And the employer has an obligation to cover such costs. That's what nobody's... That is no doubt, and in that respect, I can totally eliminate the concerns here. Second. Of course, it should be recalled once again that local authorities are largely left over the funds that can also be used for such a case. Thus, national targeted grants, which remain beyond almost every municipality, can also cover these costs; this is not prohibited. So, I think, there is no reason to fear that teachers - compared to other professions - will not be able to submit these eligible expenditures and get back money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U124	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U125	Colleagues! I am pleased to hear that the representative of the ministry no longer has any doubt that such costs are incurred by the teachers, because when we started this discussion, even before a good time - then there were really different arguments: well, the teacher can already come to school and drive an hour from there. No, the reality is, in fact, different. In the commission, too, we pointed out that if, for example, the teacher at home had so far not needed such a powerful Internet connection, then he may even have to switch the contract and make a variety of other technical things, technical improvements so that he can run this Zoom or Microsoft Team for an hour, because it needs an appropriate connection to be able to actually see every child in the camera and tell every child about this substance, and... to avoid interruptions. For here in the Saeima, too, we often face various problems while working, where there is also a teacher with all his students! Mr. Znotiņš mentioned the possibility that municipalities could... that no one would deny the municipalities to do this... No, Mr. Znotins, it has to be written into the law! If it is not written in the law, it will end up so that no one... that they did not understand each other, and the municipalities will not feel that they would have this right to reimburse these expenses to educators. That's why I... with colleagues... we believe that such a norm must be in law; it must be clearly stated in law so that teachers can be able to do so by local authorities or... Perhaps the State could also pass on these expenses to the educators. I would remind you that Members of the Saeima are still entitled to submit... receive compensation for travel expenses, compensation for living expenses; there are also representation expenses for certain colleagues. It is wrong, I think, to deny teachers the opportunity to be sure that they will be reimbursed for this expenditure. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U126	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U127	Thank you to the President. Mr. Znotins! The employer for educators, yes, is the municipality (formally it is!) , but I would remind you that the educator - this is one of the regulated professions and, with regard to the requirements of these professions, the amount of remuneration and many other matters are determined by the state. The reservation that a targeted grant can already be used for such, say, objectives - on the one hand, it is not true. As long as the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers do not provide for this, or as long as it is not stipulated by the law which... be quicker and clear to all and can act now... On the other hand, this reservation is not too honest either. You know the municipalities... is the municipality where this one percent is not left... If you don't talk about pay in January... It is therefore clear that even if municipalities do not have the same level of compensation for these costs, even if there is a grant above the target, they do not... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or It's not fair.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U128	I closed the debate. Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U129	In the Commission proposal 40 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U130	Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - the proposal tabled by Members Stepanenko, Papules and Dombrovskis! Please vote mode! On - 28, against - 46, abstaining - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U131	41. - the proposal from Member Svekov. It is equal to proposal 40. There is no support and no vote in the Commission. However, the debate is possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U132	Members have not applied for a debate. We can go on with proposal 42.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U133	42. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. It is envisaged to complement the draft law with a new point 64: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall develop by 10 January 2020 a single COVID-19 hotline for the psychological and advisory support of those affected by the crisis.” There was a wide-ranging debate on this issue within the Commission. It was concluded that the existing Covid-19 single phone currently helps citizens and interested people who seek advice and help and direct calls to appropriate phones that can provide help. The Covid website19, which is also set up by the single country. gov.lv is a separate section with all phone numbers. In the Commission we also learned that several public institutions and non-governmental organisations offer this type of assistance and services, telephone numbers on different topics - assistance to children and adults in different situations. This proposal was supported by the Ministry of Health, pointing out that such a focused phone might be needed. The Ministry of Welfare and other representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers mentioned this information, which I have already mentioned - about existing phones and services. And I must also mention that the time limit for drawing up proposals is now in place. But the authors will certainly explain more. At present, this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U134	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U135	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues, good morning! Indeed, we have a print error. It was planned to determine - 2021 January 10,... create single support phone line... Why was our proposal made? By analogy with Lithuania and Estonia. Both other Baltic countries have already done so - they have introduced a uniform, clear and understandable way of communication for people affected by emotional and psychological problems due to Covid-19. The government has been playing roulette since October - preaching, not preaching, preaching, not preaching emergency. Incoherent action and chaotic statements led to mistrust in society. Late action points to the government's relaxation in times of lower morbidity, as well as highlighted the different positions of ministers on the issue of restrictions, timely implementation of support instruments and responsibility. But Covid-19 continued to spread and affected an increasing number of people. And its impact on society is harsh: increasing tension, growing uncertainty about the future, about the state, about what will happen next. People are confused, they do not know what will happen to them, whether they will receive or will not receive remuneration, whether they will have or will not have income, or whether they will have or will have a job. Experts point out that depression and suicide are on the rise in society. There are trends in schools that point to problems in attracting psychologists. Improving the mental health of the public is one of the most important priorities in the planning documents of the Ministry of Health. In the public environment, experts are increasingly concerned about the possible impact of Covid-19 not only on the physical health of the public and on access to treatment, but also on the mental and emotional health of the public. Covid-19's impact and harshness. Suicides are increasing, people are worried. I believe that our proposal would provide clear, understandable, high-quality and accessible psychologically emotional and informational assistance, provide clarity and help much less to prevent their stress and the feeling of excitement that arises in society due to unpredictable behaviour, inexplicable situations, ignorance. I therefore very much ask my colleagues to support the proposal by clarifying that this should be done on 10 January 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U136	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U137	Yes, honourable colleagues! I, too, have to apologize for this implemented print error. Please be intelligible. We, the independent Members, have no consultants who can, on the principle of four eyes, still put their eyes on the document and... But, of course, this is not an excuse. We are asking the editors of the Saeima if we manage to vote in favour of this proposal with colleagues today, really make the necessary corrections, because there is no dispute at present about what it is about. It is understandable that a print error has been introduced, because indeed, as Mr Stein pointed out, this date had already entered, and so... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would also like to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Health who explained to the Commission the need for this single phone because... how we figured out this short, short... The kovida... the phone may be, yes, when we try to reroute callers to Laundry or another phone, but we have no confidence... and also those government representatives who opposed this single phone were unable to explain whether they would have tried to find out in an empirical way how... Well, when you feel in the skin of someone who needs help right away... instead of waiting for re-addressing or, for example, looking from a long phone directory... find according to the situation in which... how he feels right now, the phone number that's in this summary right now... Therefore, the Ministry of Health also supported the idea that this phone should be so unified, immediately accessible... be immediately accessible to a line with appropriate specialists, who would be specially prepared for this situation and answer people who feel insecure at the moment, who feel excited, and try to really prevent such cases, which we believe are increasing. The cases are different - there are some conjectures as well as psychological burns... and all other things that experts could definitely talk to people and give them adequate help at this difficult time. Colleagues! I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U138	The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U139	Hello, colleagues! I too, although this proposal was not supported by the Commission at its meeting, am again calling for this proposal, as the experts of the Ministry of Health have also acknowledged that it is impossible to achieve full assistance, namely psychological assistance, in a simple way at present, because it is fragmented and the availability of information is, it could be said, difficult for a person who has not taken this service on a daily basis, but who might need it very much in a crisis situation. Therefore, I think we could support this proposal together and clarify the date in editorial terms. Once again, support, namely psychological support, is very important at this time of crisis and is also one of the health priorities this year - mental health. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U140	Name to Member Ivar Pug.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U141	Hello, colleagues! Colleagues, if we understand the reason why we are unable to help financially all those who really need it, then we must do our utmost to provide moral support. That's what we can do. That is why I am also asking for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U142	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U143	Dear colleagues, A great deal has already been said about why this support is needed in substance; I will not repeat what my colleagues have said here. Also with regard to, unfortunately, the error made with the date... If the members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission had such a wish, of course, the Commission could have partially supported this proposal and put forward its proposal, which is the Commission responsible. But I call - especially the coalition Members - to support this proposal, however, so that we do not come to even greater ears, because at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) we saw that confusion - perhaps because of this covid crisis - is not only for the people, the citizens, but also for the government. In particular, at this meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) we have heard two completely diametric opinions from two ministries. The Ministry of Welfare has stated to us that this proposal is to be rejected, is not to be supported, because such lines, such phones already exist - and, moreover, several - and nothing is needed here. On the other hand, the position of the Ministry of Health was that such a telephone line was necessary. And the more... If we... Either, or if you, fellow Members, look at the strategy of the government on 8 December, which has been discussed and adopted to combat the consequences of the Communion pandemic, you will see in it the wording of updating free psychological assistance in society for parents and citizens as a whole, in order to reduce stress, anxiety, to receive support if a loved one is placed in a hospital or in the event of death of a loved one. Like... I stress, fellow Members, the internet of trust that is available all the time (24/7), as well as in the form of a chat and smart app... So, colleagues, at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we saw the situation in which the government adopted... examined and adopted the strategy, and this... which says that such a phone is necessary. I checked that officials of the Ministry of Welfare, three whole, participated in writing this strategy. And then the representatives of the Ministry of Welfare in the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... It seems that they are not aware that such a strategy has been adopted at all, that such measures have been envisaged there. I therefore call on the coalition Members, however, to introduce clarity here on this issue, if there is obviously no such clarity in the government itself. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U144	We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U145	Yeah, thank you. Dear President and colleagues. I also call for this proposal to be supported, thinking about how much parents need at present not only because they need psychological help in schooling, but also because they need to work and provide all the training conditions themselves, including the learning environment at home. I also call for this measure to be supported for the benefit of educators. The teachers may not complain; now they no longer complain or complain, and this can also become dangerous to the quality of teaching, because sad teachers do not, of course, promote the joy of teaching for students in any situation. But these teachers too could anonymously express their psychological mood without threatening their family... and also without giving this sad mood to students and parents. In any case, such an action would help society... not to complain, rather than to indicate who committed the infringement... So don't encourage aggression... At this point... People, with professional support, may be able to understand both during Christmas and in future work, working remotely, that the problem can be solved that the problem is temporary. All the more because... Even volunteers appear on social sites... Proposals from psychologists - part of consultations, support, and free of charge... or... directly complementary... that they are ready to work to provide such psychological support to people. All community-related programmes in other countries provide for such support and such assistance, all countries being very, very... Heads of State are concerned and show people - with their example - that they support, understand, not just give rather silly speeches, silly statements. Although at this point the government would show that it really cares about health issues, including psychological health issues! People are increasingly being put into restrictions at the moment, and that is why this aid is even more necessary. I also stress that it is necessary for parents, students and those children who are studying to do so. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U146	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U147	Thank you. Hello, colleagues! I think that unnecessary reasoning is not needed here; this proposal is indeed extremely valuable. And that does not change the substance of the whole document. One moment I would like to highlight. Nor does the print error that has been introduced in the proposal play any role, because, to be honest, no one will ever cast any doubt on the government that it has failed to fulfil this task by 10 January last year or 10 January this year, because we have a number of parliamentary tasks that the government has failed to fulfil for the time required. There are many tasks that the Saeima has given to the government and that have not been fulfilled at all, and no government has ever been held accountable. So... Because of this formal excuse, do not support this proposal - that is, forgive me, silly. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U148	I closed the debate. Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U149	Thank you for the debate. So... I would like to mention that, in view of the proposal's author, it is a technical mistake... and, in order for the verbatim report of the sitting of the Saeima to be clearly written, I call on the Saeima to vote in favour of the proposal as follows: the Cabinet of Ministers shall develop a single Covid-19 line of support for the psychological and advisory support of those affected by the crisis by 10 January 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U150	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 42. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko, in the version just mentioned by the committee rapporteur! Please vote mode! For - 86, for - 2 and for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U151	43. - the proposal from Member Svekov. Identical to proposal 42 and would not be put to the vote either, as proposal 42 has already been supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U152	The proposal is not put to the vote, but a debate is possible. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U153	Yeah. First of all, I thank my colleagues for their previous support and for actually ensuring a clear, understandable... creation of a consultant, psychologically informative phone for the residents of Latvia. I would just like to make it clear in addition that this proposal was drawn up in the context of the model already introduced in Estonia, and in view of the fact that Lithuania is now... plans to import it, too... an analogue. Why? Because publicly available information shows that in Estonia, the government provided free psychologist advice in three languages - Estonian, Russian and English - in the video call mode, providing a unified and understandable system for obtaining psychological assistance to reduce the impact of Covid-19 on stress and stress. Psychologists’ practices also point out that the proportion of customers rotation has decreased. It is also interesting that this year there has been a significant increase in demand for psychological study programmes in universities. I am a psychologist and therefore particularly support the importance of a human psychological situation for the overall health of society. In the context of the Covid-19 crisis, it is particularly important to talk about this because of financial problems, instability, concerns about the future and the sense of deadlock, together with isolation and increasing daily burden for both parents... Both adults and children - all of this will, in the long term, lead to the demoralisation of a large part of society. It is in the interest of the State to anticipate and prepare for this aspect and to provide quality support. And a remark. The universities already provide free psychological, informational and emotional consultations with the Voluntier organisations. Thank you very much again, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U154	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U155	Colleagues! It's very short. I would like to thank Mrs Švekova very much for updating this idea. She was the one who, after examining Estonia's experience, encouraged the inclusion of this proposal. As we know, we have had several attempts to propose such a proposal to the Saeima. I would like to thank all the Members who voted in favour. And thank you very much to the rapporteur for having formulated this proposal so that we can resolve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U156	I closed the debate. As has already been mentioned, it is not possible to vote on this proposal. Consequently, proposal 44 is under consideration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U157	44. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. This provides: ‘Defining that, until the Saeima decides otherwise, the organisation of gambling and lottery events is prohibited, with the exception of figures for lotteryes and momentoteries, and physical gambling sites (a casino licence, a gaming hall licence, a bingo hall licence), both in an interactive environment and/or through electronic communications services.’ In the Commission, proposal 44 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U158	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U159	Dear colleagues, Although we have heard a great deal about the ban on these interactive and on-site games, it is really a very hot and debated subject, and the Constitutional Court has also expressed its opinion, dealt with this application very quickly. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we should incorporate this ban on gambling into this law. We can discuss whether this ban should be applied to interactive games as well, but... However... As we see on the basis of this law, the Cabinet of Ministers, already on 14 October, prevented teachers from working in certain areas of interest education, in no way, by the way, without compensating them for these losses. At the same time - up to the announcement of the emergency situation - the country continued to operate on land-based gambling sites - this gaming hall. I think this is a shouting injustice. If we leave this ban on gambling only on the government's shoulders, from the government's point of view, then we can really come to a situation where, in a dull and vile decision, these bans are made in different documents... we will come to a situation where various sports events, educational events will really be denied, but people will be able to continue spending their money in the gaming halls. On interactive games. Yeah, I understand... I have also been addressed by a number of operators and there has been an attempt to convince me that these services must continue to work, but my opinion remains firm, because despite the fact that yes, there are various attempts to limit these players and take various educational measures, still... We have now come to a situation where there is a three-week pilot. The so-called silent period will contribute, honourable colleagues, to the development of these games, to the loss of people in these interactive games, and we will come back to the fact that people will not have to pay for basic services and people will be in difficult situations. That's why I... Despite everything, despite all the debates that have been held before, I call on you to support this proposal. If not, then... Let us think about the fact that at least the ban on live games must be fixed in this law until the Saeima decides otherwise. This is very important. Colleagues! I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U160	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U161	Colleagues! I fully share Mrs Stepanenko's argument that, in a situation of falling incomes... And now it's... is the second wave of the community - with restrictions on working for healthy groups in society... and some of these people will unfortunately not be able to qualify for immediate, rapid and clear state aid. On these occasions... If a person in general has a tendency or a tendency to use gambling, this is extremely... such a period of irritation - try to make the game in hell so that you can support your family. It is interesting that, when deciding on the restrictions set in spring and reasoning why the restrictions in the games were justified in the spring, the Constitutional Court has argued in its recent decision that such a ban, without giving the opportunity to play gambling, provided additional benefits were protected from excessive financial costs. It was this argument that was used by the majority of Members at a time when the restriction of interactive games was also supported. Colleagues! There is no difference whether it is played on-site or electronically. If we want to protect our citizens from moneyshed, from spending the last family money on gambling, then it must be an essential argument. And I am very surprised that the Constitutional Court has looked differently at limiting interactive gambling. I understand, of course, that there is no physical distance issue, there is no such argument for stabilising the health care system, but this financial argument... I think that, especially at a time of crisis, this must be extremely important. I also do not understand the argument stated in the judgment of the Constitutional Court that the psycho-emotional consequences would certainly have been with inertia... and therefore there was no urgency in deciding to restrict interactive gambling. I don't understand that. The psycho-emotional situation may be stable for those who work in public administration, who also do not fall in revenue during the crisis and who do not have to think themselves about how to earn money. People working in the private sector face immediate consequences during the crisis. That's why I... I have a lot of questions about the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, I also understand that, unfortunately, Mrs Stepanenko's proposal is not to be supported in this case, because it would, once again, probably provide an opportunity for some kind of advice to the operators of gambling.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U162	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U163	Dear colleagues! I'm in this case... I will not be able to agree with those who say that this proposal is not to be supported and that it is to some extent justified by the recent judgment of the Constitutional Court. On the contrary, it is important to emphasise in particular and to make it clear in this debate that the aim of the potential support for this proposal is not only to ensure, in isolation, the restriction of the spread of physical viruses. The aim of possible support for this proposal is also to ensure that people, in isolation, are not in any way encouraged to actually divorce as the country moves to quarantine... For various psychological reasons, perhaps for illusions... to separate from their own funds, from capital that would otherwise be used - first need for the purchase of goods. In the spring, when the Comma pandemic began, there were no scientific studies on the case. As a man who tries to base his political decisions on evidence, I was very much helped by the fact that the Australian gambling supervisory authority carried out such a study in the summer. It was in June, July that a study was carried out and its results were published in October. It was a study of five researchers and it revealed worrying data. And these data were precisely about the actual increase in interactive gambling during the community pandemic. I mean, it was found 9 percent... 23 to 39. 32 percent... Thus, 9 percentage points increase the number of people playing games four or more times a week. There has also been an increase, especially in the category of men, from $687 to $1075 (almost twice) in the amount of money that people play in gambling in the age range of 18-34. And in general, too... Although for women it was less pronounced... women directly, by the way, decreased gambling during the community, but men greatly increased. Please combine the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U164	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U165	Entering Google Searcher... In the internet searcher, the words ‘Austria, gambling, Covid’, which would therefore be ‘Austria, gambling, society’, can be found in the relevant study and can also be consulted in PDF format. And, in general, society itself... The study found that the society itself... society has an increasingly negative attitude towards gambling. There are nuances there, because there are gambling advertising yet... Well, it is permissible in Australia, but society as a whole has expressed a negative attitude and calls to restrict gambling in every way. And in this case I have to say: interactive gambling is even more harmful to physical gambling during the community. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U166	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U167	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I would like to add that this one, too... The judgment of the Constitutional Court on this prohibition does not speak about the fact that the prohibition was in law... and we are also still proposing that this ban be introduced into a law that does not limit infection but fights with consequences. And so the fight against the consequences is precisely economic: the economic battle and the support measures. That is why I have also studied Australia's experience by joining Mr Feldman; that is what has been inspiring. And, in contact with colleagues and professionals who congratulated Latvia on such a bold decision, I still support this proposal - to combat this plague and to help those people who now have to sit on four walls - because this proposal is to be seen in the context of the next proposal, with which we also intend to combat illegal gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U168	I closed the debate. The name's Martin Stein, on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U169	In the Commission, proposal 44 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U170	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 44. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! For - 22, for - 40, for - 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U171	45. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. The Cabinet of Ministers is expected to make proposals to combat illegal gambling in the internet environment by 10 January 2021. In the Commission, the proposal is supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U172	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U173	Colleagues! I would like to thank the Commissioners very much for supporting this proposal. I believe that the government has sufficient resources to develop new proposals to combat illegal gambling at that time. As one of the options in the Commission, I also mentioned the following: the so-called hackaton, during which could also attract people, experts and various specialists who could empirically find all payment paths on these illegal... gambling... for these sites... because blocking these mirrors is not really working, as we all understand and have mentioned the inspection representatives. Make people watch their balls roll or turn all its equipment - it's not so important; let them watch already. So that they don't spend money on these websites - that's the most important! And that's why it's blocking these accounts, stopping this cash flow, involving the FCMC and perhaps also involving the Financial Intelligence Service, which could really take such measures with all diligence... We could join forces with government resources and major specialists... Especially in this... I would stress once again - especially in this difficult, sensitive time... as soon as possible... then... to ensure that this prohibition is effective before the specified date... all these measures with regard to illegal websites would be as effective as possible. I understand that, one hundred percent, we can't ban it, but right now, too... As mentioned by online game operators, licensed game operators, 38 percent is currently this illegal market. And the fact, I think, makes us think that the measures taken so far should be effective and new proposals should be created, in which way we can combat this plague. Colleagues, it's not a secret... You've probably done a variety of ads on the Internet... The illegal... different websites, and unfortunately children can access it too, and children can do it in the same way as adults. Let me repeat: this is a time of piloting, when people spend their money. We must now at least provide for illegal websites if you have not agreed to limit the legal... I also call for support for the Commission's proposal... the version of the committee and the opinion of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U174	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U175	Colleagues! I call for the Commission to follow suit and support this proposal at the Saeima sitting, because it really... This is also in the context of Mrs Stepanenko's proposal to restrict interactive gambling in general. As one of the arguments is usually mentioned, if you restrict the legal market, then the illegal market will flourish. And there is a large part of the truth: if there are no sufficient controls and restrictive measures in the illegal market, then there is a risk. Representatives of the Association of Interactive Games gave us data on turnover changes (also, at my request, to provide such information at the meeting of the Commission), and they show that indeed during this year too... In 2019 and 2020... by comparison... Turnover has generally increased in the interactive environment. This is another argument why we have to think seriously about the way in which interactive gambling can be limited... at least during the communion crisis, when people's income is falling. The total annual turnover has increased from 75 to around 80 million. And it is particularly bad that, unfortunately, there has been a rapid increase - 33 percent growth - namely, the illegal market, or the turnover of unlicensed interactive gambling operators - from 36 million to 45. And that's a very, very bad signal. A great deal still needs to be done by the controlling bodies and the operators of interactive gambling also need to be consulted. They - those who work in the legal market - definitely have an interest in limiting illegal competitors to the maximum possible extent. They can help with information, with examples and practical experience of how it is implemented in other countries, but I am convinced that the lotteries themselves and the monitoring inspection of gambling are skillful enough to learn from others as well as to create their own solutions. So that we support this proposal - especially now that people really have a huge tendency to try happiness and win also on interactive illegal sites! It is our duty as policy makers to prevent such sites from operating in Latvia. Please also vote in favour of the motion by Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U176	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U177	Hello, colleagues! In general, a very interesting situation has arisen with regard to illegal interactive games. Many may not know that in reality this year... organise illegal interactive gambling... That there's no penalty... There's no penalty, no administrative penalty... Let me explain why. So, as we know, decoding took place, and these penalties had to be carried over... administrative penalties had to be transferred to the concerned... relevant sectoral legislation. With regard to the Gaming and Gaming Act, on 15 July there was a meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, where... the intention was to impose an appropriate administrative penalty on the organisation of illegal gambling. But then it was that Valaiņš' proposals were voted in for the second reading regarding the fact that municipalities would have a much greater chance to close gambling in their territories. Of course, it did not like the individual political forces, and this draft law was ‘destroyed’ to the third reading. It was ready for the third reading, but it was “demolished”. 15 July. Budgetary and financial (tax) commission: this can be seen. So we have an interesting situation: we can, in essence, make illegal gambling... interactive... Latvia. I'm not calling for it, but that's the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U178	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U179	Colleagues, I just wanted to say that I did not ask for a vote, I call on you to support this editorially specified version of the Commission; I agree with it. And thank you once again to the Commissioners for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U180	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? The name's Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U181	Proposal 45 is supported by the Commission; there are editorial clarifications.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U182	Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola asked for a vote in the debate, and we have to vote. Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 80, for - 5, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U183	46. - the proposal from Member Lochmele. This provides: ‘A person who is granted unemployment benefit and the payment thereof shall end at the time when an emergency situation is declared due to Covid-19 infection may also be required to pay unemployment benefit in the ninth month for 45 per cent of the unemployment benefit granted.’ This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U184	Please call me! We will vote for 46. - Mrs Ločmele's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 29, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U185	47. - the proposal of the Members Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Bergmanis, which provides for changes in the regulation of support for compensation of employees. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U186	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U187	First of all, my fellow Members, I would like to welcome the fact that the government has learned at least partly from its mistakes and autumn support... in support of employers, employees have already overcome some of the shortcomings compared to the spring support programme. The number of beneficiaries is much wider (support is extended to patent-payers, self-employed workers), but I still think there are a lot of gaps and the aid as a whole should be much more extensive. I think you have just followed the example of a neighbouring country... For example, in Lithuania at present, if the employer retains his jobs, the state compensates up to 100 percent of the wage paid. We're in turn... It also seems that the current aid package... Even the Ministry of Economics itself... and where else to talk about the Ministry of Finance!... try to find ways again to narrow the range of beneficiaries on the grounds that we want to avoid any kind of fraud and possibly unjustified payment of the aid. But maybe not as many witch hunts as perhaps the lack of real understanding is the basis for these different forms of support... both the wage subsidy, the soft pay, as well as the provision of working capital... three months have been taken as the basis - August, September and October this year. And the company must actually prove a fall in turnover against this period. And this specific proposal talks about supporting part-time workers to compensate for their remuneration... where exactly such a model is provided for. And what we point out is that, in consultation with companies, it is clear that it is not a good reference period for many companies, because they have already had a great drop in turnover and revenue in the first wave of the community and have not been able to recover by the autumn of this year. This means that its base has already been very low. And now prove that in these three months... And in November, another 20 percent drop... is extremely difficult. I will ask you to combine the time of the debate, colleagues, so that I can tell you the fullest.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U188	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U189	Thank you. And what we are offering - we propose to extend these criteria by providing that the company either indicates these three months - August, September and October - as reference points, or... if it is one of the companies for which the first wave of the community has been critical, then - the relevant three months before the first wave of the community or the negative impact on the company's revenue. This would be fairer, it would expand the scope of the beneficiaries, and this would prevent companies with a seasonal character from being assessed Well, one example of the flower vendors who also turned to me through social networks point out that for them, for example, November has a better month than October, because in November there are public holidays and people traditionally buy flowers in larger volumes. If they prove a fall in turnover, it is extremely difficult to do so, but there are many other companies, many other sectors that have a seasonal character and which should actually be based on exactly the same period of the year in advance as the starting point. This is the second thing we are offering to extend this range of beneficiaries. Either a three-month period prior to the first cord wave or a corresponding period in the previous year. I call for this proposal to be supported. And the government - in fact, also in its own rules, to put such a regulation in place.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U190	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 47. - the proposal by Member Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Bergmanis! Please vote mode! On - 27, against - 44, refraining from - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U191	48. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Bergmanis. The planned changes in the framework for soft start aid were not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U192	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U193	If the previous proposal involved a wage subsidy, this in turn lays down a similar principle for early retirement benefits: to give up such a narrow limitation to take three months, where the company must prove a 20 per cent drop, but by providing that within a year (from the impact of the first communion wave) the company may indicate the relevant period as a reference point to show that indeed, compared with normal operating time, in the absence of the impact of the crisis, the moment has been traumatic and the turnover has fallen significantly. In this way, we will expand the range of businesses that can receive aid. The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, at the meeting of the Commission, has also told us that there are no other rational reasons why precisely these three months (August, September, October) have been taken as the basis for a political decision. Colleagues, I offer you, and we, with our colleagues, also offer you a political decision, in my view, much more balanced, much better in a crisis situation - to expand the range of entrepreneurs who can stand as candidates for state aid. I think it will also help you, as politicians, especially the coalition colleagues who run the government, to reduce social tensions, improve the government's true willingness to support the private sector, and ensure greater private consumption. We remember that much has been said about the need to warm up consumption during the crisis and, in my opinion, it is wrong to do so only at the expense of maintaining the stability of wages and revenues in the public sector. The private sector must also ensure this. Moreover, no-one's benefits are money that goes to the employee - every person's purse - who can then heat the economy again. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U194	I closed the debate. Please call me! Mr. Stein, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission? No, no? We will vote in favour of 48. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Bergmanis! Please vote mode! For - 29, for - 47, for - 8. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. We will continue the examination of draft laws after a break at 13:30. Registration of Members' presence. It's been a success. As a result, the sitting would be suspended until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U195	Dear colleagues, We are on December 18th. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. We shall continue to work on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection”. Please, Mr. Stein!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U196	Thank you, honourable leader. Colleagues, colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! So the 49th proposal is where we stayed. It is from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava and Bergmanis. There is a change in the regulation of State aid linked to working capital grants. In the Commission, the 49th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U197	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U198	Colleagues! Yes, the same principle that we are proposing - to extend the scope of the beneficiaries by looking not only at the three months of this year - August, September, October - but also, respectively, the period before the fall in turnover due to the first wave of the community or the previous year, respectively, the year before the year of view. In fact, there was another interesting discussion on this proposal, which lit up, we thought perhaps a mistake in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, in the supporting regulations that the Ministry of Economics like... was not completely accurate there, but when we realized that the Ministry of Economics had the intention of doing so, it should be said that the conclusion was rather sad. There are two criteria here for the point of reference for the granting of the aid. One is this year's three months - August, September, October - or two months of the previous year, stating that the fall in turnover must be at least 30 per cent. It seemed logical that the choice was between each other. And the word among these two criteria is “or”, but it turns out, as the representative of the Ministry of Economics also commented, that the word “or” is “and”. This means that two criteria must be met in order for an undertaking to receive aid in this programme. In this way, the number of people, or companies, who will be eligible for working capital will be smaller than we thought at least initially. That is the opposite direction. And I would understand if the Ministry of Finance came with such a proposal or it was important for the Ministry of Finance, but I can't understand at all, colleagues why the Ministry of Economics is trying to limit support already in the last days, when entrepreneurs have really tried to start on this support programme, they have understood that there is such a criterion. It is obvious that many of those in need will not receive such support because of this criterion. We propose that we go the opposite way with our proposal: not to narrow the range of support, but to extend to give maximum support to entrepreneurs so that they can continue to work, so that they have the working means and they can somehow carry over this difficult period. I'm not talking about development at all. I call for this proposal to be supported, although indeed the Ministry of Economics has asked for these rules not to be legally binding, saying that yes, generally good proposals, but that is not the rule of law. But it is obvious that the Ministry of Economics, I do not know, either does not suggest that it is unable to obtain support in the government at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers regulations to provide sufficient support to entrepreneurs. Then it is our duty to do this in the Saeima. Perhaps this will also encourage the government to do a job.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U199	(Sound rupture) ... debates with the Parliamentary Secretary of the Minister for Economic Affairs Jurgis Miezaini. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U200	Honourable Members! Madam President, I understand perhaps a little indignation and a desire to support absolutely all of us (our wishes coincide), to support as much as possible companies, entrepreneurs at this difficult time. However, one thing must also be understood: the needs are immeasurable and the resources are measurable. In this case, the accusations that aid is not given to everyone or too narrow could not be accepted at all, because all the support mechanisms have been debated, debated in all possible formats, working groups and with social and cooperation partners and tried to find the most balanced solution for giving targeted support. In addition, I would also like to emphasise the fact that, overall, there are more than 15 different support instruments for businesses, there are a whole range of support instruments available to the financial institution Altum as financial instruments. There are a whole range of support instruments available to the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia, and there are a whole range of instruments, including various passive instruments, in the State Revenue Service regarding the deferral, transfer and distribution of tax payments. So that I could not agree with Mrs Reizniece-Ozola that the Ministry of Economics does not want to support. We want to support, we support, within the framework of the resources available to us, and we support, as far as we can. And in future, if the situation does not stabilise, such support instruments are already being prepared for us by larger businesses, because many, for example, have now reached the ceiling. There are different types of other support mechanisms that are constantly adapted to this situation and needs. Aid for temporary cessation, aid for partial employment, aid for working capital, which is currently mentioned by Mrs Reizniece-Ozola - these are the mechanisms that are so widely known, but there are a number of other support instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U201	Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola continues to debate for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U202	I have no doubt, Mr Miezaiņš, that the Ministry of Economics has a desire to support entrepreneurs, but obviously energy or power to achieve the appropriate result is not enough. You say, you are trying to support existing resources, you must fight for the support of government members for more resources to support entrepreneurs. It must not be that we are proud of the fact that we are the leaders in the least aid in the spring. This cannot happen again. The Prime Minister himself emphasizes how wide we have borrowing possibilities. How will you, colleagues, be able to restore the economy after the crisis if you are now sitting on the money? You will not be able to compete with your neighbours if Lithuania grants one hundred per cent of the aid if the Netherlands covers an additional 50 per cent of the fixed costs of the companies for a completely different aid. And I could mention a lot of such examples. Our businesses will have to compete in the single market.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U203	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U204	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues, I also ask for support for the proposal tabled by Dana Reizniece-Ozola, because what I did not hear from Mr Miezaiņa's statement of reasons is indeed the belief that all possible resources have been used, that the Ministry acts proactively, not reactively, in response to the current economic situation, that other solutions will be proactively sought, that the segmentation of taxpayers' companies is proactively secured and calculated, which companies will probably not link up, what problems they have, why they are. At the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission meeting, it was indeed considered during the discussion that other potential risks or problems were not considered, why the company would be entitled to aid and assistance, but that would not pass through the requirements and... through the sieve defined by the requirements of the Ministry of Economics. In my opinion, this proposal directly extends the sieve and allows those companies that, for some reason, do not meet the criteria already established. And indeed, we will only be competitive if we maintain our business environment and if our businesses are more competitive. Both Lithuania and Estonia support their business, their entrepreneurs at a sufficiently high level than Latvia. This has also been reflected in several reports by the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Latvia's support for workers and entrepreneurship is slightly lower than in the neighbouring country and much lower than in Estonia, and Estonia now has a wide second package, which provides for very serious financial inflows by the country in support of entrepreneurship. We are not already competitive in the area of small and medium-sized business taxation, then at least we will provide those instruments that will support and possibly allow water companies to stay above water in the context of the economic crisis. I therefore ask my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U205	I give the floor to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Minister for Economics, Jurgis Miezainis, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U206	Thank you very much. I could not agree that our entrepreneurs are currently not competitive on the global market. Data from past months show that export volumes in Latvia are increasing and our entrepreneurs are able to compete in the past. To a large extent, this is thanks to these targeted support, which was also provided, so to say, in a period of peace that was the end of the summer of this year... until October... aid to exportable enterprises. Since this argument that the Latvian State does not support its entrepreneurs at a difficult time is not... The Ministry of State and Economics of Latvia - we support our entrepreneurs in all possible ways, with the most focused and best results we can achieve. If we can, we give to a much wider circle and a much larger number of beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U207	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U208	Perhaps my speech was somewhat misunderstood. I did not say that the State is not in favour; I say that state aid must be targeted, proactive and must be received by as many companies as possible affected by the economic Covid-19 crisis. And I say that this aid must also be equivalent to that in a neighbouring country, as in Estonia. Exportable companies are also included with parent companies... the inflow of foreign capital and other additional financial opportunities that ensure their competitiveness, but the small and medium-sized segment... in particular stressed in its opinion by the Board of Fiscal Discipline that it was the small and medium-sized businesses that suffered the greatest losses. They are on the brink of insolvency and bankruptcy, and they need this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U209	Thank you. Thank you. The debate is closed. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please apply in time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U210	Yeah, thank you. I was able to push the button after Mrs Švekova had spoken during the discussion of the 49th proposal. It seems that this short discussion is quite... hit the target at the right time. I fully trust what Mr. Jurģis Miezaiņš said, I know that in the Ministry of Economics, as the epidemic began, a working group was launched in spring, involving outstanding Latvian economists and businessmen, with the aim of understanding those directions and the means by which it can be encouraged to increase and strengthen Latvia's export capacity, how to do so, perhaps in such circumstances, too, to get a chance to stand out in comparison with our competitors, other Member States of the European Union. At the same time... in so far as... I am confident that Mr Miezaiņš will understand that this proposal is also in the right direction. To be honest, I did not hear him say why, however, this proposal cannot be taken as the basis... on the future direction of your ministry's development, because really ideas are very consistent and can become effective ideas to develop and maintain our economy. This is a very important proposal. I call on you to support it as a possible agenda for your working group or working group... increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U211	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U212	Dear colleagues, It is quite interesting to hear from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics that exports are growing thanks to the Ministry of Economics' export support. I assume then that the parliamentary secretary is prepared to base this on some evidence. For example, most exports are growing directly in enterprises to which the Ministry of Economics has granted aid, aid to promote exports. Although I suspect that, of course, there is no such evidence for the parliamentary secretary. And he has no idea why exports are growing for some period, exports are not growing for some period, and elsewhere may even fall. Just read the news from the Central Statistical Office that exports are growing, and here we are trying to tell all of us that exports are growing thanks to what the Ministry of Economics is doing. In relation to what the Ministry of Economics does or does not do. We have recently looked at the Ministry of Economics' industrial policy guidelines at the meetings of the Sustainable Development Commission, which, at least formally, on paper, looked very ambitious, with an increase in exports of 50 per cent over seven years - to the level of Estonia. But then we received a letter from the six main exporting sectors, and the essence of the letter was, in short, that paper had all the beautifully set goals, but there is no real funding from the Ministry of Economics to achieve these objectives, to achieve export objectives, there is no funding at all. And then, honourable Parliamentary Secretary, how much growth in exports is due to what the Ministry of Economics is doing. I recommend that you also look at the same central statistical office at which goods have had the greatest increase in exports. So two... exports of cereal products have more than doubled. Is this the responsibility of the Ministry of Economics or the Ministry of Agriculture? We can go on. Oil seeds and fruits - 2.2 times...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U213	Mr Dombrovskis, I want to point you out, however. This is not about the proposal, your debate... You're getting away from the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U214	This is even very much in favour of the proposal. And I think I have been looking much better than you specifically for this proposal or not, the honourable chair of the sitting. Wood and its products are also not the responsibility of the Ministry of Economics. I point out that the Ministry of Economics, in my opinion, does not do well enough on what is concerned with export promotion, but is trying to tell us that it is because of them that exports are growing. No, it is not because of the Ministry of Economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U215	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, what can be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U216	In the Commission, the 49th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U217	Please call me! We will vote for 49. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 47, for - 7. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U218	Proposal No 50 comes from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Dūklav. The proposal also relates to the debate on bonuses for and regulation of preprimary education institutions, primary schools, vocational training teachers and higher education institutions, colleges, higher education implementing teaching staff. In the Commission, the 50th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U219	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U220	Yes, colleagues! A rather broad discussion was already on previous similar proposals. Once again, I would like to stress that the EUR 1.1 million provided to teachers in general education institutions for additional work to ensure the distance learning process during the community's limitations is too little. It does not cover other groups of educators, such as preprimary, primary, vocational and higher education institutions and college teachers. In our proposal, we provide for a clear task for the state to secure such funding from the state budget, we also offer the procedure for calculating these premiums, how the accounts are prepared... should be similar to general education teachers and be proportionate to the current remuneration. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U221	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U222	Hello, colleagues! Thank you for this proposal. I call on you to support this in a number of recitals. First of all because really this 1, comma... A little more than a million that was granted... In teachers' wallets for nine-month work remotely, they have created a certain number of negative teachers, because often this bonus is just €10 and for a longer period of time, although we call for it every month. But this proposal presents two things. First, the strengthening of the autonomy of municipalities and schools by allowing themselves to decide and set up their own reference system on how these premiums are granted, how large they are and why they are granted. Secondly. This proposal also makes it possible to talk about an increase in the workload of teachers - not because they have not been notified, well, there's... including 40 hours a week, but allowing you to talk about teachers' work as overtime work. And that would allow the premium to use a different calculation procedure, and the school would determine it, and the school would. This means that teachers, like doctors, are working overtime, and the state is also telling, even if they say that they have to work in two shifts. And thirdly. It is clear that if schools themselves will form these reference systems (and, as is well known, the Ministry of Education and Science now requires a simplified reference system, and this is probably positive)... If the schools themselves were to develop these reporting systems, they would be transparent, the teachers themselves were aware of them, and it would therefore be clear why these amounts are different for one or the other teacher, especially for overtime work. I call for support. As a result, public and private institutions would also be able to receive this type of bonus, not only in schools founded by the municipality, but also in these educational institutions. In addition, however, the idea of school autonomy based on a competence approach would be strengthened to some extent, at this point in terms of financial allocation. Overtime - this is the teacher's own suggestion, and also the fact that the school can set these criteria. It would be clear why the reports are being drawn up, which also takes extra time at the moment (and is demonstrated by what the teachers say), but it would be clear why such work should also be devoted to reporting. Therefore, what we are talking about would be transparent, understandable and self-made criteria, and at the same time, if the State Audit Office or any other control wanted to look at the use of financial resources, it would have a clear reporting system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U223	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U224	Yes, a member of the honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, This proposal also mentions the remuneration and related issues of university and college lecturers. And since we are discussing more about teachers working in general education, I would like to say more this time about funding for universities and scientific staff. First of all, I must remind you that the Ministry does not directly impose remuneration in universities. Universities are derived public persons with significant financial autonomy. The State only sets minimum rates of remuneration in universities. I must also say that the Ministry is essential... significantly provided additional funding for various actions in the field of higher education and science, in particular during the communion crisis. One can be called 5.1 million EUR for university and college scholarships, it made student scholarships about so far... such high has never been in the history of Latvia... Thus, scholarships have been raised from 99.60 euros to 200 euros, and additional 750 study scholarships have been created. There are also eight million funds for the digitisation of universities, even though universities can supply their teachers, buy... and train them to make better use of digital skills... both purchase computers or other devices that are necessary. Also in science, there are, of course, a variety of additional funding, such as a community... the public research programme Covid-19 for mitigation - five million euros in addition, so our scientists also had the opportunity to engage, and they did so. Also for implementation of the competition for fundamental and applied research projects - 11,2 million euros. And I can mention others as well. It is essential, however, to list and remember all the aid and funding granted to industry during this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U225	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time. ( Pause) Mrs Papules, we do not see or hear you. Is that all right? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Unfortunately, there is no communication. I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U226	In the Commission, the 50th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U227	Please call me! Let's vote for 50. - The motion by Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Dūklav! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 46, abstaining - 2. The proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U228	51 is a proposal from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Dūklav. The proposal relates to the debate on the use of targeted grants for teachers' pay for supplementary work. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U229	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U230	Yes, my fellow Members, it is indeed an ideal repetition of the proposal. We also call for the savings that have not been used to ensure this year's reward, not to shift back to the state budget, but to use to provide bonuses for teachers for carrying out additional duties to ensure the training process in the community. This is particularly important because this is the year in which teachers not only have to deal with the crisis, but also have to implement the new educational content. This means double load. Both content needs to be worked differently, and, as a matter of principle, it is still necessary to try to understand in a formal way, how all that perhaps well-prepared by educators has been done in good time, thinking about the best way of presenting the content... Most likely rarely who planned that all of this content should be represented, try to teach children in remote mode. Especially in smaller classes, it is extremely important, in my opinion, that they work even more carefully on how to... how to ensure their education for children. It seems to me at all that it is really long-term to provide training remotely - that is similar to trying to build a house on the Zoom platform. The teacher lays those foundations... especially at the age of younger. Therefore, in one way or another - or by way of an additional premium as a special target grant or otherwise - it should be possible not only for general education workers, but also for teachers working in pre-school and other schools to provide a higher, more motivational remuneration. Well, this is such a small but concrete proposal. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U231	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U232	So, in addition to what my colleague said, it is clear: if the introduction of a new standard of competence, including in a remote form, is not a fiction, then the Ministry, which assessed that this type of proposal is meaningful (i.e. perhaps a little more free... than maybe Mr. Znotiņš would like)... then, however, this proposal shows that... adoption of the law would facilitate faster approval of the decision, faster possibilities for municipalities and others, including universities and state educational institutions, to calculate these bonuses already now, because the surplus will be clear and is actually clear now in December, therefore the Ministry confirms that the introduction of the new content of competences in the second year's pre-school and first year's 1-4, 7 and 10th grades is not a fiction. At the moment, there is the impression that it could also be fictitious. Since the proposal also concerns higher education, I would like to say that, now, higher education is already in use... universities already use their resources, but the promotion of scholarships mentioned by the parliamentary secretary is a little bit like a game with numbers and a game with a fact without saying anything to the end. So at the moment state increased scholarships cannot be received by all students, but only those who study on the state budget funds can be received. Consequently, those students who are currently not able to work as usual in the sectors where they are doing it, as they are currently closed or partially stopped... students who are paid for a fee - they do not actually have such an increase in grants. And the other. Well, the remark that university salaries are not directly determined was almost correct. Yes, the minimum is set. And yet the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers now also apply to the remuneration of higher education, of course, at the minimum... the minimum wage at the rate - and still applies... and there are quite a lot of conditions also for higher education. And the other. Well, a professional parliamentary secretary would have obtained if I added that at this point - there is no ministry and it does not offer a new mechanism in the context of higher education pay. At least it should be, so to speak, meaningful to hear whether the Ministry has developed and what new applications will be to say that, yes, in higher education too, there is autonomy in terms of pay, and whether any figures will appear. But once again, I call for full numbers to be given, how much of the community's money is devoted to supporting teachers in the form of pay, not in the form of procurement, but in the form of teachers in higher education... So, at all levels and at all levels, ISM has demanded and benefited from the support from the community money. Thank you. I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U233	I closed the debate. Is there anything in the name of the commission for a beaver?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U234	In the Commission this proposal, 51, is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U235	Please call me! We will vote for 51. - The motion by Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Dūklav! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 46, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U236	Proposal 52 is from Members Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Dūklav. This proposal also relates to the already debated issue of the allowance for teachers working on the spot. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U237	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U238	Yes, colleagues, this proposal is ideally similar to the one previously discussed on the 30 per cent premium for teachers, but it is different from the fact that it is clearly said that this funding must be provided from the state budget in order to remove all concerns or doubts about the fact that local authorities are obliged to provide these funds. Its ideas were expressed both in the committee sitting and here in the Saeima sitting, stressing that local governments are not denied to pay their teachers a fee. But, knowing how currently the budgetary situation in municipalities is tense, we clearly state that the teachers are motivated and must do so from the state budget, without reducing the amount of butter is already planning to round into the municipal budget. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U239	The name of Member Evita Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U240	Well, in terms of clarity: I'm Evija Papule - to show the right record on the vernacular, but thank you. In any case... the proposers have once again referred to the arguments, and I can only add that, at this point, if the country has determined that pre-schools work on-the-spot, too, the increased restrictions on pre-schools are marked as a place where they will work, now of course, by wearing masks. Secondly. The remote work is determined by the government. It's not a municipality's choice that would have been made for some other reason or... including worsening of the cord position after treatment. This is a government-defined procedure which teachers are currently carrying out, regardless of the fact that direct employers are municipalities and therefore teachers are considered to be municipal employees. It is a government-defined point, a government-defined order that people carry out when working at a distance or on-site, especially at pre-school level. It is therefore understandable, as is the case with the Ministry of Economics: if the Ministry of Economics gives some support to, for example, exports to operate, then the government must give clear support to teachers in this case. Once again, if education is also directly linked to economic opportunities, then there are people who need to work on the spot or, while continuing to work remotely, there is an economic activity, then the government understands that educational institutions are those that provide people with opportunities to work to some extent. The government decision must also be an aid measure. If the Ministry of Education and Science does not propose, tell or say it, then it must be done by the government as a whole, and especially by the head of the government, who has said today that the government is working better. Support for such a proposal would show that the government is indeed doing better. I invite you to support and show our attitude about the importance of education at this moment also with economic opportunities or with opportunities to work in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U241	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U242	In the Commission, proposal 52 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U243	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 52. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Dūklav! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 46, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U244	Proposal 53 consists of Members Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Dūklav. The proposal provides that expenditure incurred by public and municipal educational institutions should be borne by the state budget, i.e. for the reimbursement of these expenses. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U245	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U246	The substance of the proposal is precisely reflected in the rapporteur's comment. I would just like to stress that funding is necessary for the most extensive form of support, not only for far-reaching allowances, not only for technical provision in schools, but also for the provision of computers for remote operation and to provide it to a sufficient extent. Today, I think there was one good example. The mayor of Valka in social networks said huge thanks to the Ministry of Education and Science for giving one computer to ensure remote education in the whole Valka district. A fantastic example where we see how effective, targeted and well thought-out state aid has been so far! Well, I'm sure... There are no accusations to the Ministry of Education and Science; we see that trying, but... Well, it doesn't always work. Because you have no regulation... You are obliged to cover these costs in full to the extent necessary and necessary and from the state budget. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U247	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U248	Yes, we have also looked into this case of the municipality of Valka... and this head of the municipality of Valka, I have to say, in purging. And I have to say that basically we've looked at whether we really missed... Because apparently then the Valka District Council would have to come up with a request from the Ministry of Education and Science that they lack equipment. Unfortunately, we found that during this time none of the municipalities of Valka... No communication... not received. the novads of Valkas, neither collected data nor requested support from the Ministry of Education and Science, nothing, and when such support is granted to them, after... taking an algorithm that is on a particular number of students... It should be noted that there are only three schools in Valka district and one of them has already received serious support from European funds directly for digitisation and the purchase of devices in the previous period, so they do not. And there were very few students in the remaining two schools. So, according to the algorithm, how many students we're supposed to have... came or managed from this particular support mechanism, from this particular purchase of computers... number of computers... Well, that... then now they get as far as they get, but all computers have not yet been delivered. Maybe they'll have more computers. But I would call for really local managers to shout, well, start working maybe, collect data in your municipality and if something is missing, then come... address the Ministry of Education and Science and request support, not just on social networks, to increase "all is bad" rhetoric. Well, it's absolutely not a sovereign move. And I would ask him to contact the Ministry of Education and Science first if he really wants to solve some problems rather than simply make a show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U249	Name of Member Evia Papulei. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U250	Thank you. Well, as the debate allows for a real debate, I must say that Valka's example... such specific rebuttals as to who is a good or inappropriate head of a municipality, is not within the competence of Members and is not in the context of the proposal, it seems to me. Is this permissible - it would be a question for the chair of the sitting. In any case... One or more computers, algorithm or neither algorithm, previous investment or not... This does not justify the lack of smart devices at the moment. In any case... The Ministry of Education and Science has so far expressed such a very pretentious determination, and has had huge millions who have been put into procurement, not to mention the blue button procedure and many other things, but at the same time... Of course, there are data from the Latvian Municipal Union, where these requests are quite broad. I know there is cooperation with the Latvian Municipal Union, then... in every case, Mr. Znotiņš, you would also gain a bit of criticism of yourself rather than others, and I have repeatedly asked you not to speak as a dancer who is prevented by the respective organs from dancing, but to use the facts in every case...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U251	Mrs Papules, please be correct in your statements.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U252	... how many smart devices and... or...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U253	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U254	Colleagues! I have to agree - indeed, if the municipal manager or municipality in general has not asked for support, that is not good. And it is good that, at least, the algorithm of the good will of the Ministry of Education and Science, which leads to huge support, is apparently switched on: one computer is being allocated. Well, my recommendation would be to give another one the next time. And then you will be able to write on social networks that the Ministry of Education and Science has increased the support of the municipality to ensure the education process by one hundred percent. Well, colleagues, it's really not funny, because those municipalities that, in turn, indicated the number of computers they need, have not received them or have received much less than there is a real need because there has been a project... because the municipalities themselves have already invested... But it is obvious that all your right-wing algorithms do not have enough resources for everyone. There is therefore this proposal that the law makes it clear: all needs must be met and covered by the state...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U255	Thank you. The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U256	So I'll finish the sentence. The Latvian Municipal Union has data on how necessary it is not only because of the socio-economic situation, but... how much smart equipment children and teachers need in principle to be able to work at a distance in a productive and high-quality way. So... It may be that these data can be said, and then we will help to obtain additional funding, also, for such activities, so that really the process can happen. Then we would also have a debate. But... I understand that the leader of the Saeima... intellectual problems for the current chair of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U257	Impedance on the management of the hearing shall not be admissible. Mrs Papules, please remember this on future occasions. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U258	Dear Latvian society! Lovely opposition! Dear people! Christmas is a time of forgiveness, as we know. Christmas is the time when we forgive our debtors. That is why I would also call on the opposition to forgive this power. Likewise, the whole society would be called to forgive power, for they do not know what they are doing. It's a biblical moment, I think, what's happening this year in Latvia... The moment that this inconceivable folly of the mind permitted by the power over its people... is the time when we have to forgive them because they don't know what they're doing. It's not special, they're just not competent. And it must allow its incompetentness to shine in every possible way. Latvian society must be allowed to understand that this power will bring our land, our people, into poverty even more. With one computer or... You're gonna argue if there's two computers out there... or something else... They have to light up to the last, so that they... so that the earth does not go beyond them, because it is their last turn in life. There will be no question here about whether they will win... or participate in elections... or something else... but otherwise no change is possible, no change is possible only if you reach the lowest point. And we are so close to this lowest point, the dear opposition and the dear society that we have to stop being outrageous about it. We must be happy that we are approaching a huge change in the country, because they - the authorities - do not know what they are doing. And forgive them for it, because it's Christmas time. And let's enjoy...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U259	Mr Gobzem, thank you very much, but how is this in line with proposal 53, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U260	But that's exactly what it's like, that if you send one computer to Valka, then... It's... It's...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U261	Look at Amendment 53!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U262	I am looking very carefully at this, and I see what you will do - you will always vote against it... Proposals 53 or 57. You already have no other button, only "no" - you always vote against the people. All the time! Whether we are talking about the 53rd or 108th, what is the difference?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Just "to"- and forward! And so do so that we can put an end to all this madness sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U263	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U264	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I will call for this proposal to be supported. And I do not agree with the arguments of Mr Znotiņš today, because to put all the blame on the shoulders of local governments, the shoulders of local government leaders. However, there must also be proactive communication from the Ministry of Education and Science, because if you are able to hit the computer boxes, when it comes to the fact that ISM has received and diverted the computers to the municipalities, then you also need to be able to call at least or every municipality and ask: “Did you really just one computer?” There must be a public servant, Mr. Znotiņš, not just an performer or a site performer! You have to be a sovereign, you have to burn for your people right now, for your... for your subordination... on matters within its competence and on all... And for all those for whom you are... for which you are currently obliged to take care of. It's just that you have to burn at work right now, you have to do everything you can to make the top line! And I would like to point out that my colleagues, in their defence of these proposals, have said quite correctly, so that they do not have to cancel their speaking time and do not really have to be denied the opportunity to speak. In my opinion, there are other ways in which the chair of the sitting... may indicate, may interrupt, but not interrupt, speaking time. Thank you. Colleagues, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U265	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U266	Thank you. This proposal is welcome for two reasons. First. During the procurement process, the Ministry of Education and Science probably did not fully investigate the necessity of how many computers and other techniques are necessary to meet the requirements set by the Cabinet of Ministers and by the Education Law. One point. Two points. If, in this crisis situation, municipalities want to correct the Ministry's error and make it possible for every student to learn at a distance and for each teacher to teach at a distance... So these expenses, what... what the municipalities are doing in organising this process must be covered by the state budget. This is the main thrust of the proposal. It is therefore to be supported regardless of the beautiful intentions of the Ministry of Education and Science. And the last one. The chair of the sitting should not only know the roll of order and its requirements, but also the ethical standards, and should not teach the other Members, but would not be wrong to teach themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U267	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U268	Dear colleagues, Well, with this proposal and with what has been said in this debate, I think we all have a pretty good idea of how... on what is going on; on the relationship between the Ministry of Education and Science, the current government and local authorities... as regards the provision of distance training. So some algorithm has been developed in the Ministry of Education and Science. Well, this algorithm is obviously someone... Some intellectual property of the Ministry of Education and Science, for which, of course, the Minister must take responsibility... how this algorithm works. And so it also has a political responsibility. So... Next series: We have the mayor of Valka telling us that - apparently according to this algorithm - they... either, one computer has been assigned to a whole region. So it probably points to problems with this algorithm. But what do we hear? In response to this message about one computer in the Valka district, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science tells us that Valka mayor is squeezing and that what he, mayor, should have done - go more to the ministry with... Well, understand - with some prayer, with the requirements of how much they need a computer. But I have no understanding here - exactly what is being blamed for Valka's mayor? Is he being accused of trusting that the Ministry of Education and Science is able to formulate such a policy, make such calculations, find out how many computers are needed for each region, and then make competent decisions - so that no mayor of the region should then roam, as the parliamentary secretary said? Was the mayor accused of doing so? Is he being accused of... Or then according to Education and Science... The opinion of the current management is that the right action on the part of the head of each district is to assume immediately that the Ministry of Education and Science is not able to make any competent decision and that it is immediately necessary to send as many letters as possible to the Ministry of Education and Science as possible, asking and informing what they really need? Is that, in the view of the Ministry's current management, the right thing to do - based on this assumption? Well, I'm not even talking here about some basic standards of behaviour and ethics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U269	I am closing the debate (Interface: “Zariņš!” )... A wand? I've been told... Okay. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U270	Hello! In response to the debate on this proposal, I would like to say that I cannot agree at all with what my colleague Alda Gobzem said that, when we tackle problems of national importance, we can be guided by the principle that those who do not understand what they are doing should be forgiven. Yes, as a person I completely agree with this, and I am trying to implement this principle in my life, but as a stateman who has to make responsible decisions and make sure that such decisions are made, I do not recognise that principle. I fully agree with what Mr Gobzem said: that indeed we see that there are people who do not understand what they are doing. And we can see it in this rhetoric too: the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science points out that the way in which power works should not be criticised, should not point to what has not been done, and says that it is a squeezing that everything is bad. Excuse me, but have you noticed... have you read the Constitution, which states that Latvia is a democratic state? And in a democratic country, the political system is that there is a position of power and there is opposition and that it is the duty of the opposition to criticise power and point out what is wrong. And in this case, we, the opposition, do our job. If you did your job, we shouldn't talk about what's bad. Since you want to avoid this “all is bad” rhetoric, start doing your job or simply placing your mandate in a position to admit that you are not capable of doing anything! Well and also try to find another computer for the Valka region so that you can then boast that you have doubled your plan and what you have malached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U271	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U272	In the Commission, proposal 53 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U273	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 53. - The motion by Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Dūklav! Please, let's vote! For - 34, for - 51, for - 3. The proposal was rejected. Please enable a section on the procedure. Evija Papule, a Member, has applied for the procedure. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U274	Thank you. At this point, I call on you, as the chair of the sitting, to withdraw the reprimand because, firstly, you did not rely on the Rule of Conduct, and secondly, it does not give you the opportunity to make me point what I have to remember. The roll of order does not provide for the right of the Speaker of the Saeima to indicate what Members have to do or to remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U275	We are continuing the debate. Please! Member Stein is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U276	Thank you. So we have come to the 54th proposal tabled by Members Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinskis, Bergmanis and Dūklav. The proposal provides that the funding required for state and municipal education institutions to ensure adequate quality and quantity of masks for teachers and students in the field is provided from the state budget. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U277	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U278	Colleagues! This proposal is designed to emphasise once again the importance of combining restrictions... Responsibilities of municipalities with appropriate support from the State. We not only impose an obligation on the country to provide and provide funding for the masks, but also that they must have the appropriate quality. I don't know what the best masks are, so that both educators and younger children can spend several hours with them in the classroom by learning quality, because even now, they're using them in practice... I feel like it's in practice... how it is - to work in a mask. I feel quite well that just sit in the mask and look good - it's one. But, being in a mask, to speak regularly (I assume that the teacher will have to do this all day long!) - It's something quite different. Especially if I try to tell you something more energetically, then, I must say, it is not so easy to endure all day long. I hope that those masks that educators will be able to use in schools will be well ventilated and will essentially protect both educators and children. Once again, in order to emphasise the importance of the fact that restrictions must be accompanied by proper support, this proposal has also been created. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U279	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U280	Dear colleagues, Some time ago, we studied the question of the acquisition and relevance of these masks. And we understand that now, as Mr. Znotiņš has already wanted to tell us, there is an idea to buy masks for educators and educators, based on this: what can we afford then, or a competition has been provided for us. But, of course, we will find out who is interested in that competition. Currently, regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers lay down... the annotation contained in them... I.e., Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 360 “Eliminal security measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection”... Amendments have been made to these regulations, and I refer specifically to them, and that is to say, amendments to the regulations of 9 June 2020. And there's annotation of these amendments... Well, I think it's probably not a long time since the developers have included requirements for hygienic masks, say, purchases and use. And these requirements arose not from blue air, but they are the WHO recommendations that we are now probably fulfilling on every step. And these WHO recommendations state that to make these masks... fabric mask... You will talk about them, Mr. Znotiņš, not about single-use medical certified masks... In order for these tissue masks to really protect their carriers from possible contamination, they should have an appropriate degree of filtration, say, for example. Thus, in this case, they are three layers of fabric. And no more than these recommendations. So - fabric mask must be of three layers. What have we found with regard to this mask, the reusable mask, the procurement of the low-income and the poor? We received an answer from Minister Pabrika that... Yes, he admits that these masks, which have been purchased, are only from two layers and are trying to bend by saying that the WHO recommendations are only recommendations and we can already ignore them. A very interesting approach. I really hope to hear from Mr Znotiņš that those masks that you intend to buy now, which you have already spoken, will really be in line with the WHO recommendations on hygienic, reusable masks. And I really would like to see what this match is, what is this test... a statement of compliance; which has tested these masks as many times as they can be washed. Please tell me!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U281	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U282	Colleagues! I am pleased that you raised this question as we will provide these masks. When we raised the question in the Ministry of Education and Science that schools should be supported by masks, municipalities must be supported by masks and these masks must be delivered, and we started to discuss this issue at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, then we... It is very good that we were applied for assistance from the Ministry of Defence, which pointed out its great competence in this matter, and offered to help organise it all. And we were happy to take this initiative and give it to them - to arrange this mask purchase and to do it in accordance with all the recommendations, all norms and all international certificates. So I have no doubt that the Ministry of Defence will do so after the best conscience.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U283	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U284	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! Yes, thank you for your explanation. I understand that Mr Znotiņš does not know exactly what masks will be bought, everything has been given to Mr Pabriks. You have broken down the sphere of influence, as we see, very well. But there is a question to which I have still not received an answer. Please explain why you are changing from time to time, please, the honourable head of the Saeima sitting? Isn't that because you can't sit and reach a mask for more than one and a half hours? Please tell me. And then tell me why you make it do to teachers and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U285	Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U286	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I join this debate for one reason: I support this proposal in any case, because I have submitted a similar proposal to another draft law, namely the draft law on Covid-19, which we will look at immediately after this debate... the draft law currently under consideration. But what's important, in my view? It is important that the state budget is clearly strengthened by the law as the source of funding for the purchase of masks, so that there is no temptation to entrust this funding to municipalities in the future. This is quite important, so I would like to draw attention to this detail of the proposal under consideration. And more. For masks and for the quality of masks. I take this opportunity to talk about it. Maybe really we can find a moderator that can give us an opinion, scientifically justify it... and legitimately also to justify what better masks are? I've heard a lot of times that the facial masks you've used are not hygienic, but I think that if they're washable... if they are washable oral and nasal covers, they can be used repeatedly, and for this reason they will be better than single-use facial masks because single-use masks... Such cover under school conditions is practically inevitable... Well, very poor quality. And in two hours, it is simply impossible to change them. Such masks quickly become invalid and non-hygienic. So I don't think what... A ministry that has been assigned, but... It seems to me that it would be more appropriate for the Ministry of Health - it will be closer to its profile - so that we can know exactly what cover we still have to recommend to our schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U287	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U288	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! Now I would reflect on Mr Znotiņš' smile and the joy with which he announced that the mask purchase was passed on to the Ministry of Defence, rather than explaining how a certified mask for teachers and students would be provided. It seems to me that this is not enough correct communication, nor with fellow Members of the Saeima... or with the public. In my opinion, it would be right to explain - quite seriously and responsibly - what is being done, how and when it will be provided in schools. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U289	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U290	Nothing on behalf of the Commission is to be added. Proposal 54 was not supported, but...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U291	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 54. - The motion by Reizniece-Ozola, Kučinska, Bergmanis and Dūklav! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 49, for - 3. The proposal is not supported. Please enable a section on the procedure. The name to Member Evia... Please apply to talk about the procedure. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U292	Thank you. I just wanted to ask... answer to your question, but it does not matter. I wanted to ask: at what point did there be no reaction when, as the chair of the sitting, you said that there would be a speech by Member Schmidt, but another Member? At what point the system should react that it doesn't... Figure 1 does not correspond to the surname? I invite you to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U293	We are continuing the debate. First name to Member Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U294	I forgive the chairman of the sitting. We have come to the 55th proposal, which is a proposal from the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation. This proposal also provides for allowances of 30 per cent of the salary of educators working on-site. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U295	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U296	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. Proposals for the same content have already been debated. However, I would like to name the simple truths provided by the Latvian Union of Education and Science Workers, which encourage us to maintain the proposal under consideration. Under epidemic conditions, there is an increasing strain in educational institutions. Some of the educators are forced to be self-isolated and continue their work remotely, and this places a greater burden on other colleagues. Pedagogues are at increased risk of getting infected with the coronavirus by contact with schoolchildren. We pay particular attention to the fact that pre-school teachers and staff have an extremely important social function during an emergency. When conducting training at a distance, they shall ensure that their parents are able to carry out their duties and that their children are educated and supervised at that time. In view of the increase in the number of teachers' work, their risks and morbidity, we propose to support trade union requirements and to provide additional allowances of up to 30 per cent of the teacher's wage calculated in the tariffs. Proposals for a similar content have already been examined - I remember this very well - but I ask the Bureau to examine whether our proposal can be put to the vote. And please support the Group's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U297	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U298	Dear colleagues, I will also call for support for this proposal. It is similar to what we presented. As you can certainly see, such proposals have been made by the trade union calling for, knocking on the doors of each political group and independent Members. Those who have responded have submitted the following... similar proposals. I really regret that no coalition colleague came to mind to put something like that or to encourage a government debate on this. I would also like to hear Mr Znotiņš' comment on whether he really understands the circumstances under which teachers are currently working. If we see that the sittings of the Saeima are held alternately, if we have seen all three of these chairmen today... not only today, but also the previous... Thursday, yesterday... Two weeks ago... So... If we already see that the leaders of the Saeima are changing places because they need to wear masks, please imagine that the teachers in these delicate conditions and also in situations of increased stress and increased epidemiological risk... not as you sit as far away as possible in the Saeima sitting room... So teachers now have a lot, a much higher risk, a stress, a risk of burning. Why do we not suggest that teachers can, at the same time, work for only one and a half hours and then take a three - hour break for themselves, and then maybe come back? We propose it! Now, honourable colleagues, it looks really very, very bad at the situation with regard to teachers compared to the situation of Members of the Saeima and the situation with regard to the conduct of parliamentary sittings. We see it, we have recorded it. We do not have any other explanation of why the Heads of the Saeima are changing places at the moment, just so that the Head of the Seimas can conduct the sitting fully and then fully relax and restore his strength from the lack of breath when speaking in the mask. We can see that teachers do not have this opportunity and that teachers are indeed excluded from working on the ground. And where else to talk about preschool educators! They already seem to me to be really terminators in your eyes... they have to be sent to... I don't know, on missions... They're absolutely in your eyes... at no time... Let's say, well, inviolable... is not exposed at all to any danger. They will continue to work during this block. Just imagine who you expose them! Colleagues! I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U299	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U300	Yeah, thank you. I thank Member Stepanenko for supporting our proposal. This is a good contribution to the development of state support for pupils and teachers in our schools in the right direction. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the essence of our proposal is to support the requirements of the trade union and to impose additional allowances of up to 30 per cent for those working with learners... so that they can be secured. It is important that we really avoid the burdens and tensions that are now in schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U301	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U302	This proposal is with the addition that this order should be laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers, so it should be put to the vote. In the Commission, proposal 55 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U303	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 55. - the proposal of the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 50, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U304	56. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko, Papules and Dombrovskis. It is foreseen that the Cabinet of Ministers should ensure the provision of funds for unforeseen cases in cooperation with municipalities for oral and nasal coverage of educational institutions by 4 January 2021. In the Commission, this proposal was rejected because of this proposal... was mentioned... but it should also apply to 54th, as pointed out by representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers... At the meeting of the panel, it was pointed out that the masks would be secured. Central government procurement on masks is organised and will be provided. Therefore also proposal 56 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U305	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U306	Colleagues! We understand from this: it will be provided, but we do not support the proposal because it will be provided. It's really a very strange logic. What I would like to add to this whole story about the mask shopping that we are going to explore under the ceiling, honourable colleagues, is that... also expressing a desire for action by the government... obliges children to wear these masks... It is still a controversial issue. If we think that children at school should be given such conditions and sickness numbers, then I think that some good government do not think that children are our greatest value... And masks could protect them in some way. That's why I also insist on... In my view, in this case, all the material interests should be put aside a little bit. All of these... The whole conversation, the existence of all friends in this case must also be put aside, honourable colleagues who are now thinking about buying masks. We have to think first and foremost about children's health, because we don't have, honourable colleagues, more than more expensive than children and children are not some kind of substitutable resource that... It's... Let's make new tomorrow. No, colleagues, children's health needs to be protected very carefully. And Mr. Perevosčikov said very recently that children are also sick and sick, and there are no exceptions here. So... Designed for children of incomprehensible origin, incomprehensible quality masks that... no one will be able to track how they will be washed, how high at the temperature, or how they will retain their properties... We can't risk it. That is why I insist on the fact that this procurement... be properly certified medical disposable masks so that children - if you really think they have to go to school at this time and... you need to go to school - you could change the masks hygienically every two hours under the supervision of the teacher, throw them into the dedicated container, and continue to learn, because only these masks (the sound break.) ... children may be protected against possible infection, not by any peelings or contact with any other article. We are very well aware that this article... When you buy this product, you will pay not 12 percent VAT, but all - a full 21 percent VAT, which means that it is not a medical mask, but it is a product that is interesting perhaps for your friends or relatives. Dear colleagues, I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U307	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U308	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! It is very positive that both the Ministry of Education and Science and the government as a whole have already considered the need to provide both municipalities, schools and educational institutions... pre-school institutions... provide with masks for both children and those educators and teaching staff who provide a training process on-site, but our proposal... It was built in the longer term, in the discussion, and it meant truly targeted, proactively responding, providing mass workers and children with masks in this area. This is only correct: if the government imposes restrictions, then the government also provides compensatory instruments and also provides for appropriate mechanisms to protect the health and, possibly, life of educators and pupils, in particular in this case. It is really important that those products that will buy... it is not important that they are purchased by the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Education and Science, that they meet safety standards, health standards and that they are safe for our children and our educators. That is the most important thing. And one more thing. In general, I think it would also be a good thing if the opposition proposal were to be supported by providing for this mandatory security instrument in this draft law... teachers and pupils. At the same time, it will also ensure - in addition - parliamentary responsibility and participation in the process, taking care of the health and life of the general public and of our children and educators. Please support this proposal, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U309	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U310	Thank you. I'll try without emotions. If the reason for rejecting the proposal is that it will already be implemented, then, to be honest, it is not particularly serious. The only argument that could be - that the government cannot implement this proposal by the time it is set out in the very text of the proposal. But if the proposal is to be supported and feasible, then it should have been voted on in this bill... and also support during the debate. Second moment. You see, the whole debate that we have on this draft law is very close to absurd, because the outcome can be very elemental, that is, the alternative is limited: this draft law will be either supported or rejected. If this is rejected, it means that the government should resign, because it is at the same time distrusting the government. If it is accepted - and will be accepted by everything that is recorded in that bill - it is not meaningful for the whole discussion that we have today, yesterday and in the future. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U311	Debate... No, I'm not closing the debate yet. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U312	Dear colleagues, I would like to add that if there are questions concerning the source of funds, then... We have guided by Mrs Šuplinska's response to our questions about ensuring these masks for teachers and educators when drawing up this proposal. And this reply specifically states that the Cabinet of Ministers ensures this procurement from... specifically from... Consequently, from heading 02.00 ‘Unforeseen assets’. That is why I support Mr Dolgopolov's misunderstanding... I add to this misunderstanding that in this case already... on a proposal drawn up correctly, in my opinion, should not be put to the vote. I think that then you send a completely different signal to the government that such a purchase does not have to be made. It may be that there's some other procurement you've planned, I don't really know. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U313	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, please, and what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U314	On behalf of the Commission, I repeat: proposal 56 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U315	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 56. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko, Papules and Dombrovskis! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 52, for - 3. The proposal is not supported. Colleagues, it's time for a break. Registration of the presence of Members has expired. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. Thank you for your work. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U316	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 864/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U317	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! We stayed on the 57th proposal, which is equal to the 56th proposal, which we have already debated and decided on. This proposal cannot be put to the vote, but a debate can be held on it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U318	Members have not applied for a debate and agree with the Commission's views.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U319	58. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U321	59. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U323	60. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U325	61. - the proposal of Finance Minister Reira. Tap, taking into account that the point of the transitional provisions is no longer necessary. The Commission is supported by changing the numbering of the following paragraphs accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U327	62. - a proposal from the Legal Office equal to proposal 61. It has been supported by the Commission - just like the 61st proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U329	63. - the proposal by Members Zakatistova, Nemiro, Eglišs, Znotiņš and Pavilut. As regards proposal 32, the transitional provisions on the framework for the promotion of private investment are clarified. The Commission has partially supported and included 64. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U330	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U331	64. - a Commission proposal in which the Commission improved its proposal 63. And the Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U333	65. - a proposal from the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation. It states that “the Cabinet provides allowances for teachers of preprimary education institutions, primary schools, vocational orientations and teaching staff of higher education institutions, colleges of higher education”... Similar to the proposals that we have already debated. In the Commission, proposal 65 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U334	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U335	Good afternoon! Indeed, during the debate, the attention of the Saeima has already been drawn to the note of the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union that, by referring to Article 25 of the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Effects, the Cabinet of Ministers has made an exception to pre-school, primary and vocational school teachers, university and college teachers by adopting its order to provide support to teachers of general educational institutions in the provision of distance learning. Meanwhile, for the provision of distance learning and studies, the workload of teachers and teaching staff has increased, both by developing new teaching and study materials, integrating new working methods and remotely maintaining links with the learners. The use of personal resources by educators and teaching staff for distance teaching from home has also increased considerably. Therefore, by supporting the trade union of Latvian Education and Science workers, we propose to provide bonuses for teachers of pre-school institutions, primary schools and vocational schools, as well as university and college teachers who implement distance learning. We are invited to support the Group's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U336	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U337	In the Commission, proposal 65 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U338	Please call me! We will vote for 65. - the proposal of the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U339	66. - a proposal from the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation. It's also... Like the previous debate... for teachers' allowances, the procedure of which shall be laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers in these circumstances. Proposal 66 is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U340	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U341	In its letter to the Members of the Saeima, the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union also named a possible source of financial support for teachers, which has already been mentioned in other proposals today. In particular, it is the balance of the target grant granted to municipalities in the previous budget year, which exceeds one per cent of the target grant and for which - according to the current regulations - the target grant is reduced in the current budget year. The trade union stressed that this money can be extra for educators... salary allowances. We believe that the trade union proposal is sensible. Therefore, by supporting the invitation of the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union, we propose to allow the use of teachers' allowances (for performing additional duties to provide training in the circumstances of the epidemic!) the part of the targeted grant which was awarded from the state budget for the remuneration of teachers in municipal schools and state university... general secondary education institutions, but not the assigned amount for the salaries of educators of educational institutions in 2020. We call for support for our group's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U342	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U343	In the Commission, the 66th proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U344	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 66. - The Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 46, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U345	67. - Mrs Regina Lochmele's proposal. It provides for the addition of transitional provisions stating: ‘The rules laid down in the first paragraph of Article 4 of this Law also apply to those taxable persons affected by the Covid-19 crisis who have been granted an extension of the period for payment of the tax but who are unable to comply with the payment deadlines laid down in the decision of the tax administration in relation to the spread of Covid-19 infection. Those taxpayers shall submit a reasoned application to the tax administration by 1 January 2021.’ This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U346	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U347	Hello, colleagues! This proposal would allow those companies that have agreed with the State Revenue Service during the first wave of the first wave of crisis, to extend the deadline for paying taxes... A schedule was drawn up for them. But a number of these companies came under the ban to work this spring, so they were granted an extension of their tax period; according to this timetable, they had to resume payments in November of this year. However, in November this year, the government decided to ban companies from operating again in certain areas. And, of course, these companies did not have any opportunity to start carrying out the schedule drawn up by the State Revenue Service. This my proposal would allow to strengthen by law the right of such companies to submit a new application to the State Revenue Service and to initiate the entire procedure for three years... the extended timetable is renewed so as not to put companies that have already suffered in spring of this year at a disadvantage compared with those that will apply for an extension of tax - up to three years - again from the autumn of this year only. Please support my proposal, thus supporting all Latvian companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U348	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U349	Dear colleagues, I will also call for support for the updating of Mrs Ločmele's proposal. Me too... Well, we've already examined our proposals on extending the real estate tax period, which is now not just... we offer not just an extension of the deadline, but we offer not to collect a fine. And so it would be very topical for the rest of the payments expected from the people as well. As we can see, this support, which the businessmen were looking forward to, from the 9th to the 10th dates, is still still... is still starting to pay, so it's very big... Well, this... very large, so to say, a cross between the ban on sanctions and some measures that support operators in some way. In the meantime, very many have probably tried to find help in some events or in various other loans to put some end together. And now... and now that we are talking about the tax administration, this proposal is, in my opinion, very, very good and very valuable and, in fact, spares entrepreneurs. I call for this proposal to be supported. Once again, thank you to Mrs Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U350	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U351	Proposal 67 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U352	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 67. - Mrs Ločmele's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 47, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U353	Two final proposals remain. 69. is the proposal of Member Stepanenko, which states: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall decide until 20 December 2021 on support measures for those natural and legal persons who were partially or totally denied the possibility to earn income due to restrictions imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers from 14 October 2020.” The Commission had a wide-ranging debate on this issue. The current aid measures are available to all from 9 November. State and... As mentioned in the Commission, state and municipal subsidies were maintained. The Commission said that there was probably a group of private providers of interest education services, which should be supported from 14 October due to restrictions, although there were also restrictions but could be continued work in the outdoors. This question... and he said to the Commission... were also representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers... and, possibly, should be improved at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. As a result of the debate, this specific proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U354	Colleagues! Proposal No 68. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U355	Yes, honourable colleagues, indeed there was a debate in the Commission, and thank you, too, the Head of the State Revenue Service joined up on this issue and once again introduced clarity into what our taxpayers are then entitled to receive this compensation because they were denied income. And yes, for the sake of clarity, so these sanctions, which were introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers on 14 October, when the emergency situation had not yet begun, and which concerned teachers of interest education, will not be present, for this moment... we don't see... Thus, the income foregone, the losses incurred by the managers of groups of various interests between 14 October and 9 November will not be compensated. So these two weeks were actually stolen because there is no talk about some kind of help at the moment. If you believe that this should be clarified at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, we would like to see how you can do this. We would like to see even a project for this moment. There is no project. Colleagues, October 14 was very, very long ago. So this date is very old. In the meantime, much has happened, and in the meantime, indeed, people have been disappointed at government events. What... what we also heard in the Commission regarding teachers of interest education - so the complete misunderstanding from ISM about the fact that there is also... there are also private operators of educational events of interest who do not really receive any support from the municipality. And there are also those who cannot organise outdoor classes, so we have a category with people who are still trying to survive at the moment, with the support of their parents, because parents do not want to lose out on this area of interest education themselves, but on the part of the government there is no help, there are no promises. The only promise we have just heard today from maybe... Yes, on the rapporteur's side, it is perhaps that any changes to the rules may be made at government level. Unfortunately, however, we now have another waiver from the Commission. Mrs Indicice, by the way, really wanted to support this proposal from the National Union and she also took part in the debate. Thank you for that. Perhaps Mrs Indricsones can also help us once again as we knock at the door of colleagues and ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U356	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U357	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I just want a little insight into making this proposal... explain. So we're already... On 2 November, we submitted proposals with independent Members providing for mechanisms... support mechanisms for restrictions imposed by the Government on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers from 14 October onwards. And that is, those restrictions affected the education of interests and sports activities. As a result, part of the private practice... for those working in this field... they did not receive previously planned income and their income decreased, living standards decreased, and not because of their actions or will, but because of restrictions imposed by the government. It is not necessary to convene many meetings of PR experts and meetings, which took place, for example, during this week's meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, to ask them how they then need to communicate with the public on the part of the government on the political side, on the part of the ruling coalition. It is simply necessary to show that we, as Members and you, as governments and coalitions, really care about people's fate, people's income and people's situation. It's obvious that this segment... who are active in the field of private education and, consequently, conduct sports activities... from October 14th, their income had fallen... the amount of income. And so, too, the government should have envisaged some tools to provide compensation, or a safety cushion, which would also enable these people to overcome and... overwintering or overwintering this critical situation. This was not done. That is why we submitted at that time, on 2 November, the draft law that was unfortunately rejected and rejected it by declaring that new proposals would become immediately. And that's those... This draft law was also created. And there will also be, accordingly, the aid that is necessary for everyone, but the aid is indeed only provided from the moment when the emergency situation is declared. So these people who fall out of the field and who do not receive help and support. So, I don't think it's necessary to ask for advice from PR specialists and call training... We simply need to do our job by caring for those who need our help. Thank you. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U358	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U359	Colleagues! There are several interest education groups where, as I said, parents... In principle, everything stays on the parents right now. And, colleagues, you have also loaded it on your parents again, because parents are those who are trying to keep this event alive with the leaders of the groups. Well, imagine, it's not just... At present, there is no question of making any profit. At the moment, it is a matter of drawing ends together so that the rent can be paid so that the equipment can be maintained so that it can be simple, let's say, don't go minus the whole event, and many have already gone minus, many of them pay out of their own pocket - the leaders themselves. How many parents can, so they, let's say, support, but colleagues, a lot of education... interest education industries can die, thanks to this nihilism, and never again, for example, we are talking about capoeira classes - they will simply disappear, everything, there will be no more.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U360	Thank you, thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U361	In the Commission, 68 proposals were not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U362	Please call me! We will vote for 68. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 33, against - 47, abstaining - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U363	Proposal 69 is from Member Švekova. The proposal is identical to 68, is not put to the vote, but a debate is possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U364	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U365	Colleagues, I will maintain my hope that perhaps what I say will come to you and you will also try to correct this error in the government. The next law we will look at is the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection. And in it, too, I tried to put forward a proposal that all the restrictions imposed on the basis of this law before the emergency occurred and which have had the consequences for people - they would be reparable. I have been told in the Commission that this proposal does not really fit into the law; it must be brought into this law. And, by putting it in this law, of course, I hear that, well, we won't support it, but we don't understand why. What is in the next law that we are about to see is that it is only now that... an obligation for the Cabinet of Ministers to compensate for all measures which cause all the damage caused by the Cabinet by its own prohibitions. And, do you think, how do those people who have suffered losses from 14 October and who will not be compensated for those losses because the norm only comes into force later? Please, we won't really... Well, don't be cynical, and remember that these people you are trying to try, so to say, robbing... you have not paid them for those two weeks if. They work with the kids... they work with children from the heart. It's their heartwork. They're trying, they're trying to pull ends together, they can't pull ends together, because they're invisible in the eyes of the government, I don't think. And I'll repeat: on 14 October... From October 14 to November 9, we still had open the gaming halls and everything was fine, but the education of interests was closed and no reward was provided for it. I call on my fellow Members - please remember that you have not done this homework that you have had to do. So we must help these people who are left behind. Please make provision for the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, I don't know where... make provision for this reward for people who are so... who are denied income. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U366	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U367	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I read the decision published and adopted today by the Estonian Government to allocate EUR 5 023 355 to the solution of the crisis. And the target audience receiving this support will be the companies most affected by the crisis, as well as culture, sport, private education and education of interest, as well as the relevant segment of private education institutions. What does that mean? This means that the Estonian Government has found that this segment was not sufficiently secured by State aid and granted an additional amount of sufficiently serious, or EUR 5 million, which is sufficiently good and concrete, and also found it to be private education and private interest education that has suffered and that it also needs a benefit and support. Therefore, I really ask my colleagues to pay attention to this and also to provide a sufficient safety cushion and protective cushion in this area in order to compensate for the restrictions introduced by the government and the Cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U368	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U369	Colleagues, while commenting on the education of interests, perhaps, I must say, however: the retirement allowance, including the self-employed, who are often providers of education of interests, is available to all taxpayers in all sectors for the period from 9 November 2020 to 2020... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day We agree, of course, that the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, by introducing additional security measures to reduce the incidence of Covid–19 infection, affected teachers employed in education of interest, especially in the private sector, even before declaring the emergency situation. However, the most important thing is to remember that state and local government support for interest educators is being continued, which was not interrupted at any time. That's the point one. The two points - the programme of interest education could be implemented remotely within the same class or individually. It was not denied either. That must also be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U370	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U371	Mr. Znotins, we heard everything in the Commission. The fact that a self-employed worker can receive support from 9 November is yes, but I think we have already made a different date - 14 October. And between October 14 and November 9, there's a time that's just stolen by people. And we talked about support from the municipality, and I think you missed a discussion because support from the municipality is only for those sectors, only those groups that are respectively... they have cooperation with municipalities, but there are a lot of private. If you are talking about online lessons, yes, for example, capoeira classes can happen online, but let's say, honourable colleagues, how many parents will agree to continue these classes online at the same price and how many parents will think and say that they will better wait for the time when this opportunity will be given. Please stop hypocritical and lying, please support these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U372	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U373	Yeah, thank you. One point - the municipality can support, but within the resources available to them, which means that there are a number of municipalities that cannot afford to do so, so they will not support the education of genuinely private interests. The two points are also, respectively, part of parents and children, simply because of their age or some other reason (psychological emotional) that cannot and cannot participate in these groups remotely, and therefore cannot take advantage of this opportunity, and it reduces both income and the possibility of being supported accordingly in this area. That is why our proposal was also made, and that is why we are also asking for attention to be given to it in time to understand which segment... which are the ones affected and what they need, albeit minimum, support or benefit. It does not ensure that rental payments are supported or compensated because of restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U374	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U375	Colleagues, really a lot of things have already been said, I just... reflecting on what Mr Znotiņš said that all paths can work remotely to ensure education of interests. Now try to run and also take part in ballet lessons by using remote platforms. It really does. My daughter also training in this way every week, but I wouldn't say that they are high-quality classes, and group leaders also realize that, by moving such and similar classes to electronic platforms, many parents lose the motivation to pay a relatively large amount of money for their monthly activities. And the parents fall away... or tell their children to wait a better time. Logically, revenue is falling. While they are trying to find all kinds of solutions by reducing the membership fee, they understand that they also have their own bills, monthly payments do not fall, now it is a huge blow in the pocket. Even for those who really try to work and find creative solutions such as teaching ballet through the Zoom, it is difficult for them too, and so this proposal is, I would say, a minimum programme of how they can be supported. It simply seems to me that it is sometimes better to keep quiet than to comment on such a rather large arrogance, perhaps without going into practical life and applying what is visible around it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U376	I closed the debate. So the proposal is not a voteable one, but perhaps something to explain on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U377	I just wanted to mention, in addition to this, on behalf of the Commission, that, already from the summer, there have been incentives for rents, which one of my fellow Members has mentioned, and they have been in place throughout the period, not only from 9 November, and will also work next year, as we have already decided in the law. There is nothing more to be added to me; this is not a voting proposal, as 68 has been rejected. And they are the same.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U378	So we have examined all the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U379	We have examined all the proposals, and on behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (tax) I call for support for the draft law "Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection" in the second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U380	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection” (No. (864/Lp13) in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - 5, for - 16. The law is passed. Draft Law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 861/Lp13), second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U381	Good evening, colleagues! See amendments to the Covid-19 law on the spread of infection. Draft Law No 861/Lp13. Overall, we have 38 proposals. 1. is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. And it is about the fact that if an emergency is not announced in the country, then the Cabinet could impose restrictions if the Saeima Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission had not decided otherwise. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U382	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U383	Colleagues! I objected to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers had been given special powers outside the emergency situation to impose these prohibitions. As we can see, there has just been an upheaval of the debate, there are already insulted, completely unreasonably offended, interest education teachers who do not currently have the hope of receiving compensation for the damage and losses caused to them by the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, in my view, the actions of this Cabinet of Ministers should necessarily be coordinated with the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, so, just like we have a statutory... these appropriations from the Minister for Finance, which are only to be supported... which only enter into force when they have been supported... examined and supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Similarly, it should be envisaged in this case - only if the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission has dealt with these various new prohibitions at a specific time and has not opposed them - should they only enter into force because - what we see? We see that at the moment, therefore, the law provides for the Cabinet to create various new prohibitions not only outside the emergency situation, but also during the emergency situation. This means that what will come to the Saeima - this order for an emergency and its extension, in which the Saeima can, at least, intervene theoretically and at least vote against, if these orders are false... Then, when the Cabinet of Ministers issues regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of this Law, they have nothing to do with the Saeima, the Saeima has no right to audit or reconfirm the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, and they start to operate as the Cabinet of Ministers intends. I'll repeat it again. As we have just encountered a situation where the Cabinet of Ministers has thus destroyed education on the basis of its mandate granted by the Saeima... interest education for private these... entrepreneurs without any consequences without any commitment - just taken and done... If it were to be passed through the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission, then it is likely that at least one or two Members would ask: “But what will be the reward? How can we continue to work with these people?’ And then it would perhaps also result in an appropriate improvement of these rules. Because at the moment, the Cabinet is simply doing what it wants. I call on you to support this proposal that the Cabinet of Ministers should have been given these powers only at the time when it was given them, and only in agreement with the Commission - Protection... I call on you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U384	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U385	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, what I wanted to add - there was a debate on this, and the motivation for rejection was that the Cabinet should be able to respond quickly enough. If this was still to come to the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission and sittings were held, then there would be no speed of this response. I'll lose the point of all this. So... That is all I wanted to add on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U386	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 23, for - 49, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U387	Thank you, colleagues. Let's go. I hope I hear better, I have notes that I hear less. So 2 is the proposal of Minister for Welfare Ramon Petravič. And that's a clarification of Article 4(18), which provides for the arrangements for financing... finance assistant services in municipalities, universities and colleges... This proposal is supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U389	3. is the proposal of the Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Ulda Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gundars Dauges, Viktors Valaiņa and Jānis Vacāns, which intends to amend the second paragraph of Article 4 and complement it by providing appropriate support measures to those groups whose rights and legitimate interests were restricted. In the Commission, it was debated and was not supported, because these support measures are another law that we just looked at... Previous event... Sub-topic 1.2 — Transmitters
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U390	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U391	Thank you to Mr Rancan for his report. I understand that, in the Commission, the votes on these proposals were divided precisely in half, four against four. I hope, however, that the majority of the Saeima will vote in favour of this proposal because, in essence, it provides for respect for the principle that, if the government imposes any restrictions that violate the rights or legitimate interests of any person or group of persons, appropriate support measures are provided accordingly for those groups of persons. In its legislative version, the Government has provided that in such a case it shall assess the need for support measures. This is the only thing, but the very important thing that we are proposing to change is that it does not assess the need for support measures, but provides for appropriate support measures. In this context, colleagues, I think you will agree that the argument that this regulation is not the subject of this law does not pass criticism, because the draft law that the government has proposed to us to vote actually lays down the order that, yes, in such a case, the government is assessing the need for support measures. The only thing that is changing is that we are saying that it is binding on the government - not to assess yet, but to provide for appropriate support measures. I think this is a logical proposal, and I call on you to support it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U392	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U393	Colleagues! It also seems to me that this original version, which states that the Cabinet of Ministers is merely assessing the need, is really a very cynical version, because it can... and can assess this need for an endless period of time, but does not finally decide or say that there will be no action... how, we know, with the teachers of interest education now... However, the reasons why these votes were distributed within the Commission are not clear to me either. I also took part in my similar proposals. In this case, I think that its wording is correct enough for all the Members of the Saeima to be able to support it, because it clarifies the wording received from the government, which certainly - I also understood from the debate - does not satisfy the members of the coalition. I will call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U394	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U395	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. Yeah, the voices were in half.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U396	Mr. Rancan, we are hearing you wrong again.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U397	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U398	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Plant, Bergman, Many, Valaiņa and Wuzan! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 51, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U399	4. is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. It is very similar in substance - concerning the imposition of these aid measures - but it only provides that they are fixed within a reasonable time, but not later than... no later than seven calendar days after the prohibition or restriction. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U400	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U401	Colleagues! As we can see, unfortunately, we cannot trust the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue... then my proposal was perhaps much more detailed in terms of aid, because we know that these prohibitions and restrictions, which came into force even outside these rules, were not adequately covered by the necessary support during an emergency. At first, we received a letter, a reply, which says that all these support measures should be coordinated with the European Commission, then the Ministry of Economics changed this mechanism a little and understood that the coordination of aid can also be achieved within the borders of Latvia. While all these processes took place, people were waiting for support and lived in complete misunderstanding, trying to draw ends together. In this case, in the light of the bitter experience with all the bans and in the light of the bitter experience with the deceived teachers of interest education, I believe that we should set a reasonable time limit for these support measures. In my view, the seven days could be a half to a tight deadline during which a person might perhaps try to survive something until this support measure appears, and at the same time, of course, ministries could also sort things out. That deadline should perhaps even take place more quickly, but we know what capacity is, we know that will definitely oppose us, that it is not enough, so that, for seven days, it was also chosen from my side to be able to hope that this proposal would be supported by the coalition, no matter how naive it would be. I therefore call on you, my fellow Members, to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U402	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U403	Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal, given that the previous one was not supported. Although there would be a real request for some clarification, at least from Mr Rancana as rapporteur, since both Mr Rancana and Mr Gunna supported this proposal at the Commission's meeting, and now I am looking at the vote that it is 'no' or that it has not been voted at all. It seems to me that it would be very important, however, to give a clear signal from the Saeima that, in the case of restrictions, adequate support will be provided, otherwise at this time, by voting against and leaving such a loose or mild formulation, or so inaccurate and non-binding, you are sending a clear signal to the public that, yes, there will be restrictions, but the appropriate support measures are not guaranteed at all, we will only think about them and perhaps we will still organise a working group, but, colleagues, I think that this is completely in conflict with what the head of government, which ministers, after their regular sittings usually, when comes out to the public, try to prove that... And we've never heard it... that the restrictions must be accompanied by appropriate support measures. It's just logical. I think that we will have less tension, less resistance from society, if society knows that the government and the Saeima have good intentions and real concerns that they really have. Now, saying... and it does not require either money or anything else, but a commitment that appropriate measures will be secured, as has been promised many times... by not by your previous vote, not by this vote, you will show that you are not a reliable partner to the public. I really call for listening and voting in favour. This is not difficult, and I think that this proposal is also logically prepared, reasoned and supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U404	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U405	Colleagues, we often hear the embarrassment that society does not understand that society does not understand the new prohibitions, that it is necessary to endure and all together to overcome this crisis. But I think what we've been trying to tell you for a month now, that this communication with society is urgent, urgent and this commitment must be improved: it is the first basic step towards building a sense of understanding on the part of society, because, by prohibiting and saying: you know, you're not going to ask for money yet, because we haven't done things yet, but you're closing down your restaurants and clubs and sports clubs in the meantime... It doesn't work anywhere. And then you're angry about why people don't listen to bans and fly in shops or, I don't know what else they're doing. You have to act as caring nationals, but unfortunately...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U406	Name of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezainius.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U407	Honourable Members! At the moment, we are arguing to a large extent about just one word: 'to assess' or 'not to assess', and we are always in government, and also from the Ministry of Economics... just how there are some additional restrictions, there have also been sittings where, if it was such an amazing, say, the spread of the disease... is that we are actually looking immediately for the most rapid options to build different support mechanisms. I would also remind you that the national social assistance system as a whole has several levels. There is social support, support for entrepreneurs, support for entrepreneurship, its launch, research, science and so on. But what surprised me in this proposal and perhaps from the members of the opposition, looking at the previous draft law, are you yourself (A sound defect.) ... additional restrictions on the functioning of a given sector, justified by a wide range of impacts and other matters. You understand that, in this situation, if there were such a regulation, as you propose, the government should support the gambling industry from public resources. I thought... and we all understand the purpose of this proposal. We are really working on providing support for any restrictions that have arisen as a result of the epidemiological situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U408	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U409	Colleagues! It has a huge difference in regulation in one word that we are discussing (or in this case in two or three words). I will try to give you another example by transferring it to another situation, perhaps by clicking better on what it is about. So there is a big difference, or I tell you, as an employer, I will pay you a salary, and you will have - or I will tell you - you are now working for a month, and then I will assess the possibility of paying you a salary sometime. This is the difference that we are fighting for you to have a clear message to the public - restrictions are imposed, then support is also... the appropriate aid will be, not that the government will only assess whether anything is necessary in that case. This would also make it much easier for you to communicate with society.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U410	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U411	Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the motivation for rejecting both the previous proposal and this proposal, as I have already mentioned, was that it refers to the previous law, which deals with overcoming the effects of Covid-19 infection. This law is about the management of the Covid-19 infection, i.e. the support measures are seen in the law dealing with the management of the consequences. If, as a result of restrictions, it was established... there were consequences, and then these consequences must be overcome by the previous law that we have just spoken about. That was the reason for the rejection, and it was the Commission's dominant position. This proposal is therefore also not supported by the Commission. Colleagues (Sound Break) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U412	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 52, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U413	Go on. The next proposal is... 5. is a proposal from the Legal Office which provides for the exclusion of the words ‘essential’ and ‘essential’ from the third paragraph of Article 4 and the replacement of the word ‘who’ by ‘who’. It is about the fact that in the previous version it was planned that the Cabinet of Ministers informed the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption about restrictions that seriously violate the rights of individuals, and the Legal Bureau proposes to remove the word “essential”, as it would be desirable for the Saeima to report all restrictions and to be informed about everyone. The Commission is therefore in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U414	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U415	Yes, colleagues, it is really a very useful and essential proposal from the Legal Bureau. In my opinion, the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission is, in any case, fully entitled to make various proposals for these various measures. However, in response to our discussion on support measures, I would like to add that, you know, this kind of football is not appropriate. Then we unite these laws together! We are making one law, where there are consequences as well as the fight against the community, but in this way, let us say, football from one law to the other - it is not appropriate, because in this law, I will remind you, so the Cabinet of Ministers has the power to act in its own discretion with the freedoms and rights of persons, not in coordination with the Saeima, and on this... Thus, on the basis of this law, the Cabinet of Ministers is causing them damage. The Cabinet of Ministers should provide in this law for a purely logical way for something not to be held responsible for this damage, for this harmful, sometimes harmful, activity that we saw with teachers of interest education. And to Mr Miezaiņa, I would like to say that, you know, if you really do follow the principle of 'that there would be no such thing for Susan', then we may be eliminating all the support measures at all, because you are paying compensation to Susan at the moment, but you are not paying compensation to capoeira's teachers, because they do not deserve it because you do not intend to support those that you have been dealing with under your Cabinet of Ministers' regulations. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U416	I closed the debate. Are Members asking for a vote on this proposal? On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U417	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U418	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The legal office's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - 2 and for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U419	Thank you, colleagues. 6. is the Member Normunds Gunna's proposal, which intends to include in the wording previously from the Cabinet of Ministers that the Cabinet of Ministers informs the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption about the restrictions imposed... The proposal by Normund Gunna states that it is not one specific committee, but the Saeima. And this proposal is partly supported, included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U420	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U421	7. is Member Julija Stepanenko's proposal to supplement, i.e. to amend the third paragraph of Section 4 of the draft law by stating that the regulations on restrictions and prohibitions issued by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of this law shall enter into force when the Saeima Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption... have examined them within five working days of the relevant date of information and have not objected to them. In the Commission, this proposal has already been rejected for the reasons set out above that such the entry into force of these restrictions and rules could hinder a rapid response to the situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U422	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U423	Dear colleagues, At present, an operational response to events in this situation is possible to the Cabinet of Ministers with the help of emergency instruments. And, as we can see, the Cabinet uses it very well in various ways. That's why these rules... We are currently talking about the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which have been issued on the basis of this law. Thus, the special mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers to impose other prohibitions outside the emergency situation during the regulatory period and the emergency situation, as we see... because you did not support my proposal that these measures should not be duplicated. First of all, it's a mess. Secondly, it is really an unjustified double right for the Cabinet of Ministers to create such prohibitions that are not visible and cannot be confirmed at all in the Saeima. I will therefore ask you to support this proposal because... So I repeat, if we are talking about the objections that have been to this proposal, because it will slow down this operational response to events, then - no, it is not. Currently, the Cabinet of Ministers can react promptly by adopting orders with force of law regarding the emergency situation. If the Cabinet wants to impose some other prohibitions or obligations on individuals in a quiet way, as we remember the duty of shoppers to control masking discipline, then such rules, honourable colleagues, in my view, are only to be passed through the Commission for the Prevention of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption. And if the commission does not object within five days, it shall take effect. Because, well, there's really a very high risk of creating a mess that you've already created, but it shouldn't be continued. I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U424	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U425	On behalf of the Commission, I would add that in the future... as you will see from the following articles of the bill, then there will be an opportunity for the Saeima itself to respond to such rules at the moment when the Cabinet will report to us on the restrictions imposed... where the relevant norm exists. So, colleagues, I call on you not to support and vote as a commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U426	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 20, for - 48, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U427	Next - 8. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It is also in this version that it is possible that the Cabinet of Ministers informs the Saeima about restrictions on persons and the Saeima further designates a commission of responsibility, which is entitled to consider and make proposals on relevant regulations and also measures that should be taken or corrected. This commission is, of course, supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U429	Next - 9. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. It is envisaged to exclude the fourth paragraph of Article 4 of the draft law, which concerns the declaration by the Cabinet of Ministers of its departure from certain human rights to international organisations in accordance with the procedures laid down in international treaties. There will also be further proposals in the future, and I will explain this separately in a broader way.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U430	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U431	Colleagues! A little further comment before I explained this proposal. I wanted to remind you that we have signed all these proposals to the Commission together with Karina Sprūdi. I have evidence that Karina has also signed, but this does not appear in the table. I also reported this to the Commission. I received a reply from the consultant that everything had been received, but, as we can see, the table does not appear, so please check the information again. These are the proposals that we have put forward together, but the name of Karina does not appear. This is a violation. With regard to my proposal, Amendment 9, which has been drawn up together with Karin, I could say that there is, in principle, no reason to make provision in law for this special right to derogate from human rights obligations, unless there is any evil intention to provide that such rights should also be granted outside the emergency situation. For, as we know, then the Cabinet of Ministers could declare a departure from the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in the spring - when it was the first wave of the community. Because that departure was necessary for reasonable reasons, there were both restrictions on assembly and various restrictions on private life and Article 15 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms allows it, of course, by reservation if it is an emergency or war. Whether it was a wish to redetermine an emergency on the part of the legislator, or something else, or it was a carelessness - I am not going to judge. However, such a proposal, such a wording that we met at first reading, in my view, is unacceptable, because it is very widespread, it is not included in the law on Emergency and Exceptional Status, it is included in the law, which was originally meant to serve as an instrument for the Cabinet of Ministers to act outside the emergency situation. That is why this article is very dangerous, it is not necessary in this law, and I... My first proposal - I would call for this article to be excluded from the law at all, because, once again, the Cabinet of Ministers has every right without this delegation, without this mandate, to notify the competent authorities, in an emergency, of the need to limit certain rights for certain persons for a certain period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U432	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U433	Yes, colleagues, on behalf of the Commission... First of all, I wanted to ask if you can hear me right? WhatsApp's complaint to me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U434	You can hear it right now, but from time to time, you have problems. I recommend to my fellow Members that, if there are problems, you adjust the volume on the computer, which can be turned more.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U435	Yeah, okay, thank you. I would like to stop here a little more directly on behalf of the Commission as rapporteur for the draft law. Such a norm was, in fact, already included in the emergency orders both in spring and now, but I understand that some Members only noticed it now in this draft law, and in the Commission we also asked the Ministry for Foreign Affairs for further clarification. In view of the fact that very many Members had sent full e-mails directly about this provision in order not to accept it, I would like to make a special note and devote a couple of minutes to justify this provision, its necessity and how all this works for these human rights. This is very important, and that is why I would like the audience (and if someone is watching live) to take this. I hope that it is precisely the persons who wrote e-mails who asked them not to accept such a rule that they will hear an explanation. The Commission will therefore support the following rule in the next proposal: “If necessary for the effective implementation of the measures to prevent the spread or spread of Covid–19 infection during the exceptional situation announced by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers shall notify international organisations of its departure from certain international human rights obligations in accordance with the procedures laid down in the international agreements binding on Latvia.” Such a provision is necessary in order to be able to effectively implement the measures objectively necessary to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and to protect public health. Some of these measures restrict human rights, such as the right to freedom of association, as far as the presence is concerned. Most human rights are not absolute. It is also subject to restrictions in the "normal" situation, such as a specific measure prohibited for safety reasons. In other words, it may not be in the situation of the community, but during the Covid-19 pandemic, the country may need to introduce radical measures that limit human rights in more than ordinary situations. Therefore, in international human rights treaties, including the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the authors of these treaties have already provided for the possibility for States to temporarily derogate from certain obligations imposed by these treaties in exceptional circumstances, if necessary to protect public health, for example. The derogation shows that the country is aware of - there is a truly dangerous situation, there is a real threat to society and the measures that are objectively necessary to prevent these threats are more restrictive of human rights than have already been allowed by the relevant international treaties for everyday situations. These restrictions should always be interpreted strictly in everyday situations. And a narrow interpretation certainly does not allow, for example, to ban absolutely all measures on the ground, as was the case in spring. In other words, granting a derogation during an emergency, if the nature of the measures introduced so requires, is a kind of proof to the law, in the sense that we are working within the framework of international treaties, namely very specific and even radical measures do not try to fit into the narrow daily limits. The order of events should be highlighted in particular. First of all, the state must identify a threat (risk to public health and human life) that must be eliminated, and the Cabinet decides on various measures to achieve this objective. These measures can restrict human rights, but the issue of possible derogations is only relevant if these restrictions are so substantial and so comprehensive that they are already outside the limits of the international human rights treaties. In other words, the derogation is only the consequence of the need for action to be taken to prevent threats. In addition, the derogation should very specifically specify which human rights are concerned and what aspect of the derogation is concerned. But even if a derogation is made, the European Court of Human Rights can still hear all complaints about possible violations of human rights. The European Court of Human Rights is also entitled to assess whether the derogation itself has been justified. So, colleagues, this is the explanation why there is a provision that has already been clarified in the next proposal. Therefore, I call on the commission to act in this situation, as it did, and not to support it. - Julia Stepanenko's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U436	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 23, for - 49, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U437	Thank you, colleagues. Let's go. Next - 10. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Clarifying exactly the part that... “If necessary for the effective implementation of Covid-19 measures to prevent the spread or spread of infection during the exceptional situation declared by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers shall, in accordance with the procedures laid down in international treaties binding on Latvia, notify international organisations of its departure from certain international human rights obligations.” This proposal, if a vote is required, is to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U438	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U439	I thank Mr Rancan for his clarification. No, I will not ask for a vote on this proposal. I thank the Commission for its understanding, but I would like to remind you once again that without this clarification, such a norm was, in my view, dangerous enough to leave it as it is, because of the various risks of interpretation. We all understand that during an emergency, and only during an emergency, and not during some pseudo-intermediate period, when the Cabinet of Ministers still has special powers to deal with the rights and freedoms of persons in various ways... It is only during an emergency that the Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, has the right to derogate from human rights and only in respect of certain areas, not to mention fundamental rights, of course. That's why I'm explaining it again. It seems to me that this norm was not required by law at all. This provision, if necessary for any reason, had to be made in another law. You like, colleagues, to point out that we are making proposals in the wrong law, then, in my view, this clarification had to be laid down in the law “On the Emergency and the Exceptional Situation” rather than in the law in which we give the Cabinet the power to act outside the emergency situation. In spring, the Cabinet of Ministers could declare its resignation without any norms of law... That is why, in order not to really create an absolutely unnecessary field of interpretation, such clarification was necessary, and I thank the members of the Commission for studying this issue, understanding the proposal and supporting it. Thank you. I did not ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U440	Thank you. So Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U441	Thank you, colleagues. Let's go. 11. - An offer from Members Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Ulda Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gundars Dauges, Viktors Valaiņš and Jānis Vacāns. The two previous proposals are very similar. It also provides for a version of the reporting to international organisations. This is not supported by the Commission because it supports the previous one.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U442	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U443	Yes, colleagues, we will not be asking for a vote on this proposal, given that 10 has already been supported and largely addressed by concerns which were also discussed in advance, clarifying the norm prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. I would just like to stress that there were two things in our proposal that were particularly highlighted. One is that this departure from human rights and international agreements is only possible for an emergency. This is also determined by the 10th proposal, which has just been supported. The second is to reinforce their principle that a departure from human rights can only take place in accordance with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Article 15 thereof, if we speak even more precisely. That, in my opinion, would be even clearer regulation. But, as I said, we are not in favour of the vote, because to a large extent what has already been voted in the past solves the main concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U444	I closed the debate. The Members therefore share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U445	Thank you, colleagues. 12. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. Article 6.1 shall be supplemented by a third paragraph: ‘The Centre for Disease Prevention and Control shall inform the municipalities of the Covid-19 infected persons and contact persons found in their territories.’ In the Commission, this proposal has not been supported, as it has already been clarified that those who need to know such information, such as the local police, and those who are obliged to control them - they already have that information. The proposal does not really tell us why it should be known to certain municipal council officials, such as the President, Members, or what was meant by it. This proposal is therefore not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U446	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U447	Good evening, dear colleagues! I am asking for three plus one minute, President.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U448	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U449	Thank you. Article 6 and Article 6.1 of the law in force are about supervision of persons subject to home quarantine or isolation, as well as about the system of monitoring information of such persons. Such a system exists. The Cabinet of Ministers shall determine what information and to what extent it is to be included in the system, the procedure for including and storing the information and to which access to the information included in the system shall be granted. However, it is not clear what the arrangements for exchanging information between institutions are. The representatives of the Latvian Municipal Union draw attention to the fact that information often reaches municipalities too late. The consequences of uncoordinated interactions are confirmed by a recent event in one of the regions. And specifically, on Sunday, a community was found to be the teacher of a preprimary education institution, but the local authorities only learned about it on Tuesday, so all persons who were in contact with that teacher on Monday - colleagues, children and their parents - were sent to quarantine, which could be avoided if the local authorities had operational access to such information. In order to strengthen the amount of data to be transferred and to determine how long the Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior, which is the controller of the personal monitoring information system, could provide the relevant information, it is necessary to develop interinstitutional procedures for the exchange of information between Covid-19. The aim of such arrangements would be to contribute to the continuity of activities of state and municipal bodies. It is clear that such information contains sensitive data of individuals, but others' rights, public safety and health motivate them to find legal grounds for such a procedure. My proposal contains a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to supplement the maintenance of the personal monitoring information system already established by law with two measures formulated as two parts of the proposal. In particular, the first is to develop an interinstitutional procedure for the exchange of information between the Covid-19 institutions. The second is to ask the Disease Prevention and Control Centre to inform municipalities about the infected persons and contact persons found in their territories. I call for my proposal to be supported, but on the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 99 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, please vote for each part of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U450	Thank you. So Mr. Pimenova is asking for a vote on every part of the proposal, namely... Could you divide and read separately? The first subparagraph would be to add the second paragraph of Article 6.1 with the words "developing the interinstitutional procedure for the exchange of information by the Covid-19". The second part would then be to supplement Article 6.1 of the law with the third part as follows: “The Disease Prevention and Control Centre shall inform municipalities of the Covid-19 infected persons and contact persons found in their territories.” Have I understood the substance of the proposal correctly?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U451	That's right.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U452	Can be divided into two parts. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, so there is a proposal to vote on this 12th proposal, divided into parts. As Mr Pimenova confirmed this, we must vote in favour of the proposal made by Mr Pimenova to divide the 12th proposal into two parts. Please call me! We will vote in favour of dividing the 12th motion tabled by Mr Pimenov in two parts and voting in favour of each part separately! Please, let's vote! About - 33, against - 47, refraining - 2. This proposal is therefore not supported. And the 12th proposal will be examined together in the version in which it is presented and presented in the table. On behalf of the Commission, is there anything to add to proposal 12?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U453	No, thank you, fellow Members, nothing can be added to proposal 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U454	Please change the tab to be... Thank you. So let's vote in favour of 12. - Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 54, abstaining - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U455	13. - An offer from Members Dana Reizniece–Ozola, Ulda Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gundars Dauges, Viktors Valaiņš and Jānis Vacāns. The sixth paragraph of Article 8 of the Act is intended to read as follows: ‘The Authority shall issue guidance on the application of the legislation laying down the compulsory aid, the aid for wage subsidies and the rules on the aid to be granted to the undertaking affected by the communicable crisis to compensate for the fall in the flow of funds’. This proposal was not supported by the Commission with an explanation from the authorities that the support could come and come faster than this type of reference, which also increases the bureaucratic burden. It would take a much longer time to prepare such a guide than to receive the aid itself. This proposal was therefore not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U456	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U457	Colleagues! Those who may follow the Saeima sitting too! The Government has proposed a proposal in the draft law, emphasising in particular that the institution, in this case based on the State Revenue Service, does not issue guidance on the application of the regulatory enactments which (I will not continue to be precise) determine the conditions of support. In turn, we believe that the State Revenue Service or the institution should issue such information. If someone talks about that, yes, in general terms, it provides that sometimes the State Revenue Service could reply and issue their reference within months, this means that it would be after the aid had already been received or rejected. Then, too, it is quite simple to resolve it. The internal rules of procedure of the State Revenue Service may even determine the order of priority for issuing such references, see them and issue them before providing explanations to economic operators other than as urgent. If we talk about how much time it takes, put on the opposite weight in the cup, how much time it takes for both entrepreneurs and the State Revenue Service itself to write letters afterwards and to call for undue state aid. Spring is not so long ago, a few months ago, we remember there were cases, and not only was the State Revenue Service unduly paid aid in the form of a cut-off allowance and then forced... and, I accept, the fight against entrepreneurs is still continuing to drive them into some of the euro - even in some cases, indeed some of the euro! - and their repayment to the State budget. If entrepreneurs had more clarity about the terms of the support programmes, if they understood them in good time, whether they qualified them or not, then there would be no such case. And it's clear that the reference... Also, companies... They will not use their own or the State Revenue Service simply in the same way, after the Christmas letters, when writing to the State Revenue Service. They only require a reference if the norm adopted is not clear and needs to be interpreted so that they understand its application and do not fall into the trap of mice. I think it is only logical to provide such information; it is ultimately not increasing for everyone, but reducing the administrative burden. Otherwise, the State Revenue Service is already looking like a crayfish catcher who folds crayons with a delicious shrimp and then waits for the businessman to fall into it as such. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U458	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U459	On behalf of the Commission, I would just add that there was a situation in spring, which the State Revenue Service itself said they were overloaded in this emergency situation with a request for information, namely that there is an overload. This is one of the reasons why such a special norm should not be avoided, because such information may still be required under Administrative Procedure Law. So thank you, colleagues. I call for a vote as a commission, namely not to support this proposal in the event of a vote being requested.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U460	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal tabled by Reiznieces-Ozola, Plant, Bergmanis, Koite, Valaiņa and Vacana! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported. Colleagues! Time to break. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U461	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall resume the examination of the agenda of the second remote emergency session on 17 December following a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicableity Management”. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U462	Yes, colleagues! We shall proceed with the examination of the proposals. Next - 14. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative correction. And with words... i.e., the word (not to be heard.) ... The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U463	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U464	Next - 15. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Tapis, listening to the Latvian Municipal Union about the entry into force of new qualification requirements on education for orphan courts on 1 January 2021, and they asked to change this deadline for a further half a year in order to be able to ensure compliance with these requirements. In view of the emergency situation, the Commission heard and supported such a solution and set up its own proposal, which is why this proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U465	Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U466	Good evening, colleagues, again! I would like to draw attention to the fact that this provision on the change in the requirements for the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of orphan courts was approved in 2015. Five years, I think, was a very long time for all those who want to meet this requirement, because in order to achieve the new level of education required in the past, it is necessary, at a maximum, two years. The transitional period was five years. I think this is, I might say, a matter that has been painful, maybe within five years, but it really has nothing to do with the community infection at the moment. All municipalities knew this, counted it, and all the necessary actions have been taken. So, I think, there is no reason to support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U467	I closed the debate. Mr. Rancan, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U468	On behalf of the Commission, I would just add that, yes, such an argument also stated that it was quite a long time. However, when listening to representatives of the Latvian Municipal Union, we concluded that this half-year will not really change anything, but will allow us to work more effectively for these orphan's courts, and needlessly... There will be no need to rotate and seek help from others. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported and for a vote in favour if a vote is required.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U469	We have to vote. Mrs Indricksones asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - the proposal presented by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! For - 57, for - 5, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U470	Thank you, colleagues. Next - 16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative correction with numbering change. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U471	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U472	Next - 17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It is envisaged that the draft law should be supplemented by a provision providing remuneration for legal aid providers from the administration of legal aid amounting to EUR 75 and an appropriate rate of EUR 5 if assistance is provided to persons in prison. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U474	Go on. 18. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Mieziņš that it is necessary to provide official statistics at this time as well... Central statistical administration. The authorities are obliged to provide the Central Statistical Office with the relevant information. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U475	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U476	Next - 19. - the proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis. Article 25 provides for the replacement of the words ‘National Defence Military Objects and Procurement Centre’ by ‘National Defence Logistics and Procurement Centre’. The proposal also provides for: “The medical institutions registered in the Register of Medical Institutions shall have the right to purchase, as a customer, personal protective equipment and medical devices from or through the central purchasing body established by the Cabinet of Ministers for the purposes of limiting the spread of Covid-19 infection, provided that the goods concerned are included in the groups of goods and services established by the Cabinet of Ministers.” The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U477	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U478	Go on. 20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. An earlier version of the alcohol transferred to the National Supply Agency for destruction, which is confiscated and may be passed on to the authorities for the manufacture of disinfectants for public purposes. It is simply specified, but in the end it proved necessary to clarify it further. Consequently, this proposal has been supported and incorporated in the next one - 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U479	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U480	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's about this... Details of the alcohol seized and how it is to be transferred to other bodies for the performance of their functions and for the manufacture of disinfectants, as appropriate. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U481	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U482	Go on. 22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. To be expressed in separate language(s)... improved drafting on issues related to the registration of foreign nationals’ residence documents. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U483	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U484	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. The sixth paragraph of Article 32 provides for the exclusion of the words ‘not to register a residence permit’, i.e. editorial corrections supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U485	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U486	Next - 24. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Provision shall be made for the expression of Article 33 in the relevant version: ‘A foreigner who, while staying in the Republic of Latvia, has expired the period of validity of the travel document after 12 March 2020, applying for a re-residence permit or when registering a residence permit, shall present the said travel document. In such a case, the foreigner shall be granted a re-residence permit or the residence permit shall be registered until 30 June 2021.’ Listening to the Ministry of the Interior... and the need for this provision, the proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U487	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U488	Next - 25. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. In point 2 of the fourth paragraph of Article 38, the words ‘more than 24 hours’ shall be replaced by ‘more than 24 hours’. This is the case for officials employed in prison administration. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U489	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U490	Go on. 26. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reinis Znotiņš. This concerns accreditation of general education institutions, vocational training institutions and other examination centres, those which expire on 31 August 2021. The period of accreditation shall be extended until 31 May 2022 on the basis of a reasoned application submitted to the State Service for Quality of Education of the Educational Institution. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U491	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U492	27. - also the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Reinis Znotiņš. Associated with the time limits for assessing professional activities of heads of educational institutions. If it is to be done by 31 August 2021, this period shall be extended until 31 May 2022 on the basis of an application submitted to the State Service for Quality of Education by the Head of the Education Institution. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U493	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U494	28. - the proposal from Minister for Welfare Ramon Petravič. Provision is made to supplement the draft law with an article - to express the title of Chapter VI of the law as follows: "Chapter VI. Conditions for providing social and health services and social assistance. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U495	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U496	Go on. 29. - also the proposal of welfare minister Ramona Petraviča. Article 47 is worded as follows: ‘If a social service provider is able to ensure compliance with epidemiological safety measures, the placement of new customers in social services institutions providing social services with accommodation shall be permitted.’ The second part of this article is also longer. I won't read everything in this... The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U497	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U498	30. - also the proposal of welfare minister Ramona Petraviča. It is planned to supplement the draft law with Article 49.1: “During an emergency, the municipality may also grant social services and social assistance to the target group, which does not comply with the provisions of Article 3 of the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance, if the basic needs of the person cannot be provided in other way.” This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U499	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U500	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The second paragraph of Section 50 and the second paragraph of Section 51 of the Law provide for the exclusion. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U501	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U502	32. - Member Jur Rancan's proposal. Provision is made for the exclusion of Articles 18 and 19 of the draft law, which provided for an administrative penalty to be imposed on an economic operator if this has been allowed... if it has failed to comply with its obligation not to allow persons without masks and nasal covers. As is foreseen for the infringement of the epidemiological safety rules... The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U503	Mr Schnore has requested a vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - Member Jur Rancan's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 60, for - 8, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U504	Thank you, colleagues. Next - 33. - the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko, who also provided for the exclusion of Rule 18. The Commission is also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U505	This proposal cannot be put to the vote because we have just supported proposal 32, but it is possible to debate it. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U506	Dear colleagues, Thank you to Mr Rancan for submitting this proposal, thank you to my colleagues for their support. I have also submitted the same thing and I am really glad that our views are in line in this case. What I would like to point out is: I think what was laid down in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which were based on this law, namely the obligation for economic operators to regulate... how to tell you better, to keep track of their customers pulling masks and observing the distance and other epidemiological requirements - these obligations were imposed on economic operators at a time when this law was functioning... when this law was not supposed to work. I will try to explain to you even more precisely. When an emergency occurred, this law had to be rested by nature, so to speak, because what we see in the aim of this law... Thus, the purpose of this law was to sort things out, to sort things out when the emergency situation ended. Thus, the time frame for that law was that in no case does the law have to act in an emergency, it is not necessary. However, the government, the Cabinet of Ministers, in my view, violated its powers and, on the basis of this law, in spite of the fact that an emergency situation had already been announced, adopted regulations imposing an additional obligation on economic operators to follow the way in which compliance with these requirements was carried out. Now we see that appropriate corrections are made to this law, because probably someone on Brīvības Street remembered and saw that it is not really right. These amendments concern the purpose of the law. It is now being changed - so it must work not only outside the emergency but also at any other time, also during the emergency. I understand, therefore, that the rules and obligations that were issued on the basis of the law that should not operate at that time are not actually correct. What I also... I asked you to unite the times... explaining.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U507	Debate time combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U508	Thank you. What I also mention in the Commission in defence of this proposal is in fact the imposition on economic operators of obligations that are not enforceable on economic operators because, above all, security staff are not subject to such obligations under the Security Act. And the security officer does not have the following qualification - to follow the epidemiological safety rules, to observe... and call to follow others, i.e. how it is carried properly there or what is the distance. That's one. Second. Operators imposing these additional obligations that are actually... It is a state function - to follow those rules - it is a police function. By imposing an obligation on economic operators to do so, the government was, in substance, obliged to provide for compensatory mechanisms, but no such mechanisms were provided for. It was simply asked to follow these rules. And it was promised that we would not punish you. We're not going to punish you -- well, it's just like a law-recorded to be. This logic really means that we have to foresee that we also want to take responsibility from government members for the creation of chaos, but we will not punish them. Thank you, colleagues, for understanding this situation, and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U509	I closed the debate. As I said, this proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U510	Yes, thank you, colleagues. So next one, 34. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. It is planned to supplement the transitional provisions again by the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to decide on support measures for persons subject to restrictions and prohibitions adopted on the basis of this Law. The same applies to restrictions and prohibitions which entered into force before the amendment of this law. There is no support in the Commission. We have already talked about this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U511	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U512	Colleagues! I would very much like you to really keep in mind, when you go on Christmas holidays, those teachers of interest that you left without a means of subsistence on 14 October. This includes, if you do not support this proposal, because the proposal also talks about the fact that the restrictions adopted on the basis of this law must be compensated not only from the entry into force of the amendments, i.e. the entry into force of this law, but also at the time when the obligation to compensate for these prohibitions was not yet foreseen. We're talking again... We recall once again the ban on 14 October on teachers of interest education. And for those who may... Mr. Znotiņš, who tried to tell us that all the lessons can be transferred to the e-environment and presented on-site with various lessons... We remembered another very interesting sport, which probably had slipped by Znotiņš. It's swimming training. Well, then, swimming training, Mr. Znotiņš, could probably not be implemented remotely, just like the various forms of fighting sports. Well, very, very difficult. I really regret that I received criticisms that this provision does not fit into this law, that it must be in the previous law. However, as we know, in the previous law, you did not support the obligation to compensate for the damage caused to people before the emergency took effect, so, in my view, we can make provision in this law that the prohibitions which, on the basis of this law, have caused damage and damage must also be compensated accordingly. I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U513	I closed the debate. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! About - 28, against - 45, abstaining - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U514	Yeah, thank your colleagues. Next - 35. - also the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Also linked to the aid measures. It stipulated that within three working days of the entry into force of the law, the Cabinet of Ministers shall adopt a decision on support measures for persons whose activities have been affected by amendments to the Cabinet Regulations of 9 June 2020 No. 360 ‘Eliminal safety measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection’. In the Commission, this proposal is not supported because, as I said earlier, we have spoken: this law concerns the management of Covid-19 infection, the work of the authorities. On the other hand, the aid is the law on Covid-19 in the law on the management of the spread of infection, i.e. it is another law, therefore this proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U515	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U516	Yes, colleagues, we are repeating this situation with fuel once today: please remember the ban of 14 October, which was provided for in the amendments of 13 October, for teachers of interest education. I very much hope that once and for all, well, we will achieve this compensation in the government, at least perhaps at the level of the Cabinet. Please, honourable colleagues, don't hope that if we... Well, don't hope that in time this abuse will be forgotten, time will equal things and October 14 is far enough for someone else to remember it. No, we'll remember it for a long time, we'll remind it until you pay off the losses. We, Karina Sprūde and I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U517	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Mr. Rancan?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U518	Thank you. Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U519	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! For - 25, for - 46, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U520	Thank you, colleagues, let's go. 36. - also the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. It is planned to supplement the transitional provisions with a new paragraph: “To establish that the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers which were issued on the basis of this Law during an emergency declared by the Cabinet of Ministers shall be null and void.” In the Commission, this proposal, in discussions with the institutions, is not supported, because in practice there is a great deal to go... The basis for all these measures, namely this proposal, is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U521	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U522	Colleagues! I will remind you once again of this discrepancy, which I think has arisen... By lifting the emergency by 9 November on the basis of this law, the Cabinet of Ministers could not issue any restrictive measures, any rules, because this law did not actually have to function. That law... This law is intended to deal with the situation after the end of the emergency. That's how you voted. This was the case at the moment when the Cabinet of Ministers issued the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers “Epidemic Security Measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection”. Regulation 360. There is no problem with the Cabinet of Ministers issuing these regulations repeatedly, already on the basis of the current law, which states that the aim of the law is completely different. Otherwise it really happens that by issuing these norms on the basis of the law with which it was not intended, you have created a situation in fact that the rules that have been issued on the basis of this law are not really valued according to the situation. I call on you to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U523	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U524	On behalf of the Commission, I would just add that it would not be reasonable to repeal one rule at the moment and at this time of emergency, when I think the government has enough to do what... I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected, as did the Commission, in the event that a vote is required.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U525	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! For - 18, for - 54, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U526	Thank you, colleagues. Next - 37. - also the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Provision shall be made for supplementing the transitional provisions by a new Article: “The decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the emergency situation or amendments to such emergency situation shall be considered by the Saeima within 48 hours of the receipt of the relevant decision or amendments by the Saeima at the Saeima Bureau.” In the Commission, this proposal was rejected precisely for the reason that the proposal concerns a completely different law, which is the law on emergency and exceptional situations. Moreover, as far as the substance is concerned, these 48 hours, which are supposedly fixed and limited, would not really be correct and adequate, because we saw what happened to us in a situation where the Saeima did not have an objective opportunity to re-examine... The budget had to be looked at and there were other priorities, and there was no room for such an urgent approach to this issue. I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected if a vote is required.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U527	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U528	Dear colleagues, We were all witnesses of how much misunderstanding and indignation was caused by the Cabinet of Ministers' order to declare an emergency situation with regard to various restrictions on goods. And not really a secret - also the opposition began to collect votes... began to collect signatures to declare an extraordinary Saeima sitting to call for the rejection of this illogical decision (which, as we know, was corrected after some time), as this decision of the Cabinet of Ministers also included cases such as the ban on e-thalone trade, the ban on the sale of the press and also the ban on the sale of motor vehicles, which raised really various issues for both drivers and people who are accustomed to obtain information from the printed press and who are in need of e-thalone because of travel. All this situation has, in principle, highlighted the fact that the Saeima should take a closer look at the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers. As we know, the Cabinet of Ministers... In fact, perhaps ministers do not decide on this themselves, maybe there is some comma working group, maybe there are epidemiologists. It is difficult to say who is currently responsible for these illogical decisions. We asked Mr Kariņš in writing, and there is no name in these answers, which was specifically the hero who designed, for example, to ban the sale of goods or press publications. We did not know that, unfortunately. But that is not important; it is important that such people are still in government, such people are still precepts over our daily agenda, let us say. At the moment, the Saeima does not have any opportunity to react quickly to various, I am sorry, the folly that comes to us from the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why I think... and I will continue on this subject. This is the first attempt to initiate a debate in this law. I believe that this law also fits into this law, because specifically this law talks about the situation of the community. Consequently, I do not really decide on other emergencies. We had swine fever in the past and did not need approval from the Saeima. In this case, however, the parliamentary reconfirmation of what comes from the government in this chaotic way is very, very necessary... and is urgently needed. We still stand in line with a whole series of emergency orders, which we cannot reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U529	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U530	Thank you. That question is very important, even vitally important. You will imagine what the gap is between the adoption of the draft law in the Cabinet of Ministers and the submission to the Saeima, and the consideration of the draft law by the Saeima in a slow spirit, despite the fact that, if we are talking specifically about restrictions, it has already entered into force since the adoption. Thus, the Saeima procedure turns into a very formal procedure. That is the proposal that has been formulated, perhaps not completely thought out, but it is a substance for reflection for all of us, because the order in which we act in an emergency is infertile to me. Well, this was about the fact that the authors of the various restrictions are not known. I can't understand either, let's say, an idiot thought that restricting the marketing of flowers on holiday would in some way help to combat the community's infection. I don't understand that. I feel that such a proposal must definitely know the authors. But in this case we already have not precedents, but practice. When the government prepares and approves the positions of the European Union, operational meetings of the European Affairs Commission shall also be held there, in which either it supports or does not support the position drawn up or complements, amends or otherwise acts, but affects this process. The same can be done in emergency situations. There is a need for serious thought, and this should be decided. But in this case, I would call for support for Mrs Stepanenko's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U531	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U532	Good evening, society! Good evening, colleagues! We will have examined the draft law on Covid-19 in the law on the management of the spread of infection without delay. I must say very clearly to you that what the government and Parliament have done with all these restrictions and everything that has happened is, in fact, a criminal act. Instead of supporting people, and instead of creating the chaos that exists in cities today (not only in Riga, but also all over Latvia), which in reality increases the risk of infection and disease for people, instead of making longer working hours until the festival... day... that could work for all shops and reduce crowding in public transport... Let us not talk about support, let us not talk about teachers, let us not talk about anything else. I think that this should be recorded in the protocol that, then, at the beginning of next year, we should record what the situation will be. If the situation continues to escalate, then it is absolutely clear that this criminal activity... And I am not afraid to say that, because this action that is currently taking place is beyond any criticism, beyond any common sense. I will not talk about any restrictions that may or may not be bought. I'm not going to talk about people laughing or anything else. All right, laugh, and peace, but the consequences of this incompetentness of madness, the inability of madness to study things in essence, are dramatic. And they'll be dramatic. Today we are all day dealing with issues that will actually be reflected once again, with a minus sign both in people's body and in people's health. I'm ashamed of 13. Saeima, for people in this Saeima. They think that there are some superpowers and supersmarts, but that is not true. Look at the society... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You really think now you've been... Two more or so... And then there... I don't know what's going on there, stolen or just to have some ambition in personal... there those positions and business cards, and everything else... But what do you do to the people of Latvia? What are you doing to the Latvian state? I want to unite the times. I'm just the last minute before Christmas in this parliamentary sitting, I want to make another one.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U533	Time merged.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U534	The Internet is full today... photos with rebunked trolleybuses, buses, with rebunked supermarkets before the festival... that people do not know what they will be allowed to, what they will not be able to buy, and in such a spirit. All right, God buys it, but all those decisions... Forgot to write about teachers, then there's something else, this one... You're not ashamed of yourself, do you? Then you're going to boast... What are you going to do about? That's what? For an empty, extinct Latvia? About the “failure story”? The poorest... almost... country in Europe, one of. We won't reach Estonia in our life anymore, neither will Lithuania. For your sake, for your sake! - Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U535	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U536	Colleagues, I would not agree with the argument that we do not have the opportunity to convene meetings quickly and do not have the opportunity to free up even a bit of time to discuss emergency orders. That's not what it is! If we were to decide, we would. As we can see, the Bureau is changing the agenda very quickly, bringing together the sittings one after the other and putting it into a different order, let us say, sequence. That is why, also during the adoption of the budget, we were able to decide just as well on emergency decisions. There would be no problem here. The e-Samima, for which you are all very happy and which has received the prize, also allows us, I think, to convene a sitting in a very short time. All Commission meetings and Bureau meetings shall also be held at a distance. There would be no problem with this. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U537	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U538	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission, except that if such a proposal is presented in the law on Emergency and Exceptional Situations, of course we can discuss it. Thank you, colleagues. Next proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U539	We have to vote. Member Papale has requested a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! For - 22, for - 52, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U540	Thank you, colleagues. Next and last draft of this law - 38. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. It is planned to supplement the draft law with a new article: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall ensure the provision of oral and nasal covers to teachers and pupils free of charge, covering expenses from the state budget funds.” In the Commission, having listened to the institutions, the ministries, it was concluded that this proposal is in principle free of legal burden, as already the Cabinet of Ministers has established rules and these masks will be issued to both teachers and learners free of charge. The Commission was therefore not in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U541	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U542	Good evening! Yeah, at the end of the law review - for the purchase of masks again. Let me explain why. Because there are both legal burdens on the purchase of masks. Then from the beginning. In conditions of spread of infection, wearing the mouth and nose lids becomes an individual safety guarantee for the teacher... on social security conditionally. Therefore, the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union calls for the purchase of facial masks for teachers. As the Parliamentary Secretary of the Prime Minister told us at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax), the purchase of facial covers for teachers and pupils is ensured, while the representative of the State Fire and Rescue Service management has announced to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention that the Ministry of Education and Science has collected the needs of all municipalities and other founders both for teachers and pupils and in compliance with the recently amended regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. 380 is intended to buy almost three million hygienic facial masks. So the request looks fulfilled. However, it is important that the state budget is clearly strengthened by the law as the source of funding for the purchase of masks, so that there is no temptation to entrust this funding to municipalities in the future. I therefore propose that the transitional provisions be supplemented by a new paragraph, which states: "The Cabinet of Ministers shall ensure that the oral and nasal covers are provided free of charge to teachers and pupils, covering expenditure from the state budget." I therefore did not withdraw my proposal, nutrition and call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U543	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U544	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U545	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! There's no one for - 30, against - 55, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U546	Thank you, colleagues. Consequently, all proposals in this draft law have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law "Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of infectious spread" at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U547	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! For -69, for -2 and for -15. The law is passed. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On the change of the committee responsible to the draft law “Amendments to the law “On holidays, memories and famous days””. The draft decision submitted by the Education, Culture and Science Commission provides that the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days” is the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Please call me! We will vote for the change of the commission responsible for draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days””! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. The next item is the treatment of parliamentary requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Valija Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Regina Ločmeles, Edgars Kucina, Vitalis Orlovs and Ivana Klementyev request the Minister for Economics Janis Vitenbergs to provide information on the report on the compliance of subsidised power plants with State aid conditions provided for by the Law on the Electricity Market. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U548	Good evening, colleagues! The Panel examined the request made by Members of the Saeima Ivara Zariņa, Janis Krišāna, Valija Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Regina Ločmeles, Edgara Kucina, Vitalija Orlova and Ivana Klementjeva to the Minister for Economic Affairs Janis Vitenbergs ‘On avoidance of the Minister of Economics in providing information on the compliance of the operation of subsidised power plants with the State aid conditions’ (No. 40/P13) and, by voting in favour, ten against and one abstention, admitted that the request of Members should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U549	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U550	Good evening, colleagues! This demand is one very important instrument to help to cross the OIC. If it really were the political will to deal with a huge number of frauds for many, many millions of euros, which are unfortunately still largely being continued. It would normally take 15 minutes for this request, 15 minutes for the debate, in which I could give it a detailed account, but you Members of the Coalition probably have reduced the time of the debate in order to hide the opportunity for the public to know how they are being implemented and how they could be detected. And cut very well - to three minutes in the hope that nothing can be said in these three minutes. I understand very well my colleagues from the New Conservative Party, who are forced to vote in favour of these requests every time, because it is not what they have promised their constituents to fight this OIC area, to soot to fight for the rule of law. And every time these requests, which showed how this scene is continued, how it is covered, how it is implemented very often in an illegal way, it is the new conservative party that gives decisive votes, so that these requests are not viewed further here in the Saeima, and so that society does not know the truth... what is actually happening. And actually happens, that's what. There is simply a political cartel that has divided its interests. And friendlyly, so that everyone can implement their ideas: what and in what area, which will have any specific purchases to which this OIC afērt. In order not to interfere with each other, they support each other, forced to cover them. And that's what's happening with these requests, although the claims show that the facts prove that there is really afer happening, it's happening, the afer continues to be covered. Those political parties who, with foam on their lips, promised to fight this afērce for the elections, are taking part in covering it. And I understand that you are ashamed, and every time you have to vote, you may still have accusations of conscience in doing so. That is why you have reduced the time for the debate this time, so that we cannot have a meaningful debate on this request. But I can delight those who hope that this aphoresis will be crossed by their belly. We have prepared the next steps, they will be very decisive, they will be shocking for all OIC aferists, and this moment is approaching. You'll see this soon. I call for support for the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U551	I closed the debate. Do you want to add something else on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U552	On behalf of the Commission, I would remind you that Members' request must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U553	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Valija Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Regina Ločmeles, Edgars Kucina, Vitalija Orlova and Ivana Klementyev's request to the Minister for Economics Janis Vitenbergs about the avoidance of the Minister of Economics regarding the information contained in the report on the compliance of subsidised power plants with State aid conditions submitted to the Saeima under the Law on the Electricity Market! Please vote mode! No. - 33, no. - 56, no. The request is rejected. The next item is the Bureau reports. On closing and opening the session of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This draft decision of the Saeima on the closure of the Saeima's autumn 2020 session and the opening of the 2021 winter session provides for the closure of the Saeima's autumn session on 23 December 2020 and the opening of the winter session on 7 January 2021. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima's autumn 2020 session and the opening of the 2021 winter session! Please vote mode! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next item is "Review of communications". On administrative punishment of Members of the Saeima. Communication on administratively punished Members for the period from 14 April 2020 to 2 September 2020. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U554	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U555	Yes, Mr Orlov, we hear and see you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U556	That's great. On the basis of point 5 of the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications shall provide information on administratively punished Members in accordance with the data in the Penalty Register between 14 April and 2 September this year. During the specified period of time, the following are called under administrative responsibility: Jānis Butāns. A decision was taken in the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau regarding the violation committed on 10 July of this year following Article 166.30 of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (on the violation of the restrictions on commercial activities, the function of a state official, representation, income acquisition or restrictions imposed on the treatment of state or municipal property, as well as on the performance of functions of a state official in a situation of conflict of interest). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 14 August 2020. Jānis Dūklavs. A decision on the violation committed on 5 June of this year following the seventh paragraph of Section 149.8 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (on exceeding the permitted speed from 21 kilometres per hour to 30 kilometres per hour with mopeds, motorcycles, tricycles, quadricycles, passenger cars, trucks with a gross mass not exceeding 7,5 tonnes) was adopted in the Order Police Department of the State Police’s Vidzeme Region Administration Valka Region. A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 15 June this year. Ilmārs Dūritis. A decision was taken in the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau regarding the violation committed on 7 July of this year in accordance with Article 166.28 of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (for the failure to complete an unauthorised position, a company contract or authorisation within the time limit set by law). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 17 September this year. Aivars Gaidan. A decision on the violation committed on 11 April of this year in accordance with Section 149.8 of the Code of Administrative Offences of Latvia (on exceeding the permitted speed from 21 kilometres per hour to 30 kilometres per hour with mopeds, motorcycles, tricycles, quadricycles, passenger cars, trucks with a gross mass not exceeding 7,5 tonnes) was taken in the Patrol Service of the Patrol Police Office of the State Police Administration of Vidzeme Region. A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 31 May this year. Aldis Gobzems. In the Patrol Police Division of the Order Police Office of the State Police Kurzeme Regional Administration, a decision was taken on the violation committed on 26 June of this year in accordance with the Binding Regulation of Jurmala City Council No. l Point 48 of ‘On entry of vehicles into a special regime zone in the administrative territory of the city of Jurmala’ (on entry into a special regime zone in Jurmala without a pass as required by this Regulation) shall be subject to a fine in the amount of ten fine units. The person called liable for administrative liability shall be determined and the administrative penalty applied, taking into account the special features of the administrative procedure established by the Administrative Liability Law in the individual categories of cases). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 28 July this year. Vladimir Nikonov. A decision on the violation committed on 31 May of this year in accordance with Section 194.1 of Section 1 of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (on violation of the regime of the state border band, border band, border or border crossing point) has been adopted in the section of the National Border Guard’s Administration of Ludza. Suitable warning. The Decision entered into force on 3 July this year. Igor Pimenov. Two cases were decided by the Jurmala City Council police, i.e. July of this year and 2 July of this year. Violation according to Binding Regulation of Jurmala City Council No. 1 Article 48 on the entry of vehicles into a special regime zone in the administrative territory of the city of Jurmala (on entry into a special regime zone in Jurmala without a pass as required by this Regulation shall be subject to a fine of 10 fine units). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 20 August this year. Sandy Riekstins. A decision on the violation committed on 7 April of this year in accordance with Section 149.8 fifteen of the Code of Administrative Offences of Latvia (on exceeding the permitted speed from 41 kilometres per hour to 50 kilometres per hour with mopeds, motorcycles, tricycles, quadricycles, passenger cars, trucks with a gross mass not exceeding 7,5 tonnes) has been adopted in the Limbaži Police Department of the State Police Administration of Vidzeme Region. A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 18 May this year. This is a very serious violation. The penalty shall be up to EUR 620 per infringement of this Article. Dear colleagues, follow speed rules, please. Anda Vita Steel. A decision was taken on the violation of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code on 22 April of this year in accordance with Section 149.23(2) of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (for violation of obligations imposed on pedestrians). Suitable warning. The Decision entered into force on 22 April this year. John Urbanovich. A decision on the violation committed on 17 March of this year in accordance with Section 149.8 of Section 149.8 of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (for the violation provided for in Paragraph 15 of this Section, if it was committed in a place marked by the road sign “The beginning of the settlement” or “the residential zone”). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 19 April this year. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-18-PT13-2172-U557	Thank you. The statement of the commission of mandates, ethics and applications has been made. We do not have to vote on this. Consequently, all items on the agenda for the second remote emergency session on 17 December 2020 have been dealt with. Further information on Members' questions received. Members Ivars Zariņš, Valerijus Agešins, Edgars Kucins, Vitalijs Orlovs and Arthur Rubiks have asked Members about additional information to be provided by the Ministry of Economics regarding monitoring and control of the operation of subsidised power plants submitted to the Saeima under the Electricity Market Act. This question will be referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Janis Wittenberg. Members Ivars Zarins, Valerijs Agešins, Jānis Tutins, Regina Ločmele and Edgars Kucins have also submitted a question about the Ministry of Health “preparing a detailed plan for vaccination against Covid-19 in Latvia”. And so this question submitted to the Ministry of Health will be referred to the Minister of Health, Ilze Viņķelis. Dear colleagues, I would also like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has convened the third remote emergency sitting on 17 December, 15 minutes after this sitting. I would also like to inform you that several parliamentary commissions have submitted requests and... draft laws and draft decisions prepared with a request to convene an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on these issues, on which the Saeima Bureau will adopt a decision on which you will be informed by means of a text message in the near future. Registration of participants. It has been a success. I'm closing the sitting. I remind you that the next sittings are tonight.
