ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, colleagues, take your seats in the Chamber. Colleagues, please, let's have our seats in the Chamber. The emergency session started on 16 March 2020. On the agenda - draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 13 March 2020 No. 104 ‘Amendment to the Cabinet Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 “Advertising the Emergency” and Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 14 March 2020 No. 105 “Amendments to the Cabinet Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 Promulgating an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U2	Good morning, colleagues! In its extraordinary session of 15 March 2020, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined amendments to the Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 promulgating an emergency. Those amendments introduce a number of additional restrictions in an emergency. For the sake of time-saving, I will only call it the most important. First. In addition to the above, parents in kindergartens must provide proof that they have no other option to care for their children. Second. The national centralized exam in foreign language moved to May. Third. All public events have been cancelled and banned, as well as limited unorganized gatherings of more than 50 people, as well as limited work of entertainment places until 23.00. Four. By 17 March 2020, all international passenger transport through airports, ports, buses and railways has been abolished. Of course, returning to Latvia citizens... ours are allowed, just as foreign nationals are allowed to leave their countries. After hearing the reports of the institutions, the Commission considered these additional restrictions to be justified, appropriate and necessary. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft decision submitted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U3	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U4	Highly respected Saeima Presidium! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! The Cabinet authorised me to provide short information on behalf of the government to the Saeima on the circumstances in which the government met on Saturday for an extraordinary meeting and decided on additional restrictions and prohibitions. On Saturday, we listened to the responsible authorities, experts and decided to take additional measures, both because the Covid-19 virus, or the coronavirus, is now spreading quite rapidly, and because we consider it necessary to do everything now to control the spread of this epidemic in Latvia. The epidemic is kept to a maximum level and then prevented. We believe that the proposed prohibitions and restrictions are effective and proportionate. Here, Mr Rancan has already mentioned several. First of all, I would like to say that the international transport policy and practice of passengers (air, sea, rail and land) is being discontinued from midnight on 17 March. This, however, gives the Minister of Transport the opportunity and the right to make an exception, if necessary with an appropriate appropriate order, and to allow chartering if necessary for the repatriation of our citizens. We also close the European Union's external border from midnight on 17 March. At the meeting of the government there was also a discussion about the closure of the border between Latvia and Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, but in view of both resources and necessary, let us say, the measures that the Lithuanian and Estonian sides are taking (in fact, this border will be closed from these countries), we did not consider it necessary to use the resources of our border guards and police, which will be necessary for other tasks. It has already been mentioned that centralised examinations are being carried out. All trainings are determined remotely. There is also a limited gathering of people. All public measures shall be repealed and prohibited. This order also states that, of course, additional resources are allocated to government institutions, on which the Cabinet of Ministers will decide according to the request for functions. For my part, given that I am a Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to say that... Given the closure of international passenger traffic - and we already see that many countries in Europe have closed both air traffic and their borders - we are working on a 24-hour regime to deal with the repatriation of our citizens. We are currently focusing on these three blocks. The first block is to make the most of the opportunities that people still have today to return from air, land, rail and sea transport. We are already aware of the range of people and working with airBaltic to organise repatriation flights. It has to be said that there is now a great deal of response and it is quite clear that there will be one. We are also working with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health to inform them that, after returning to all, no matter where they come from, they must remain quarantined for two weeks. From yesterday the units of the Ministry of Health carry out checks at Riga Airport for those who have symptoms. Of course, this work, too, will continue this information campaign. The second block will be working with people outside Europe. We work with tour operators, and solutions are also being sought here. I would like to say right away that it can take some time. It will take time not because someone here does not want to do anything, but because we see how decisions are changing, how policies are changing in the world, how various restrictions and prohibitions are applied, in essence, a few hours before they are implemented. That is the reality that we are facing. So I think that for the full return of all people in Latvia we will need plus minus 10 days. But this work is going on, people respond to the consular register, people respond to the phone numbers that we have indicated, and also to e-mails, but, of course, then we have to consider that it is also an information campaign here, so that all the advices and restrictions that we have laid down with this order of the Cabinet of Ministers last week and also amended, will be implemented. On behalf of the Government, I have a request to support the order of the Cabinet of Ministers and to accept it here in the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U5	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U6	Dear colleagues, I would like to say right away that it is really a pity that the Saeima cannot respond at the moment with its proposals and supplement the existing... Right now, the decision on the table... Order of the Cabinet of Ministers, because really the situation is changing. We would also really like to put our proposals in place. That is why I also call on Mr Rancana to convene a meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, in which we will continue to look at our proposals, which we will be complementing today... and with new proposals in view of this situation. I would like to emphasise: therefore, first of all, of course, we certainly need to think about the clarification of kindergarten work. We understand that we are now relying on parents' integrity, but it is clear that there will still be situations in which parents simply will not be allowed to sit at home with their children, regardless of whether their parents are working... Even if the parent does not work for these named services. That is why, of course, we need to think about it. Well, the next step is definitely to think about issuing sick leave to parents who... Which... kindergartens are closed. It's gonna be... I understand that this is a very heavy blow to the state budget, but we do not probably have another way out, because we need to reduce people's contacts now as much as possible. The same is true of support for employers. We call on all people not to come out of their homes. That means that people don't get... do not come to service providers, do not go to restaurants, do not go to barbers, do not go to shops. This right away, of course, is a huge blow to the economy, a huge blow to all the small and big... That is why we certainly need to think about it. We need people to have a sense of security, a sense of security for entrepreneurs, because something in this whole story is a little missing. We are ready to work with you; we are ready to work on the proposals and to tackle this situation together. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister very much for his operational work. We're all together... Yesterday, we shared information on the creation of the Polish corridor as far as we could. Thank you very much also to Polish Ambassador Monika Mihalishin for his Sunday day... Despite being a Sunday, she took up this situation very quickly. But I would like to draw your attention, honourable Minister, to the fact that there is a small problem at the moment (if it can be called a small problem) with the Polish border, in the sense that yesterday the information was able to provide all the information by 12.00. This morning, this information has already changed - so it is up to 8.30 a.m. - and there are very many people who have not managed to do it at the last moment, but there is a very big problem, a humanitarian problem - on the Polish border there are kilometres of people who cannot leave a car that is cold at night. Well, I realize that's a problem that's never happened, but let's keep in mind that we have, well, we have to keep in mind that it's not just something, I don't know, some cars. A huge line, as we are told, both with cops and with private vehicles that returned neither from ski resorts. Very many people come back from work. They have worked in Europe. They are now trying to return to Latvia with all their lives, and they are completely unaware whether they will be able to, while driving through Poland, to stop, to eat something or, I don't know, to take some warm clothes. This must also be considered in this situation. Of course, it is also important to think about family doctors because there are many family doctors, as we also report, who lightly tell people who have returned from the affected areas: “Living your life, now, calmly and do not change anything in your habits.” Very many family members, family members of people who have returned from the affected areas, are completely unaware of what to do, whether they can go to work, or how far they need to distance themselves... Please work with your family doctors so that they provide this information to those who turn to them qualitatively and in accordance with the latest instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U7	Thank you. Name to Member Raimond Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U8	Good morning! Could I ask you to combine the two times of the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U9	Do Members object to the unification of time? ( The box “No! ”) ) Time is combined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U10	Good morning, honourable Head of the sitting! Colleagues! There is indeed no emotion on this issue, but a professional conclusion that crises and emergencies in our country... We are not fully ready. I appreciate very much the efforts made by the officials of the responsible services and their employees, the time and risk that they all take on their high professional capacity, their limited capacity and, in the circumstances of the previously severely weakened Latvian health system, the public hope that we will manage this epidemic. I welcome the wish of responsible officials to learn from the experience of other countries to act as quickly as possible to limit the spread of the pandemic in Latvia. However. Communication with the public. The extremely low public confidence in the government and the Saeima is a critical indicator at a time when it is necessary to address the public and to invite them to engage in crisis mitigation and resolution. The ability of responsible officials to answer questions and explain the situation in a way that is understandable to the public is therefore all the more important in answering questions of interest. In this respect, I welcome the statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs (including social networks), which is constructive and provides the public with the information that is so needed in a clear, accurate and immediate manner. Obviously, the long-standing experience of Mr Rinkēvičs as State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence is a factor that allows for an objective assessment of the situation, at the same time in a structured and understandable way, to say what is important. The management of the crisis. In order for the civil protection or emergency management process to be of high quality, three things are needed: the objective of why the public needs such a plan; a clear and understandable plan for all parties involved; professional management and coordination. At this point in time, the necessary crisis management centre must be put in place, in which... a professional crisis management manager would be able to coordinate with all parties involved. If the government does not consider it necessary to organise a separate crisis management centre, then a fully established Prime Minister's team needs a national security adviser. Such advisors are the Prime Ministers of Lithuania and Estonia. In this situation... allow for more operational management of the situation already at the Baltic level, such as the same coordinated border crossing issue, or synchronise joint actions to overcome the crisis. On amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers orders. The accuracy of the crisis orders is extremely important because it concerns not only the precise application of their interpretation, but also, ultimately, the legal real consequences such as the right to reimbursement. More questions than answers arise from the text of amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers' orders. Several of the points listed are unclear, widely interpreted or refer to individual measures, although the definition should, by its very nature, be precise for a much broader range of measures. In addition, the text of the amendments contains a number of uncertainties which are to be corrected in accordance with the relevant regulatory framework. Examples include: Clarifying even point 4.5 on public measures as defined by the Law on the Safety of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events. From the second paragraph of point 4.5, it is not clear whether that first sentence applies to private measures... Moreover, it is not understandable to what extent the restrictions are imposed - mentioned alone - to limit them. Point 4.13 Set extra hours of work... Medical practitioners are regulated by the Law on Medicine, while others have the Law on Labour. Point 4.14 on the right not to apply the Public Procurement Law is too general and precise. What will be the control of the requirement referred to in point 4.24 for companies to ensure first... I would like, like Mrs Stepanenko... In addition, I would like to call on the Cabinet of Ministers to consider moving the deadline for the submission of annual reports to associations and foundations, because, as we know, this is 31 March, but it is necessary to hold the general meetings of members until that time. Ensure that the information phones are available in 24/7 mode instead of setting the working time as we saw in the media, from nine to five. A single call centre is needed to channel calls to the relevant services in order to facilitate some currently available, and to organise the publication of all official information from different sectors in one place, so that there is not a large number of information, but it is fragmented and opaque. I call for much greater involvement of the municipalities closest to the population in overcoming the crisis. I invite the Ministry of Health, in particular the Minister of Health, Mrs. Viņķele as responsible for managing infectious disease epidemics, to continue to do not give up and to be brave to make unpopular decisions, if they are aimed at protecting the safety, health and life of Latvian citizens. I invite you to support the draft decision of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U11	Thank you. Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U12	Hello! Hello, dear colleagues! Mr. Bergmanis has just mentioned the municipalities. That is also why I wanted to speak today. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that the resources of municipalities and municipalities are not currently sufficiently involved to limit and inform... limit the spread of the epidemic, inform the public. As far as I was able to find out, until yesterday the municipalities had not received any instructions or information on how to act, so each one does it on its own, how he understands it and how much he deems necessary. I will say to one executive director, the executive director of a rather large municipality, that: “We feel in the dark, read the orders of the Cabinet of Ministers, listen to what the Prime Minister is talking about, how a foreign person reacts, try to understand at what stage we are at. Perhaps we can do more than the Cabinet can afford to accept. There's no information if we're sick. In my opinion, it would mobilise those who take all this seriously." Thus, as the municipalities watch, their actions are very, very different. Some local authorities, who have convened a meeting of the civil protection commission, have accepted certain plans for action. There are municipalities that have only official information on the sources of information available to them, and nothing unnecessary or nothing more. There are municipalities that are over-accepted... inform and use this situation. There are municipalities that have declared that, for example, there will be no penalty for late public service services, there are different types of assistance, but there is where nothing is done. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that, indeed, local authorities have very many different resources to address, to inform their citizens, for example, the local police can follow the limitation of public measures and public order. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as a general rule, if they miss their holidays, local authorities specifically organise and plan to ensure public order. Currently, student and student holidays will be much longer. Social services can take care of their customers, and they really see what is happening in the municipality on the spot. I call on the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who is a member of the Crisis Management Board and at the same time responsible for the work of municipalities, to take the initiative and coordinating role, and to ensure coordinated action between municipalities and state institutions, as well as between different municipalities. Local governments can effectively inform, calm down and take care of each of their citizens, but they only need to trust them, they need to be informed and allowed to operate. Also, colleagues, I would like to inform you that a meeting of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government will take place half an hour after the Saeima meeting, where we also plan to discuss all these issues. Thank you. I invite you to support the order.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U13	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U14	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I strongly support the steps taken by the government. Firstly, I believe that they are in great detail in time and in content. Secondly, if I think that something needs to be done faster, smarter, otherwise, I'll make it known, but not necessarily from this platform. I have one question and one comment. At the end of that... there would be a recommendation. I'm looking at the BIP. I have a question: ‘ Are you still part of this government? Do you at least support this government or not?’ If you are in favour, then writing public letters to the Prime Minister at this point is, to put it easy, a very strange step. What does this step show? This shows that the government is not united. One point. And the other is that the government is acting in some way wrong. I would not want to go into these steps, and I also watched a live video on what would be right in the economy. You know: if we do everything that you propose, we will now do as you have promised, we will certainly be in insolvency in that country, in fact in bankruptcy, within the next two months. Steps in the economy need to be taken, but they need to be taken carefully. Be prepared for active action - it is not a speech! But it must be reasonable. And today to say that everyone knows the medicine is... it is simply a bluff, because this is not something, if it can be said, a natural disaster that, however devastating, has come to an end and we have to deal with the consequences. At the moment, we do not know what period will take place. It is very important that we change the instruments that we do if this continues for a month or this one continues for three months or, if God does not give, for longer. And the medicine will be different at each stage. What must be carefully understood is that there must be several scenarios here, but the first... As says, under the first scenario, no medicinal product should be given that will be harmful if a third is needed. So, on my part, all the support. I say once again: I believe that we are on the right track in large trains. I very much call on everyone to understand once again that this is not some kind of election, a time before the elections, when we are going to show here who is out smarter than the other, in public letters. I would understand that the opposition could write public letters because they do not participate directly in the work of the government and otherwise, but not those in the government. Everyone looks at us. We got the old guys looking at us! - people at risk look at us in the children's hope that parents have enough understanding of what to do in such a situation, entrepreneurs look at us, the whole society. They would like to be convinced that this is the moment when Parliament and the government are able to reach agreement in one whole and work to close this, I will say, Pandora's box. Let's close it, and then we'll have something to talk about. But let's close it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U15	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U16	Good morning, colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the government for its operational action. Using the fact that Mr Rinkēvičs is present, I would like to inform you what questions are being asked by voters and people. I will take this opportunity to refer these issues to the government. I am dividing them by area. Well, first of all, what Mr Bergmanis has already said about the need for a single site where people can come in and read the complete summary of the information, because the information is divided between different sources and therefore rumours are spreading. The rumours are spreading very actively and need to dispel them. So the first area of health care. There are a lot of rumors on the Internet about the lack of artificial ventilation equipment in Latvia. Is the number of these facilities identified, and has private clinics and private suppliers also been identified, and have they been contracted? Secondly. Could it not, however, be possible to clarify the chain between the 113 Call Centre and the Disease Prevention and Control Centre if they provide conflicting information about what should be done first of all to a person who has just returned from the countries affected by the Covid-19, how many days to be isolated and whether there is a need for appropriate analysis? Thirdly. Testing on Covid-19. Due to the fact that yesterday there were new opportunities with COBA-688800, which, unlike COBA-6800, is already able to serve more than four thousand patients per day. This system is currently being used by Germany and Switzerland. Is there also a possibility for Latvia to join and import an appropriate test facility? Next. What concerns the crossing of borders. A lot of complaints about the fact that the consular department's telephone, which is distributed publicly, cannot be called. People spend a whole day contacting this phone and getting information. There are also complaints about the fact that there are very, very high, high prices for air tickets so that people can return to Latvia. What to do if there is no such money? Next. Trade and business responsibilities. People... Very, very many people are upset about rising prices, above all, for disinfectants and facial masks. ‘ In the price club’s face masks were sold yesterday – one euro for the mask. People demand that the Ministry of Economics could have one phone to inform about disproportionate price rises at specific points of sale. Next. Business support. There is still no information on whether there will be any measures in Latvia regarding tax holidays or any other support measures. Today, the example of Denmark and the example of the United States has already been mentioned. At the same time, during these days, due to the spread of Covid-19 disease caused by the coronavirus, travellers are informed of their rights and the right to request that the tourist companies receive back all the advances they have paid for the journey. Could it not, however, coordinate the Ministry of Economy with regard to business support during these difficult days? It's about schools. Teachers ask questions as to whether teachers really need to come to work... on empty schools when children sit at home. Next. How will remote training be provided for children who do not have a computer or a smartphone at home, and are these children conscious? There is a demand for hotline psychological support because people are reading...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U17	Mrs Ločmeles-Lunova, the debate is over. Do you want to combine the times?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U18	You can literally do one thing... Is that so? ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) And the last one. Whether the current situation in the country could be recognised as force majeure, as it affects insurance, business contracts and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U19	Thank you, Mrs Lochmele-Lunova. Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U20	Good morning, colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. First of all, I would like to say that, of course, I support the draft prepared by the government and that this is very important. Thank the government for doing so. But I would also like to point out, however... I myself personally from my own observations, as well as from what the voters have called me about. First. Something about this emergency situation. The operator sends a text message, I click on the link, and the English text opens to me. I understand, but if it's... if such links are sent to a very large number of citizens, I assume there are also people who do not understand. That is why we also have a lot to do ourselves. Second. If we are talking about the Saeima, about our colleagues, then we should also make a formal decision that if there is a feeling of self-insulation (it seems that the Bureau has not made such a decision), and in this case... in case of signs of disease or when we suspect that we might have been in contact... that we really should stay home. Next. Yes, I also understand the government's concerns - and also the Prime Minister - about kindergartens. Regarding special services and cops, it's possible that there's a lot of... the solution must be found. It is a great concern for entrepreneurs, because very many now have to close down companies, and then they are unaware too. I'm talking to an accountant today. She calls dozens of businessmen - what to do with the staff? Excuse me? Free leave? If you do not agree, what are the consequences? The company's got to make it hard? If you agree, then one story... So there is really a lot of uncertainty here, too. I think that the public authorities still have a duty to provide more resources for consultation, because, after all, if visitors are not accepted, this can be done by phone. Another important thing I would suggest to the government to think about. If, in the future, stronger measures are to be adopted - as is in other countries where only grocery shops are open - then it must be remembered about food producers, about farmers, about the food industry. I remind you that there are about 20,000 producing farms in Latvia that produce for the market, and 40,000 home farms that also produce agricultural products. If we leave only grocery stores open, then we need to think about how these farms are provided with the necessary resources - feed, different... either, various other production... the necessary things. So, I think... Well, it is very important to remember that agriculture - it is the industry that we need, because we have to eat. If other countries also limit the exports of food products, then right now, yes, we have enough stocks, everything is fine, but we cannot create a situation where some production stops because... Well, you well understand that if a cow has to be wiped and fed, then it has to be done every day and cannot wait there. I am therefore asked, however, to look at these vital, strategic points in a slightly broader way. And in this case, food production is of strategic importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U21	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U22	Good morning, colleagues! Minister! First of all, thank the government for its work. And, of course, I too support the decision of the Saeima. But some comments, recommendations in this context on past and future actions. One. It was very clear when the borders would be closed. But what is obvious is that the population is very short of practical information on how to return to the country both during this period, given that there are travel restrictions in neighbouring countries, as well as on days immediately following the closure of the borders. Well, for example, if a person arrives in Lithuania at night on March 18, what will be the opportunity to get home, where the border points will work? They must explain that, when public transport is limited, it is up to them to find a path to the border. They have to explain that a relative - Mom, Dad, Brother - can't go back because it's the most typical thing: "Let's go to Vilnius!" Such practical questions... Unfortunately, there is no public answer. And I would recommend that we also ensure in the near future how to get home from the closest neighbouring countries. Because it's true that consular phones can't be called right now. Obviously there is an overload. And simply writing written applications can't get information. The second question is about kindergartens. I support the idea that the visits to kindergartens should be tightened up. But I think that this step should be even more radical, that it really should only be left to the children of the professions that we urgently need. Because the Infectologists themselves also say that the next days will be crucial. Now it happens that by limiting schools, limiting public activities, and allowing children to be brought only in kindergartens, the parent has not been in contact with an infected person, the parent may not even know that he or she is in contact with an infected person. It happens that we blow a tire, then we find an alyn to pierce it. For further work. Yes, entrepreneurs now have a critical moment because a large group of entrepreneurs must decide what to do with their economic activities, what to do with their employees. If they had more accurate information on what kind of support the government can expect, they would be able to make precise decisions. It has been said to the public that there will be billions that there will be Altum guarantees, but this is too general information. And guarantees alone, especially for a company, if it can no longer even export at the moment, do not really give anything. The question is, will there be any credit days? Will there be interest-free loans? Will there be tax holidays? Will there be State aid to cover sickness sheets? The sooner entrepreneurs know it, the more correct their actions will also be against employees. Yes, and also the deadline for the submission of annual reports, one practical thing which has already been mentioned for associations and foundations. The involvement of municipalities has already been expressed, this theme. But one important consideration also of why more active work with municipalities is needed is their social services. Social services also offer to operate their services remotely. But their customers are mostly poor families, poor and poor families, who often do not have the Internet and have the opportunity to communicate remotely. People who do not usually have regular employment relationships - even if they are laid off or not employed - will also not have unemployment benefits. The employees of the case currently have the most difficult situation, and therefore the involvement of local authorities, identifying each of these poor, poor families and understanding what support is needed at the moment, is very necessary. Finally. Public finances. I will, as I mentioned last week, also have to move the public budget towards a crisis regime. The Ministry of Finance must issue an order to all the other ministries to identify the necessary expenditure - the most acute - and the rest must be abandoned. A financial reserve needs to be created to provide citizens, entrepreneurs, the public with the necessary support at this very critical time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U23	Thank you to Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U24	Hello, colleagues! I think that, on these holidays, everyone, at least most, certainly, to some extent personally or somewhere during the consultation has been involved in any solution to this issue, and... and indeed its daily problems were quite marked. There's a lot of talk here. The consular office's phone seems to be there, but you can't call. All those questions, those that I think should be dealt with... I would also like to touch on one issue that concerns the involvement of municipalities, in particular, the involvement of large municipalities in this problem. Now it's absolutely clear... On holiday, I spoke very personally to large municipal leaders about the situation in each particular location. Well, there's no clear information. Among other things, from Friday evening, I was already called and asked for really important questions... What to do if you really have a very large population... Their movement was restricted in one particular city. But that's all... These questions are currently left by local authorities in their own right, in their interpretation. Of course, you can read the rules of the MK, of course, you can read the decisions of the government and try to understand something from what the head of the government said, but there is unfortunately no direct communication and some communication channel with the municipalities at present. I would ask you to think about it and to establish it as soon as possible. It's not normal for the heads of civil protection commissions to... and they have a lot of possibilities, the services at their disposal are very influential to solve some local problems if they get there... At present, there is no information about it in the territories of these managers, and all decisions are made, let us say so, on the senses. I think it's really... It's not really normal. The involvement of municipalities should now only be encouraged, and this will only be good for all of us. I think it is not normal for me to be called and asked how to deal with a person, let's say blocking, their chance... their movement. This is about a large number of people, not five or ten. This is about denying the mobility of hundreds of people for a whole day in this case. So, colleagues, I call you to get involved. For the rest, which... One thing I think is this great emphasis on entrepreneurs. But let's be objective, let's see who these people are from public administration, who will be the first... And it's already working... Looking at the practice of other countries, however, medical staff... We all know that medical staff... There is currently a large shortage of care workers at all. Talking to the hospitals in the regions - it already points out that the country should give a clear signal in this situation with regard to their pay, a clear signal with regard to their motivation to work at all, because everyone sees the international press and sees how many medical workers are also personally suffering from the spread of this virus. Hospital question... There should also be communication here. Regions... Also, when we call major regional hospitals, we all understand this issue in our own sense. There is no one-size-fits-all, one-size-fits-all. In Liepaja - one approach, in Daugavpils - another approach, in Jelgava Hospital - another approach. I think that is not normal in this situation. There is a lack of coordination in the regions, and I would recommend that this be done directly with the heads of civil protection commissions. These are concrete people in every region where everyone responds... Around 100,000 people are in their care circle, including all regional hospitals, municipal police, social services. These are some people who need to be involved in this process so that they have a direct information account... direct awareness of what is happening. Unfortunately, this section is missing at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U25	Thank you, Mr. Valains. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U26	Good morning, Members of the Saeima! Good morning, Mr. Rinkēvičs! A very specific question. 1 April is the deadline for the annual reports of the associations. Some associations have to approve their annual accounts at general meetings in accordance with their statutes. In the current situation, it may be difficult to hold general meetings, especially if there are many members in the congregation. I ask the Cabinet to assess the possibility of moving the deadline for the annual accounts of the associations to the beginning of May. Perhaps also the deadlines may be moved in other cases, Mr Rinkēvičs, when the national authorities set 1 April as the deadline for the submission of documents. I ask for this opportunity to be considered and for my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U27	Thank you, Mr. Pimenova. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Are Members opposed to merging the time of the debate? ( The box “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Time merged.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U28	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, society! I think I'll be in five minutes, but still... This is a time when we must all be united. This time is not a time of coalition and opposition, and therefore, in other circumstances, I would say that, after the recent events taking place in the government, the JPV LV should go away. But since today is an emergency, I call on the JPV LV to remain in government and to be united. This is a time in which, in my view, the public in Parliament and government expect the following - and most importantly... It is understandable to set out how private sector entrepreneurs and workers should act, as it is not a secret that the majority of society does not have savings. Entrepreneurs don't have a miracle charge, a tumbočka to pick up from. All are not involved in the retail trade of food and essential goods. And that means only one thing: the situation is unprecedented so far, and there is no reason to hope that it can be dealt with by traditional, bureaucratic methods. We need to take different solutions, and we will have to think differently. I call on the Ministry of Finance, together with the Bank of Latvia, to evaluate the most affected sectors of the economy and to provide them with concrete and practical assistance, starting with a concrete, clear vision today. Most importantly. We now have to find an opportunity to reduce the cost of living for Latvian citizens and entrepreneurs, the cost of survival - electricity, heat, gas, prices, debts. ( Interface: Internet!) ) I believe that it is now necessary to establish that the items in question (such as gas or electricity) must be supplied at a cost. I believe that this is the time to abolish the OIC, and it is not ridiculous, because it reduces the cost of living for the majority of society. Those who want to blackmail the country... I call on the relevant minister to go to a strategic partner and ask such blackmailer to be included on the sanctions list. I call for an assessment of the introduction of tax holidays for certain sectors of the economy, and for a moratorium on all forms of recovery. In fact, I call on the government and Parliament to officially declare a state of force majeure, which is objective, not only in Latvia, but in fact throughout Europe. ( INTERPRETATION OF THE GROUP: “All the signs are, yes! ” ) We need to review the budget heading carefully once again. I would reduce civil servants' salaries, public sector wages in general. Because it is guaranteed regardless of economic processes in the short term. For people who are not dependent on the budget, this would help to survive in these difficult circumstances. Once again, review budget expenditure! I will give you an example. Financial Intelligence. We have recently foreseen 10 million this year. I do not see any useful use of such funds at the moment. There's nothing to investigate at the moment. Nothing happens. These are unnecessary expenditure. I would be even more radical. This is a crisis situation, and there is no joke. I personally (and that is my subjective opinion) would ban gaming halls, especially peripherally. If I didn't ban it, it'd raise taxes in this area. Finally. In today's circumstances, we need to have solidarity. In today’s circumstances, the greatest risk is to their families and to themselves is to be placed under the responsibility of doctors who are treating and will treat those who are infected with the virus. In today's circumstances, if we are jointly and severally, we need to raise the salary - at least EUR 1 500 per hand - for these doctors, these people. It is called solidarity. Public sector - to reduce, medical practitioners - to increase. If things change, let us see how we can restore everything. And by the end. This is the lead time. You, we all have the opportunity to show the public that we are not officials, bureaucratic, mediocre, but leaders, both in this hall and in the government. We must say to the honest public that this is and will be the biggest crisis in at least the last 80 years. It has already begun. We must honestly say to the public that the emergency means that we will all suffer and that we will all have to leave our comfort zone. We need to be honest about the reality of society and give clear and clear instructions on how to act. Because there is no doubt that, at best, society is unaware, but in fact it is very afraid. I call on everyone now to understand that only unitedly - the whole society is united! - we will get out of this situation much easier. Today there are no Russians, Latvians, no coalitions and no opposition. Today we are a united nation, and that is what we must do. May God help us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U29	Thank you, Mr. Gobzem. Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U30	Good morning, colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that I will definitely support the Cabinet of Ministers' order, amendments and really try to support everyone... all possible means of action by the government in this situation. I think we all have to bear in mind that the government will have to decide quickly and act many more times. Perhaps we will also have to meet quickly here in the Saeima to confirm these government decisions many times. And I'm sure we're all ready for it. Because, with the agreement of the previous speaker, I would like to say that this is a time of solidarity - solidarity that we have already demonstrated in many ways and solidarity that we will still show. Solidarity begins and ends with individual actions of each individual, which together form a joint, coherent action delivering the desired result. And the desired result would, of course, be that we can protect society from illness and the economy from excessive shock so that we can hope to return to a relatively normal life as soon as possible. We have been relatively good at the moment. The number of sick people is not so high at this point, at the same time it is clear that we have the biggest challenges ahead of us. At the moment, we do not actually have serious cases that would require more serious intervention by medical practitioners, but people come back from abroad, from the areas affected by the crisis, and, in fact, the greatest question and the greatest responsibility at the moment, the greatest need for solidarity is for these people who will have returned and to whom they, their relatives and all of us, as a society, would have to respect this 14 days, I would say, mandatory self-insulation and self-warrantine. There are a number of target groups that need special attention at present. I would like to agree with all those who have expressed their support for medical practitioners - and I will do the same - all the other people of emergency services, the representatives of our government, the leaders of various services who have worked tirelessly to deal with this crisis situation. People who are stuck abroad, who are currently trying to help return to Latvia by the foreign service - they need to help, and it is not the time to condemn and judge at what point who has gone to the country. We will probably do that. We can learn from this... of this disaster for a long time, but now it is necessary to help those in need. I hope and trust that tomorrow, at the latest tomorrow, the government will decide on the first important economic aid measures. We see that the services sector as a whole (not only in the sectors involved in travel) is falling... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, Businesses have started to lay off workers and have started to delocalise people on unpaid leave. This is the situation that requires a solution. We predicted that this would be the case. Urgent government intervention is needed. We must not allow this virus to cause serious illness to the Latvian economy for a long time. Colleagues! We all understand that this crisis will not end quickly. Even if we, Latvia, together, avoid the worst scenarios and get through relatively easier than other countries, we will, of course, have to contract for a long time, because in other countries - and I will not mention concrete examples, but here in Europe - the situation is unfortunately very serious. It will be a long time, and we will have to protect ourselves from those countries where this situation has almost completely gone out of control. So nothing in this situation can replace common sense to... I am grateful to all my colleagues from the opposition, from the position - indeed, at the moment it is not essential where the proposals come from. If there are rational proposals, all of them must be taken into account, assessed and converted into decisions. However, it will not be possible for everyone and everyone to dictate a detailed algorithm of how to act in every situation. Common sense and mutual responsibility are what we need now more than ever. To wish us all to succeed in this, thank you very much to all those working on the first line of the front to deal with this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U31	Thank you, Mr. Pavilut. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U32	Minister! Since, in fact, there are no other options for the Saeima to change the decisions of the government - and that is also correct - the government is the master of the ship, then I very much hope that all today's statements will be heard and translated into decisions. I would therefore like to draw attention to the need that may have been addressed, but perhaps a little more importantly, to the working rhythm and the definition of the operation of special schools. At present, special education institutions are, of course, municipal education institutions and for the time being, they are subject to the same rules as any school (or decisions taken by kindergartens), but since they are not large and there are really heavy children, it seems that a single government decision is needed to determine what algorithm is working and what is being done by special education institutions. Well, at least two reasons for it. Firstly, because (we know) these institutions provide substantial social support, including catering, care and so on. Secondly, they provide not only an educational support function, possibly with support for educators, but also the necessary medical support, prevention and action. That would therefore be what we should pay attention to. Thirdly, the country would also show concern that it takes care of one of the social groups... groups of people to whom attention is paid. That would be all right at this point. I really hope that what Members are talking about right now, especially in education... that it will also create the said... an algorithm, a description of the operation, whether or not to be performed. Perhaps it is delayed, but I will also mention vocational institutions. Perhaps it should be assessed - where children are in practice, it may not be necessary to put an end to its activities. Maybe practice outside Riga or large cities, or outside the map regions... That if they work especially in small businesses or perhaps remotely - these children too can practice out. It is likely that this would provide a rational solution, because it is quite difficult to recover from the practice. But I invite you to think about children of special education very rational and quite quickly, because they are now on vacation. Children are conditioned at home. They return, as the municipality decides, but it should be set together. It would be grateful if our recommendations, too, were to be considered rationally, so that no other means - perhaps stupid - should be used. Thank you, and endurance!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U33	Thank you, Mrs. Papule. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U34	Good morning, colleagues! As young Conservatives, we are convinced of the need to act decisively, courageously, and thoroughly at this point. — Insight: “Fun!” ) to escape the scenario of economic depression so as to escape the new wave of emigration that we experienced 10 years ago. ( INTERPRETATION FROM THE GROUP: “Where? ” ) In this context, we have proposed to the government a number of points which we believe should be implemented as soon as possible. So, first of all, negotiations with banks, commercial banks, on credit freedom, both for businesses and for employees working in the sectors most affected by the crisis. Today we will also vote directly in favour of Ģirts Rūds, a member of the KGB Council, and I also wish him every success... Indeed, for him, for Mrs Purgile, for the rest of the Council of the FCTC, in this hard work - to achieve a good solution in negotiations with the banks, both for the banks, for the economy and for the citizens. Second. We have to cancel... labour taxes in certain sectors, i.e. personal income tax and social contributions in the sectors most affected. And why is that necessary? This is necessary for staff to be kept until these months of crisis pass. Third. I hope that today, tomorrow, we will hear from the government and from the coalition's decision on sick leave. Here a solution is proposed that there could be a state-paid disability page from the second day of incapacity for work. That is the right direction. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Stepanenko's intermediate call.) Four. We offer to maximise the promotion of internal consumption - build roads, build bridges, build, restore apartment houses (interchanges from the fraction of Saskaņa.) , for example, in Riga for 10 years nothing has been done to warm up houses to improve them. Now is the time to open the wallet and promote consumption. Five. Of course, maximum openness of the State Revenue Service to entrepreneurs in these difficult circumstances. Six. To pay for all this, we have proposed that immediately, the fiscal space should be increased substantially by EUR 300 million, at least this year, so that we can, let us say, pay for these measures as well as for other measures that the opposition has also recommended, and so on. Plus - Latvia must borrow in international markets, I would say immediately, at least one billion euros, so that there is a buffer for the coming months, which we cannot predict what they will be. For our part, we promise to be firm both against our coalition partners and against the Ministry of Finance, so that we get to decisions that really help the economy, the business community, so that there are no cosmetic improvements that do not, by their very nature, help. We will also be very close to ensuring that senior officials are effective, proactive and motivated in these difficult circumstances. Thank you, good luck to us.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U35	Thank you, Mr. Eglitis. (Applause) The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U36	Hello, colleagues! I wanted to clarify slightly what I said or what I was saying about education. So first of all, the Ministry of Education and Science puts emphasis on the recommendation not to bring children to kindergartens, if possible. Following the drafting of the legislative amendments on which we will vote today, the educational institutions... pre-school educational institutions must provide on-call groups - so on-call groups! And this group is primarily needed to provide, if necessary, a place to leave children... Thus, the most important workers at this moment - doctors, border guards, police and other primarily involved in crisis resolution. Also on education, on special educational institutions. I think we... we have also discussed the need for them to work on a similar on-call time. The practice of vocational education institutions could also be left open. We are still discussing this. But it's very possible. Finally, I wanted to reaffirm once again what my colleague, Gatis Eglitis, has just said: we need to increase the budget expenditure and, above all, to do it with one aim, so that it does not happen the same thing that happened 10 years ago. We cannot afford a second wave of emigration. We believe that at that time too little was spent and could... could have done it more effectively. The second wave of emigration - no matter what, we cannot afford it in the Latvian economy. Good luck to everyone! Yeah... (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U37	Thank you, Mr. Znotiņš. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U38	Good morning! It is obvious that the circumstances of de iure and de facto force majeure in Latvia and not only... but all over Europe. Public interests require appropriate action by both the legislator and the executive. From a socio-economic point of view, social protection measures for workers are needed, and I think it would be only logical to consider the possibility of covering 75 per cent of the wage from the social budget for workers whose businesses... or self-employed workers who are forced... without work... hospitality. Hotels... recreational, tourism sectors, establishments whose orders have been suspended as a result of viral quarantine. It is acutely necessary to postpone the payment of tax debts by suspending penalties and penalties. The possibility of extending the time limits for the payment of current taxes without penalty and late payment should be considered. Problems with the transmission of annual accounts in the context of the organisation of the meeting of participants - it is necessary to extend the deadline for submission to the annual accounts. Of course, the effectiveness of eGovernment needs to be assessed and tested. The lack of information about the possibilities to submit remote applications, to receive documents will allow to evaluate how e-platforms work, where people can turn to meet the challenges and how citizens' interests are ensured. It is possible to decide on the efficiency of human resources and the reduction of expenditure in the evaluation and monitoring exercise. Once, public administration spending needs to be reviewed and all businesses that simply parasite at the expense of the public budget, such as Possessor, should be eliminated. Social services - they need to monitor the health situation of the elderly and disadvantaged and provide operational information and assistance to people in critical situations. It is necessary to assess the incentives for rentals, the payment of electricity bills, the payment of gas bills, the reduction and non-application of late payment or fines. And for borrowing in foreign markets. I would rather recommend using a fiscal reserve and heating the economy with other resources available in the internal market instead of borrowing still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U39	Thank you, Mrs. Schvekov. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, First of all, thank you to the government for the additional decisions we have taken, which we will also approve in the Saeima today. But I would like to draw attention to further steps that we should consider and look at in line with the information also provided by the Foreign Minister. The return of Latvian citizens to Latvia could continue for the next 10 days, thus remaining the issue of so-called self-insulation, home quarantine. And here one idea related to the services sector, in particular hotels, should be considered, realising that there are already a number of hotels that have stopped their activity, and yet the government could... Consideration should be given to the idea of providing self-carantine to these people who are returning now, after 16 March, in Latvia... to choose voluntarily self-insulation at home, in the family or self-insulation that can be provided by hotels with state support. Why? It's not that only full families will return. There will be family members returning home. And I think a person needs to be given the opportunity to choose to spend quarantine in a room other than at home, because who wants potential for good reason and heart will... if he's also a virus carrier... the quarantine of that house take in the home conditions, where he therefore automatically... also imposes on all other family members... where we see that general quarantine has not been declared in Latvia. This would be an additional burden. And here should also consider the idea that, starting at 00.00 on March 17, anyone who comes across the land border or via air or sea routes... Citizens or foreign nationals who hold a residence permit in Latvia will sign a legal document that they undertake to comply with the quarantine of their home, self-insulation. I would like to draw attention to another issue that we see, which can be observed both on the Latvian-Lithuanian border and on the Latvian-Estonian border. Consequently, long lines specific to freight transport. Clearly, these are supply chains... delivery... the supply of goods. And here I would call on the government to agree with local producers who specifically produce sanitary disinfectants to prevent these products from being exported for a certain period, thereby providing reserves for both the private sector and the public sector - medical institutions. If there's... Of course, there is once again the question of the European free market, the flow of goods. Well, we see that the supply chains have been crushed. However, for such important disinfectants, I think it would be justified to focus local purchases, which can therefore be produced locally, thus reducing the unnecessary flow of transport across borders, and also ensuring the delivery of priority goods, goods and goods, both to public authorities and to the private sector at a given time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U41	Thank you, Mr. Cole. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U42	Dear colleagues, Adding... Yes, that's right, Mr. Cole! As we have mentioned in the proposals, we have to work with local producers, we have a lot... either at least one known producer of disinfectants. And we have somehow not understood at the moment whether the government has spoken about creating special reserves or not. There are also facial masks. Their production could indeed start. What I would like to add is, above all, that of those who return from Europe, of that road transport column. Perhaps it will be necessary to think about some kind of humanitarian assistance at the border of Latvia when they enter, because people are likely to be tired, probably not sleeping, hungry, in general... we do not know under which conditions this column will pass through Poland and Lithuania. Please consider how to welcome these people in Latvia. Of course, also by providing for medical examination and disinfection. But people will be really tired, hungry, unsleeping, and there will be so many. Thousands. Colleagues, I call you really operationally perhaps also to convene the sittings of the Saeima Commission, where we can gather these proposals, to the Cabinet of Ministers, so that everything goes faster, because I do not know whether what we are saying from the triangle, which is currently broadcast to the Cabinet of Ministers, or whether we will have to make it in writing again. I therefore call on you to work quickly, including the honourable committee leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U43	Thank you, Mrs Stepanenko. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U44	Colleagues! So many of these economic issues are being tribal... and, as I understood, tomorrow is a government sitting, including on economic issues. It's all right. But everyone has certainly read a lot of materials, and yet, as Mr Pavilut said, the front line will be medical staff. And I think it would be particularly important, at the moment, politically, to give priority to this issue in the government, because at the moment it seems that medical workers are living their own lives, even though everyone is clearly aware that it will be the first priority on the front line, they will be the ones who will fight the most if this virus starts to spread even more. At this point in time, I think no one can claim that this will not happen. So much emphasis on economic issues is right, but as much emphasis should be placed on medical staff too. I have just read an article about the situation in Italian pharmacy, where people with noses go to the pharmacy after the medicine. In fact, it is this virus, and in the end there is no pharmacist who even serves people in the pharmacy. Imagine what if the pharmacy suddenly stopped working! The whole health challenge is also that of planned different measures. That too... how everything is broken down. It's medical, health... In my opinion, we should now consider even more priority than economic issues. Economic issues will be solved in the same way. They will be dealt with, but the issue of medicine must now be on the agenda as the first issue precisely about understanding the circumstances of workers and all those involved in care and trying to improve this situation in any way.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U45	Thank you, Mr. Valains. The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U46	Hello, colleagues! I support the amendments to these orders. But the most important thing I wanted to do today is not to talk about medicine, even though you feel that perhaps the most important thing I could talk about today is the epidemiological situation. I would like to ask you to think that we all call on social networks, and also from this platform, for social isolation, distance, self- isolation. But we ourselves sit in the room for hours... quite a large number, quite an unventilated room, and that's my call... I understand that such amendments cannot be made immediately and are changes even in the Constitution. But given that life is going ahead, think about that... Maybe the Saeima doesn't become disabled... if it is unable to come together physically, and to think about such legislative changes. That is why my call is more so that we, too, show by our actions how the public should now function in this new context. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U47	Thank you to Mrs. Chash. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U48	Hello, colleagues! Of course, I will also support the draft decision prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, the order. But I wanted to say that, in such crisis situations, information for citizens on how to deal with certain situations must be unambiguous, without interpretation. And here I would like to talk about one situation that is now emerging in the education sector - pre-school education for those parents who, unfortunately, cannot find another way to look after their children and who want to take their children to watch groups in kindergartens. In this situation, according to the information on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, parents must sign a certificate. The ISM website shall also contain a model for this attestation. And the proof is that the pet and the family have not been abroad in the last 14 days, have not been in contact with the Covid-19 sick or contact persons, and the same model of attestation refers to the contact person, as well as to point 22 of Article 1 of the Law on Epidemiological Safety: ‘The contact person - a person who has been in direct or indirect contact with an infectious person or has been in contact with an epidemic and who has had the opportunity to become infected’. Colleagues, I know that at present there are apartment houses in Riga, where statements have been made that there is a person living in this staircase because he has been infected with Covid-19. And the question now is: do those children passing through such a stairway area have the possibility of being infected or of being infected? And how should parents interpret this situation? Is there any possibility of interpretation? And I ask you quickly, to find an answer to such situations as quickly as possible, a clear answer to what parents can and cannot do, and this also applies not only to the field of education, but to any area if there is a situation... in a crisis situation, there must be a fully clear algorithm of action on how to act. And I ask both governments and Members to think about these things and, if necessary, also to make more precise clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U49	Thank you, Mr. Wucaan. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U50	Hello, colleagues! As in any situation - is rational and emotional. It is clear that legislative initiatives are needed, and at the moment I am not going to discuss how effective they are or how ineffective they are. One thing is to make the right law, the other thing is to comply with that law. In my opinion, one of the most important things to limit this virus is not to fight its consequences... of course, the consequences must also be combated... but first of all it is to try to eliminate the causes. Yes, we have written this need for self-insulation into the law, but actually how will it work? I think this is the most important point if we really want to put an end to this epidemic so that it does not spread here - think about an effective self-insulation mechanism. Taking into account the awareness of our society... We have many things written in the law, let us say, on the road signs are also put together, with which speed you should travel, and you yourself know how they are respected. Almost nobody is watching them, so I can say it safely! - that with this requirement, which we now lay down in law, there will also be major problems. That's why I think it's rational... In order for us to effectively halt this epidemic, it is necessary to introduce... Another proposal, on my part, should be to put in place, that is, to follow these persons, to monitor those persons who are subject to this isolation condition. In particular, we could introduce bracelets, put them bracelets and parallel... in parallel as a condition if they fulfil it... Considering that they have additional inconveniences. (See the box below.) - Financial... they will also be able to receive financial incentives. In this way, we would make it possible for all those who are infected, not by hiding or walking around, but to be motivated to be at home primarily because they have a responsibility. Perhaps we could also foresee responsibility for them: 15 days in prison, as they did in the past for these minor abuses, they will still have to sit down for those 15 days. And it's better for them to sit at home than they can do... You're gonna have to do something in jail. That's one thing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. ( See I. Puga.) The other thing. Provision should also, of course, be made for financial motivation so that these people are motivated to apply themselves, receive this bracelet themselves and then fulfil these conditions, let us say, a specific amount of money. Let's say 500 euros. That's... For the company it would be nothing... Total... but the contribution would be huge. In this way, we would exclude these people from socialisation and, at the same time, reduce the social tension that is now taking place, that there is psychosis around them, or that someone is ill or not. It would be very clear whether this person is ill or not and where he is. That's the other thing. And the third thing. In my opinion, it would also be time to remember solidarity between generations. I'm still at the age of remembering a book like... which was mandatory literature to read in summer... as “Timur and his team”. As you remember, there were young people who took care of those older people, whose children had gone to the front and who could not take care of themselves. It could also be perhaps like a social movement when young people who are relatively immune to this virus (interdependence.) , to whom it does not threaten, could take care of the generation for which it is indeed very serious, so that they do not have to take on the risks of socialisation. So these two practical things, but especially the first. I think that would be the most effective way. And in parallel with that, we make all these giants... I assume that there is no interest on the part of the coalition in all this because you already have in mind how you will share billions. I have already heard the preparation of the corridors (Interfaces from the U.K.V. and the UK Group. Medicines cause noise.) ... lists are being prepared, companies are already calling: we will have such a project... and therefore you are not interested (Interior call.) to combat it effectively, because you need these next steps, this fight by heroes against the economy, the money that can be redistributed. If that's not... I think that this proposal to limit effectively those people from socialisation who are carriers of this risk, the virus, would be remarkable and you would observe it. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U51	Colleagues! Before I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, an application has been received from Members Pavļuta, Zakatistova, Dzintara, Kaimina and Feldman, asking the Saeima to continue the extraordinary sitting on 16 March this year, without interruption, until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U52	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Honourable Members! Indeed, thank you very much for all the proposals, both from the opposition and from the position. I will take the opportunity to respond to some, not all (I have recorded everything, everything will be passed on to the ministers and institutions responsible)... But to some things and some questions I will try to answer very quickly. Firstly, Mrs Stepanenko, thank you also for helping to share yesterday with us the information that was available on social networks. Thank you to all my colleagues, including the politicians who did. We are still working on many details of the crisis. It is really time for a late night, at night, that was changed, but we continue to accept both calls and e-mails and work to make all people through this humanitarian corridor, and let us also do our best to get these people to Latvia. We're still trying to understand... Given that the situation is changing rapidly, for example, Germany has introduced border controls very recently, literally this morning. Many countries are very often quite radically changing their decisions, which, of course, leaves an impression, but as a result, we are doing everything we can to set up a convoy, to understand what will then be, and also the questions you have mentioned about the fact that people are tired, there are lines, we are trying to deal with the Polish authorities. Better, worse, but we do what we can, and our Embassy in Germany and Poland also does. Mr Bergmanis, Mrs Goldberga, Mrs Lochmeles-Lunova, thank you for all the things you have mentioned. That's definitely what we're... I will certainly pass it on. On the consular phone. We have already increased our capacity yesterday, we are increasing our capacity today. There's a lot of calls, information is being recorded, it's being answered. We're really... To a large extent, we have only now understood how many people are outside the country. And that is what I have said and my colleagues in the ministry have always asked: when you go, register in the Consular Register. It has not always happened, and in such a crisis situation, it suddenly turns out that non-registration and the situation that we do not know even the vast majority of the people who are present are unfortunately not good for us, but we are actually increasing its capacity at every moment, and today there will also be additional human lines. It's working on it. On the extension of the annual accounts of the associations mentioned by both Mr Gobzem and Mr Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Mr Pimenov and... If I haven't named anyone... I will certainly pass this information on to my colleagues in the Ministry of Justice. These issues need to be addressed. I also thank you for the problems that you mention, because many things really appear in this crisis situation at every moment, every day. And also what Mrs Papule said about educational institutions, especially about education... if I maybe miss out on that term... ‘with special needs’... ‘with special needs or with special educational institutions’ (Dep. E. Papule: “Yes!” )... This information will be passed on to Mrs Šuplinsk after this meeting. And also, Mr Kola, thank you for your proposal on hotels, self-insulation and signature. I would like to say that, in connection with the signature of the mandatory introduction of self-insulation or quarantine, the order that I hope you will approve today actually lays down both criminal and administrative responsibility. We talked about it quite a lot on Saturday, specifically recorded it. And also the conditions which are written in the order, what men should do, in themselves, if any do not do anything, are the basis for bringing them to justice. And thank you also to Mr Vucana for his proposals. If I haven't mentioned anyone here, it doesn't mean it's not fixed. I have tried to gather all the proposals. But what would I say... Indeed, this virus does not sort out - a position, opposition, government ministers, Members or people... Nor does it sort out coalition partners. I really want to say thank you for what I saw here - a really unified spirit when we were looking for solutions. I really want to say that we will try to analyse. Perhaps some solution is not implemented for some reason, not because it came from the opposition... we are also guided by expert suggestions... But I want to say that if we don't share and work together and work for one purpose, then it will be hard to defeat us. But if we share and divide here, then the virus will deal with us as well. So thank you very much. I am asking you very much to support the government's order and, accordingly, to adopt it today.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U53	I closed the debate. I thank the Minister for his participation in the debate. (Applause) The name of the commission. Will you add anything?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U54	Yeah. Thank you, colleagues, for the debate and the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add that the opposition is heard and heard. An extraordinary meeting on the draft decision of the opposition will take place at 10 a.m. on Wednesday. In view of the need for more distance, we will look for more space, and it could be provisionally the Red Hall. We'll hear... and I would like to remind you that the deadline for submitting proposals is tomorrow. So let us wait for all the proposals and let us also wait for the people who want to come to this committee. It would be all for me. Thank you. I invite you to support the tabled draft commission... Hey, draft decision! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U55	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 13 March 2020 No. 104 ‘Amendment to the Cabinet Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 “Advertising the Emergency” and Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 14 March 2020 No. 105 “Amendments to the Cabinet Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 “Advertising the Emergency””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We've come to the second... under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust’, on the agenda. The draft decision ‘On the approval of Ülo Kaasik as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline’. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U56	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, First of all, thank you to the Bureau for including this issue - both by Ilo Kazika and Ģirta Rūda - on the agenda of the Saeima's sitting today, because these issues cannot be expected. In the Commission, both candidates - Ilo Kaziks and Ģirts Rūda - were unanimously supported, so you are asked to support the sitting of the Saeima. Ilo Kazik... Thus, there is the first draft decision. Request to support him as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U57	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Ülo Kaasik as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, for - 1, for - 1, for - 1. The decision has been taken. Congratulations to Ilo Wedding on confirmation! Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U58	Thank you, colleagues, for the previous vote. Now, in your decision, there is the question of Ģirts Rūds' approval as a member of the Council of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. The request to support, because the Commission was also supported by listening to Ģirts Rūds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U59	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Ģirts Rūda as a member of the Board of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Thus, Ģirts Rūda has been approved as a member of the Board of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. Congratulations and wish you success in your work! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U61	Thank you. (Applause) Colleagues, we have come to the third section of the work entitled ‘Provision of draft laws’. Draft law “On Agreement on Extension of the European Cooperation State Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the European Space Agency”. Rapporteur: Richard... Member Richard Coll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U62	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported the draft law “On the extension of the European Cooperation State Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the European Space Agency” at second reading. No proposals were received for the second reading. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U63	The draft law is urgent. And please call me! We will vote on an agreement on the extension of the European Cooperation State Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the European Space Agency! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. Colleagues! Today, there is also a very pleasant moment, because our colleague Uldis Augulis is celebrating his birthday today. We congratulate him! (Applause) (Laughter) Colleagues! The agenda has been examined. Please register the Members! To read the results of the registration, the name of the Member, Maria Golubeva. And for the statement, the name to Member Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U64	Dear members of the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission and respected members of the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission! A very short meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission now, immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U65	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Jānis Adamsons, Gundars Dauge, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Jānis Dombrava, Ilmars Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Janīna Jalinska, Andris Kazinovskis, Ivans Klementjevs, Janīna Kursite–Pakule, Ināra Mūrniece, Romanas Maudiņš, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Ēriks Pucens, Ivans Ribakovs, Ingunas (Dep. I. Ribakov: “I’m here!” )... Ribakov is, Inguna Rībena, Arthur Rubiks, Dace Rūkšāne–Ščipčinska, Karina Sprūde and Juta Strīķe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-16-PT13-2054-U66	I'm closing the sitting.
