ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! We shall begin the examination of the agenda of the remote emergency sitting on 26 November this year. Before starting an examination of the agenda already announced, I would like to inform you that the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission has sent a request to the Saeima presidency on the agenda item 10 of the draft law amending the legislation on aviation to be dealt with as item 1 before the first section of the agenda. Please activate section on procedure! Please vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” (No. 610/Lp13, third reading) is on the agenda today for this remote emergency session on 26 November as the first item on the agenda ahead of the first section of the agenda! Please vote mode! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. We are therefore starting to examine the amended agenda. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U2	Good evening, colleagues! We work with amendments to the Law on Aviation. Four proposals have been received for the third reading. 1. - the proposal of the committee responsible, which proposes to supplement the first paragraph of Article 13, with paragraph 6, in the following wording: "At the request of the person on whose behalf the IDERA licence was issued (if the Civil Aviation Agency has made an entry in the Civil Aviation Aircraft Register of the Republic of Latvia for the authorisation of IDERA)". Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U3	Thank you. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U4	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 3. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U5	Thank you. Members support proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U6	Not to support, but not to object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U7	Members support the Commission's decision and agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U8	Next... So 3. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which deals with the procedure for applying Article 9.2 of this Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U9	Members support 3. - a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U10	And 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible stating that the law shall enter into force on the day following that on which it is published. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U11	This one, too, is 4. - the proposal from the committee responsible is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U12	Thank you, colleagues. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U13	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item on the agenda of this sitting is the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, the expression of trust or distrust. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the first draft decision on the approved agenda “On the dismissal of the judge Zinaidas Lagzdiņa from the office of a judge of Riga Regional Court” has already been examined and adopted at another remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 26 November. That is why we are no longer looking at this issue today. The second issue on the agenda is the draft decision “On Dismissal of the Judge of Daugavpils Lidija Mičule from the position of a judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Valery Agešin. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U14	Dear colleagues, At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 17 November, the draft decision “On Dismissal of Lidija Mičule, a Judge of the Daugavpils Court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Lidija Mičulis, a judge of Daugavpils court, to be released from office of a judge by 31 December 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Lidija Mičule, a Judge of Daugavpils court from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the dismissal of the judge of the regional court of Kurzeme from the office of judge of Ingrīda Junghani. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U16	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 17 November, the draft decision “On the release of Ingrīda Junghāne, a judge of the regional court of Kurzeme from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Ingrīds Junghanai, the judge of the regional court of Kurzeme, to be released from office of a judge at his own wish from January 1, 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Ingrīda Junghāne, the regional court judge of Kurzeme from the office of a judge”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next draft decision - “On the release of Una Melameda from the office of a judge of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U18	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 17 November, the draft decision “On the release of Una Melameda from the office of a judge of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court” was reviewed. On the basis of paragraph 1.1 of Section 81 and paragraph 5 of Paragraph One of Section 82 of the Law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary decided to propose that the Saeima be dismissed from office a judge of Riga Vidzeme suburb court Unu Melameda due to a negative opinion received in re-evaluation of professional activities of a judge. I would like to inform that materials examined at the sitting of the Legal Commission – decisions of the Judicial Qualification Committee on the evaluation of professional activities of the judge Una Melamedas – contain limited access information in accordance with Section 5, paragraph 2, paragraph 5 of the Law on Disclosure of Information. Members of all political groups as well as non-members of political groups were given an opportunity to get acquainted with limited access materials at the Saeima Legal Commission. The Commission members supported the draft decision by a majority. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on you to vote in favour of the draft decision prepared by the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U19	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U20	Dear colleagues, As a Member of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I voted 'no' to this draft decision and will also call on you to vote 'no' today, because we can perhaps be witnesses of the fact that the Saeima, as a normal voting room, is now voting on a decision that may need to be regretted afterwards. I do not want to see a time when the legislator automatically helps to settle an unwanted judge if this judge causes any disruption or if this judge leads the case in the wrong direction - not in the direction that perhaps someone would block it. I would like to remind you that if this judge is... will be released, more than 80 criminal cases, which are currently under the control of Una Melameda, will have to be reviewed. And we can only mention which one or more of these criminal cases will have a different course and will perhaps be dealt with in a different way. And we can only mention who is who will be very happy today for the release of this judge. I do not want to take part in such an event, and I call on you, my fellow Members, to consider your vote very carefully. This is not a standard case where the Saeima releases a judge at its own will or in relation to disciplinary proceedings. This is a completely different case. The College has therefore assessed the reasoning behind the judge’s judgment. And I would like to remind you that information was updated and made public at the Council for the Judiciary on 11 May 2020 that one judge is examining on average 100 cases a year. As we can see from the available data, judge Una Melameda has reviewed 152 civil cases, 53 criminal cases, four proceedings on criminally acquired property in 2019. So there are 209 cases per year, which is twice as many as the annual average expressed at the Council for the Judiciary. Small statistics - In 2019 the judge Una Melameda reviewed 53 criminal cases by judgment; according to the printout of the Information System of the Court, there are two appealed. In addition, in 2019, the judge has reviewed nine execution cases, five criminal cases in agreement procedure, four proceedings on criminally acquired property; no decision has been appealed against. In 2019, judge Una Melameda dealt with 152 civil cases (according to the press release of the Judicial Information System), against which there are 10 appeals. In 2020, the judge Una Melameda reviewed 42 criminal cases (according to the press release of the Court of Justice), and the appeal is one. In 2020, the judge reviewed nine execution cases, 14 criminal cases agreements, three proceedings on criminally acquired property; one decision is appealed. In 2020, the judge reviewed 33 civil cases (according to the printout of the information system of the Court), five appeals. The judge has tried 297 criminal cases (according to the printout of the information system of the Court) in the composition of Riga City Vidzeme suburb court, apart from those seen in the Centre district court, 44 execution cases, 41 criminal agreement procedure, 17 proceedings for criminally acquired property, none of which have been revoked. In addition, in the composition of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court, the judge has tried 848 civil cases (according to the printout of the information system of the Court). In addition, in the composition of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court, the judge reviewed 204 cases of administrative violations, 40 cases on decisions of institutions, cases of administrative violations (according to the printout of the information system of the Court). I would also like to remind you that the judge Una Melameda was the one who took the decision on the justification of Ivars Poikan. And the fact that the President also justified the release of Ivar Poikan means that her decision was justified. I call, my fellow Members, on you once again to carefully consider your decision today and remember that it is not the ordinary vote, it is the Saeima and every Member makes a decision in accordance with his or her conscience. I call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U21	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U22	‘The Judges shall be approved by the Saeima, and they shall be irrevocable. The Saeima may revoke a judge against his will from office only in the cases provided for by law, on the basis of a decision of the disciplinary panel of judges or a judgment of the court in criminal matters. The term of office of judges may be determined by law.’ Colleagues! I quote nothing other than the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, Article 84 of the Satversme. Colleagues! We have all taken the oath, we have all said that we will observe the Constitution. I was a little surprised by the Legal Commission. Why was it surprised? Surprised for two reasons. Firstly, this Article of the Satversme makes it very clear when and under what circumstances a judge is dismissed. There is no decision of the Disciplinary Board. None! Just not, there's no criminal case. The judge... Secondly, why I was surprised - because judge Melameda has turned to the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court will either accept the case or not. So, colleagues, it's only 30 days, it's only 30 days! - wait and learn whether the Constitutional Court considers this case to be compatible with the Constitution or not compatible with the Constitution. It is not for us to interpret it, so the court will interpret it. I call on you not to step in heresies to vote against - just as I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U23	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U24	Dear colleagues, In view of what has been said, I have a question for Members of the Legal Commission. Was the vote in the committee on the removal of Judge Una Melameda from office unanimous? And if this vote was not unanimous, then I have a great request from those Members of the Commission who either abstained or voted against, now... justify its position today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U25	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U26	Yeah, I could answer Vyacheslav Dombrovskis. I am a member of the Legal Commission and I did not take part in the vote. I did not fully understand the motivation why the Legal Commission voted in favour because I have... Although I do not agree many times with Martin Bondar, it is legally true that a judge can be revoked in two cases. And I don't personally know this guy, I never live... Even though I'm a lot like a lawyer... There has never been anything in life dealing with this judge. But independence of judges is a very important part of a democratic state. In this case, I would like to emphasise that from a legal point of view, my colleague Mārtiņš Bondars very rightly points out that there are no legal preconditions for the removal of a judge from office. So you can't... we cannot create a legal precedent; it would be absolutely not according to the fundamental principles of a legal and democratic state, that we are lifting on the basis of political decisions, because the coalition has more votes or the Legal Commission has more votes. This must, however, be certain legal prescriptives. And these prefaces were not in the Legal Commission. So if the decision in the Legal Commission was political... and I from this political decision... I did not vote either as my abstentions or as my 'no', I simply did not take part in such a political decision. If there were the relevant preconditions laid down in the Constitution, where the judge can be removed from office, then there would be another story, because we'll be creating... by voting for it, let us create a precedent that is dangerous - super dangerous! - the rule of law, which means that by political decisions we can influence any court ruling that we can actually blackmail any judge, simply saying that we... We have a majority of votes and we will cancel him the next day, when we do not like him. We're just going to cancel him because we have 51 votes, despite the fact that the law lays down the conditions for entering... and they are imperative, they are not extended to translated prerequisites, so they exclude any interpretation. And the Legal Commission had an interpretation. I understand that there is a conflict within the judiciary. I do not understand the nature of this conflict. I do not understand why there is such a desire to get rid of a judge. I understand that there have been some disciplinary cases, but there are accordingly no legal cases... the reasons I did not hear from the Legal Commission, which would give me a clear belief that I would have to push the button “for”. And today, as a man who has come from the justice system himself and who has never had anything to do with a particular judge, who has studied in the Faculty of Law and visited almost all Latvian courts, I will vote against today because, voting in favour, we will violate the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. And I would call on all my fellow Members not to create this dangerous precedent. We will, in the long term, get to the situation in this way... If we take the judges to the right, to the left... and we are already so close to totalitarian regime. This would be another step in that direction. Let us not do that! I understand that 51 votes can do a lot, but at the same time let us respect our Constitution. We have promised to do so in our oath. The Constitution does not allow us to vote in favour today. I would like to combine the times, if I may.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U27	The time for your debate is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U28	So, and... In our oath we promised to observe the laws and the Constitution. And of those documents that have been issued to all 100 Members... There is no point that would be compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. And my human feeling, not opposed to any side, because I can't objectively judge the reasons that are... so my human, intuitive, feeling says there are some incomprehensible witch hunts, and it is very likely that the judge has violated something, it is very likely, but it is clear for those other 50 percent that its reasoning on the other side is also very dubious. There is no market place here, and if we want to go to the Nordic country... if we want to be a rule of law, we cannot simply do the same - because we want to or because we have a coalition treaty, a cooperation agreement - to abolish judges. And Mārtiņš Bondars pointed out very well - let's wait for the Constitutional Court's reaction. After that, we can make a decision that will thus be legally strengthened in some way. And in the past, I would recommend not to look at this issue at all. Do not vote for or against, do not look at it at this time. Wait for the result. Because we can't... I understand that many times we violate the law, but the Constitutions... in this case we violate the Constitution. The judiciary is a very serious institution, we must not start by voting to simply cancel judges, because we have such a wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U29	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U30	Good evening, colleagues! This draft decision, which is before us. Indeed, this debate, which is both from the coalition and from the opposition, raises questions. And I wanted to understand a little more about what happened in the Commission, as we have reached such a decision at all. I, too, am now... I made a distinction between the quotes mentioned by Mr Bondara. And it really is. And in essence, it is very difficult to find the reasons why we are making such a decision today. More than that. I would like to call if that is the case, as Mr Bondara said, that in a month's time there will be clarity from the Constitutional Court as well, then now we as politicians... and also the Legal Commission is dealing with such a specific interpretation. And it's like... I would put this thing together... Like the previous vote on the Minister... the approval of former Minister Jurs Pūce for... In the committee voting, although not comparable, it is some kind of order of things that has been set. And if a political group, a political group elected by the Saeima, decides and makes such a decision and there are these 10 signatures, then it must be respected. And there is also the procedure for the annulment of judges, which we all have agreed on, and it is recorded in the law, and even more so - it is also recorded in the Constitution. And this would be the case where, in particular, the order laid down in law and in the Constitution should be followed. At the moment it is not certain that its order is being followed, even more so - the Constitutional Court will assess this case in the near future. That's why my proposal... I think I can do it in accordance with the parliamentary order.... and, if such support is obtained, also a wish to the responsible - Legal - commission not to look at the case for a month. I call on the Saeima to vote in favour of bringing this draft decision back to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U31	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U32	Good evening, colleagues and also the chairman of the sitting. The debate seems to show a number of aspects at the moment. The first aspect is that, yes, in my experience (A sound break.) ... A little bit (A sound breakdown) ... the grounds for doubting the decision of the majority of the Legal Commission, as the arguments and examples put forward in this debate show that the decision has not, however, been debated. And secondly, judges (A sound break.) ... But the reason that there's something smaller in annual evaluation than someone thinks... Once... may not be the basis for the Saeima to decide on the resignation of a judge. There are many other options for how to work there and how to watch. Thirdly. If the decision of the Constitutional Court has to be awaited for 30 days, it is certain that, upon joining the proposal and claim that has already been made, the decision must be returned to the commission, it must wait for the specified time and only then look, first of all, at the further actions of the committee and then to the decision of the Saeima. Fourth. Today, the head of the Saeima basically told us... and called on the Parliamentary Secretaries to speak. It seems that this is the case in the Ministry of Justice. If the Head of the Legal Commission cannot explain anything complementaryly or respond to the arguments and doubts, justified doubts, then the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, who is probably also informed about the activities and decisions of the administration concerned, should be present here - remotely - and tell about, and argue why and what is happening, at the same time noting the proceedings that would take place with the decision of the Constitutional Court, and so on. At this point in time, I think it would be completely wrong to vote, so I will repeat and, if necessary, call again for this proposal to be referred back to the Commission, pending the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U33	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U34	Good evening, colleagues! I wanted to avoid, as I say, such disinformation, perhaps in this debate. Article 82 of the Law on Judicial Power lays down certain conditions under which a judge may be dismissed from office. And one of these points is that if he repeatedly received a negative opinion in assessing the professional activities of a judge. And in this particular situation about this judge - the Judicial Qualification Committee has twice assessed the professional activities of the judge and both times has found that the activity is unsatisfactory. These decisions of the Judicial Qualification Committee have been appealed to the Disciplinary Court, and this Court has also assessed, analysed and left these decisions unchanged. Therefore, in this particular case there is absolutely no reason to believe that this is a political decision without a legal assessment, even more so – this legal assessment has been given by the family of judges themselves, so, as I mentioned, the Judicial Qualification Committee, then the Disciplinary Court has assessed, and I would like to note that this issue has also been addressed by the Council for the Judiciary, and following the proposal of the Council for the Judiciary this issue has been addressed by the Legal Commission. Today we do this at the Saeima sitting. For my part, I can therefore say that all Members have had the opportunity to get acquainted with all the material containing elements of information which is not accessible, and at this point I would call for a vote in favour to support the majority of the members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U35	Thank you. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U36	Yeah, thank you. I will call for this decision not to be supported. I was also calling for a really waiting and even allowing the judge to judge these criminal cases, which she is responsible for, not to allow this to happen here... What is the desire to reopen these criminal cases in a completely different composition. And I would also like to say that the article mentioned by Mr Juša... Yes, so the judge must be assessed by the Judicial Qualification Board respectively, it is a regular standard procedure, and here it is that the Judicial Qualification Board evaluates decisions regardless of whether decisions have been appealed against. As we can see, this appeal is very, very little, very, very little, and this is not a question of the quality of decisions as to whether they have been withdrawn or not. Just a subjective assessment... the question of what is not related to a possible offence or disciplinary violation of a judge, this is just an assessment of the decision in subjective light, whether it is... whether it is qualitatively written or not. In this case, we cannot at present assess such a subjective view of the work of the judge. It would be understandable if it were really a disciplinary matter, it would be understandable if it were another infringement. However, in this case, honourable colleagues, please let us be cautious and maintain the independence of the judge, and do not vote, please, for such a draft decision. That will be very wrong. Let us wait, indeed, as Mr Bondara said, for the judgment of the Constitutional Court, because the judge also asked the Members of the Legal Commission, but unfortunately this decision was what we are seeing right now. I was in a minority, and I think the Head of the Legal Commission did not explain to you everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U37	Thank you. I closed the debate. But before we voted on the draft decision, Members made a proposal that the said draft decision should be returned to the responsible legal commission and that we should vote in favour of this proposal. Please activate section on procedure! Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the Release of Una Melameda from the office of a judge of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court” to be returned to the responsible legal commission! Please vote mode! On - 32, against - 47, refraining from - 1. Consequently, the draft decision has not been referred back to the commission responsible and we must vote on the draft decision at this sitting. Please call me! Before the vote, would Mr Agešina want to add something more on behalf of the Commission after the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U38	Nothing is to be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-03-PT13-2165-U39	So nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Una Melameda from the office of a judge of Riga city Vidzeme suburban court”! Please vote mode! For - 54, for - 11, for - 5. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, the Saeima Bureau has received Members Alda Adamoviča, Anda Čakša, Ojāra Ērika Kalniņa, Arvila Aseradena and Ainaras Latkovska's request to declare a break at the remote Saeima sitting on 26 November at 19.00 to 9 a.m. of this year. We also need to vote on this procedural issue. Please activate the procedure section! Please call me! Let us vote for a break at 9 a.m. on December 10th! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the members of the Saeima have supported the break. Registration of participants is still required. Registration successfully completed. Thank you, colleagues. I cut off the break at this sitting until 9 a.m. on 10 December. Goodbye. Interruption of the sitting. ( Interruption)
