ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let's start the remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 23 November 2020. On the agenda - second reading of the annual state budget and related draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U2	Good morning, colleagues! Yes, thus, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined amendments to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. Two proposals have been received. So it's 1. - the proposal from the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis. It provides for the extension of the uniform remuneration system to new categories of medical care professionals, employees of the National Judicial Medical Expertise Centre. This proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U3	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Health, Viņķelis! Please, let's vote! For - 24, for - 51, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U4	There are 2 Members' groups - Reiznieces-Ozola, Many, Bergmanis, Dūklavs, Valaiņa and Yalinska - proposal. It provides for a change in the basic reference when calculating the monthly salary of the Prime Minister, the President of Latvia and the Ministers. The budget and financial (tax) commission does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U5	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U6	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Members! Our proposal is indeed to freeze the remuneration of senior public officials - both the President and the Prime Minister and ministers - and also the representation expenses. The law provides that each year this remuneration is indexed to take account of the previous year... Two years ago... average salary, its increase. And in this situation, when we know that an extremely large number of groups in society are such that there is a substantial reduction in revenue, which, in fact, also through emergency bans, is generally denied the possibility of earning their family money and of asking for cut-off and social benefits, then in this situation, we believe that the remuneration of senior public officials should also be frozen. Mr President, because he just failed, he was seen in the budget process... because his increase in remuneration was offered for the second reading, was publicly ashamed... They already have, I understand, made their decision and asked the Saeima not to support the increase in remuneration, but all the other senior officials of the country had already been hidden at first reading and therefore had not seen the public response. This does not mean that we should slip through silence and grow this funding next year. We see in the first reading of the draft state budget law - The increase in the remuneration and representation of the Cabinet members and parliamentary secretaries is planned for 68 871. Of course, it is not money, and it is not a means of solving major public budget problems, such as medical pay or other areas where funds are still lacking, but it is a matter of solidarity, colleagues. In the first wave of the community, there were governments that set an example. For example, the Australian government reduced its remuneration by 20 percent. In the Austrian Government, each of them - one salary - donated to non-governmental organisations that helped to fight the community. It is not a question of our government having to cut its wages, it is a question of not increasing its wages in this situation, in a spirit of solidarity with society and showing that the government really understands how people are living, not what it is... not have imagined himself in the streets of Jacob and... The thick walls of Smilšu streets and other ministries, without seeing what happens behind them. I call for this proposal to be supported. This proposal provides for this payment to be frozen at this year's level. Do not use the situation where, two years ago, the average increase in remuneration was eight, nine, even 10 per cent, and note that there is a crisis situation at the moment, only when we see that the government has been able to deal with it skillfully, when the economic situation has stabilised, when the majority of society will have stability in their revenue. This would be a good signal, and I think it is very necessary in this situation, also in view of their tension, the social tension that is already visible and that will still be ahead of us. Thank you. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U7	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U8	Good morning, thank you. I have also drawn attention to this draft law at first reading and I would like to remind you that the presentation of this draft law in the budget package is linked to an increase in remuneration, at the core of the KNAB's staff. I believe that KNAB staff should and KNAB, as an institution, should really show other results. And these results, unfortunately, are not viewed by the public as serious. And in recent times scandals have also shown problems, and I think they are systemic problems that can most probably be detected in the work of KNAB. There are loud messages, but there is no result. All possible corruption transactions continue and political trade is likely to take place. Where are the results of KNAB? Where are the convictions of KNAB? And I think that when society as a whole is really in a very difficult economic situation, when people are out of work, when economic activity is reduced accordingly, when social tensions are increasing, when economic instability and tensions are increasing, predicting or not reducing remuneration for senior officials, who should have solidarity with society, is unethical. And I think it is necessary to support specifically this proposal put forward by the group of Members, only to ensure a common approach to the crisis and exit from the economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U9	Name to Member Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U10	Good morning, honourable President. Honourable Members! With regard to this proposal, Dana Reizniece-Ozola has already said our motivation, I can only join in saying that this is certainly not the moment. We remember that, last year, there was neither a community nor any threat to the economy, but at the same time, the Saeima took and frozen its wages. At the moment, there is a very different situation in which it is absolutely necessary to ask questions - or indeed it is very necessary. At the same time, I would like to say that the FAO will vote in favour of this draft law as a whole, and only because there are also such forward-looking things, I think very good things for the law enforcement bodies, now specifically for KNAB. It has to be acknowledged that the remuneration system that is currently in place in KNAB is very motivational and allows us to assess the results, not only... Anyone who is more or less involved in the process receives a certain salary, but the head of the institution will be able to appreciate those who are really doing hard, necessary and much needed things for everyone and doing them effectively and correctly. That is why we will support it as a whole, because if this, if it can be called, the first experiment of the new system will be successful, I think that next year, in the public administration, the State Chancellery will already offer to others the introduction of such a system, and now it is very necessary to build capacity precisely for all the institutions that take care of the internal security of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U11	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U12	I would remind you that this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Reiznieces-Ozolas, Dauges, Bergmanis, Dūklavs, Valaiņa and Jalinska! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 54, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U14	Yes, I therefore call on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to support amendments to the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the National Security Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U16	So the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... Yes, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has therefore examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on National Security’. No proposal has been received.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the National Security Law" at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft Act “Amendments to the Czech Lottery Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the commission responsible, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U18	Good morning, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and prepared for second reading the draft law on Amendments to the Czech Lottery Law. A total of eight proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal by the Legal Office specifying the numbering of articles and paragraphs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U20	2. - also a proposal by the Legal Office clarifying the numbering of articles and paragraphs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U22	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Identically, the numbering of the article and paragraphs shall also be technically specified. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U24	4. - the proposal by the Legal Bureau clarifies the version approved at first reading, setting out the arrangements for the distribution of the lots of successful cheques by percentage and specifying the text, without any change in substance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U26	5. is a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying the text approved in the first version of the document to be submitted to the lottery as an invoice... that a bank transfer document must also be submitted. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U28	6. - also a proposal from the Legal Office specifying points 1 and 2 of the first paragraph of Article 8 relating to the presentation of this invoice and proof of bank transfer. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U30	7. is a proposal of the Members' Group - Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis - which provides for the creation of a sectoral prize fund to be supported by the Cabinet of Ministers in addition to the cheque lottery. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U31	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U32	Colleagues! This proposal arose from discussions within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission on a number of sectors, which set out the current situation in their field due to the limitations of the community. And one of the most affected is tourism. The first wave was very heavy for the industry, and in fact it is an area where turnover has fallen by about 90 per cent, as the industry entrepreneurs themselves have mentioned. The discussion also made it quite clear that most of the proposals made by the sector and business representatives to government representatives were not beyond the Ministry of Economics. Apparently, the Ministry of Finance is the narrow neck of the bottle when the government is being discussed in various formats about the necessary support for entrepreneurs. And we see that, in the first wave as well as now, unfortunately, support comes too late, support is often insufficient and too restrictive... of which. We are now seeing: once again, the government has climbed up for the second time on the same rake that took place for the first time - by limiting the sectors that can benefit from cut-off benefits, wages, subsidies, working capitals, are, well, shot past the very many entrepreneurs who are falling through this aid bundle. But apart from these large support programmes, which are needed in this situation, I think very good ideas came from the entrepreneurs themselves, including - using a cheque lottery as one of the ways of supporting local sectors (and the most affected sectors), with the aim that part of the prize pool in a cheque lottery would be designed with the following specific objective: to stimulate the turnover of the sectors which have the most... The biggest drop. For example, in the form of vouchers or other prizes that would be used by the winner of the winning here in Latvia when travelling domestically. And that is also the point of this proposal: actually to form part of the prize fund for cheques in order to support particularly affected sectors. The next proposal provides for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to lay down, by 1 February next year, precise rules on what this prize fund would be, what would be the arrangements for awarding these prizes, which would be the areas to support and, as a result, I think we would catch two hares at the same time - make both the Czech lottery more attractive and this would be such a good support instrument for strengthening the tourism sector. I call for support for this proposal and for the next one as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U33	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U34	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, I will also call for support to be given to the motion of a group of Members, and I think it is clear to everyone at the moment that such a procedure cannot last long when people are banned from earning their income and people literally come to the Saeima to ask for permission to work under the most secure conditions. The tourism sector is also, by the way, one of those sectors that have suffered enormous losses. That is why such a proposal... Now, of course, the opposition proposal is not being supported once again, but if you do vote against it, suspect a little bit, even for a minute, that it is worth noting and perhaps putting it into one of your own... in one of my programmes, I think that we will all be very happy about this, because various models were also offered, including a model that offers people to buy, for example, a voucher that is then used in tourism services, because summer comes, and many tourist accommodations are already trying to attract customers in some way. Such a proposal... I think it's... There is nothing better than such a proposal, and it both stimulates the economy and therefore calls on everyone to hand over their cheques, and at the same time supports the tourism sector. I will also very much call on you to support this proposal, but if you do not support it today, because the coalition Treaty does not allow you to do so, please take it for your future work and, please, use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U35	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U36	The Commission did not support the 7th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 60, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U38	8 / 8 - The proposal of Members Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Dūke, Dūklava, Jalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis relates to the previous and additional transitional provisions of the draft law, laying down the procedure for implementing this proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U39	The proposal cannot be put to the vote because it was not supported 7. All the proposals have been examined.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U40	The Commission generally supported the second-reading bill. I also call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Czech Lottery Law” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 76, for - 2, for - 14. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U42	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and prepared for consideration by the Saeima in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”. A total of 20 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Earths Union, which provides for the establishment of procedures for the granting of State social support to social education educators, pre-school educators, on the assumption that they must attain 25 years of working time and that they may receive this social support sooner before reaching retirement age. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U43	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U44	Colleagues! This proposal is based on the initiative of the PIZDA, but also in the light of the positive experience of the previous government. In order to facilitate the arrangement of the school network, the previous government set up a social cushion support programme for those teachers who remained unemployed in a situation where the arrangement of the school network led to the closure of the school. It gave more motivation to local authorities to sort out school networks, it also gave more security to teachers, who, especially if they were in pre-retirement age, clearly found it extremely difficult to reorient themselves in such a short period of time, to start doing something else, and then the possibility of receiving public aid was very well appreciated. The nature of this proposal is similar, it will not necessarily have a major fiscal impact, and I will try to explain a little bit more in detail what the idea is. Pedagogues working in special education, which are pre-school teachers and sports teachers, are those areas in which teachers have a particularly high level of emotional and, at the same time, such exercise... if they have a length of work in this field, they have had more than 25 years in the profession, of which they have not been able to pursue their professional career continuously for the last five years, which means that they have spent their life in this profession and, if they are three years old, if the teacher sees that he is not able to pursue his professional career, they would be able to receive social assistance from the State. If this teacher received some other income during this period - either from a commercial activity and from income - or from reaching retirement age or trying to work elsewhere - then, of course, it would not be possible to receive such social assistance. In any event, its previous experience shows that only in emergency situations teachers, if they understand that they cannot continue to work for some important reasons, would choose this option, because in general, we already understand that teachers are responsible people and, as far as they can, they... And these are, in particular, people who have worked, and those who have worked for more than 25 years at school would be happy to continue working, and that would be only exceptional cases - either in fact this situation would make them look for another job, or they would remain without work in the network of schools, or they would really have had physical and emotional fatigue so much that they would ask for this opportunity - we therefore offer that this would be, in my opinion, also such a beautiful gesture at this time, when the tensions of the community have increased considerably for all - not only children and parents, but also for many of the educators. As I said, the estimates made by Lizda are also that this is not a costly measure, but would be very good support for this highly respected profession. I call for support for this proposal, as well as for all the other related ones tabled by other fellow Members from the opposition and also from the Group of the Greens/Family Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U45	Name to Member Edgar Kucin. ( Pause) We can't hear you. ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U46	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U47	Now we hear it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U48	Hello, colleagues! The amendments to the Education Law that are being discussed are based on the promises made during the parliamentary election in summer 2018 during the campaign to implement not only the “Conclusion”, but also the New Unity, Development/About! , Greens/Farmers' Union and National Association. If someone forgets this, then I will remind you: by concluding an agreement with the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union, we all promised to address the issues raised by LiZDA on both renewal of service pension and social support programme for special education educators, pre-school educators, sports educators, as well as salaries of pre-school educators. Therefore, most of those present should not object to the proposals made by the SACC, the ZZS Group and the Group of Members to supplement Article 14 with point 41 of the Education Act and with a new paragraph 2.1 below. And in the first case, by establishing that the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to establish the procedure for granting state social support to teachers of special education, pre-school education teachers, sports teachers, in the second case – experienced teachers of special education, pre-school teachers, sports teachers are entitled to terminate employment legal relations on a personal recommendation and in the future, without obtaining income from paid employment, commercial activity or economic activity, regardless of their financial situation, to receive state social support up to six months' average earnings. Colleagues, please support both 1. - the proposal of the ZZS, and 2. - the Group's proposal, as well as the third one, tabled by Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U49	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U50	Dear colleagues, In my opinion, this is a fact that is already known to everyone, that, in particular, pre-school teachers are at risk of burning. And we're not even talking about social... Special education for educators and sports educators. The fact that, for several years in a row, the trade union has been calling on members of the coalition, above all, because the opposition understands this issue very well... The fact that the trade union calls on the ministry to think about this problem for several years in a row shows that dialogue between the ministry and trade unions is still not good enough and of quality. This is most likely due to the fact that the Ministry does not listen to the needs of teachers. The problem that has existed for years is not solved, and the fact that we have endured this first wave of the Covide and the state budget has endured this wave, mainly thanks to pre-school educators who, at risk of their health, continued to work with groups, with children, providing their parents with the opportunity to work and earn taxes on the state budget... No way... this hard work was not noticed in any way - in no way! - even now with this budget, when it would be a great opportunity to thank these educators who took a heavy burden and continue to bear this heavy burden. Well, to be honest, such an arrogance from the coalition shows that... I don't know if there can be a coalition... are for them little children who go in the garden, no small children... I do not really understand what kind of colleagues are living in, but I think this issue should be solved as one of the first, because pre-school teachers have the right to early retirement, they have the right not to burn in their work, which unfortunately... If you study the statistics, if you study the data, then you will see that the educators are really in the first place in the burning, because the educators are burning very quickly, especially now because of the community, because they have a very, very heavy schedule of work, they need to adapt to new rules constantly and, of course, behind it, all of them are still afraid of their health and simply hope not to get sick and work further. Colleagues! Pre-school educators, special education educators, sports educators should be honored just as our doctors do, because special protection for these people is not provided. I call on you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U51	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U52	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office, colleagues. Now, in fact, this proposal shows a number of things from the trade union of educators. First thing. This calls on the government to show a positive attitude towards teachers. Yes, the previous government set up a support programme over three years because it wanted to put the school network into practice and provided a support mechanism - this scheme - for teachers who, according to very strict criteria, would be able to retire more quickly and receive state aid at the same time, so that there would be no need to ask for gifts after 25 years of life and work in the school simply because someone at this point was a school switch, which was certainly also due to objective circumstances. At the moment, the situation is slightly different. The trade union also calls on this government to show its positive attitude towards teachers. And look at what groups of teachers are invited to support in addition: pre-school educators (and we know that in a community situation pre-school educators work)... In fact, no additional national support is currently being granted to pre-school teachers. Yes, after much pressure, after long discussions and quite a certain demand, it has been achieved that teachers in general education, with the exception of pre-schools and perhaps five-year-olds, six-year-olds... works remotely, will receive some compensation for remote work, but pre-school educators are currently working in the society's situation... Both in spring and now, especially in spring, working in on-call groups... And at the moment, it is not yet expected what the situation will be, what the epidemiologists will recommend, that there will probably also be other recommendations than those currently... Pre-school teachers work in full groups. We know that the group of seniors is in the number of people at risk, and that is what Latvian epidemiologists have said, and it has also been proven scientifically. We know the average age of teachers, including in pre-schools. The situation in the community is an additional factor which the new government, either conditional on that government, must address and support. The second group is special education teachers. There, too, this age distribution is in favour of seniors. In addition to the teachers in the specialist education institution, there is indeed an additional stress, as their children's audience is certainly also among those at risk. And the third is sports teachers or sports teachers. As we know, in the community situation, sport is on the limited opportunity list, so it is clear that in the years... Educators who are three years old before retirement - so older educators - could choose to protect themselves and their health. If, three years ago, the programme was current in the setting up of the school network, then, of course, this current situation is gradually being reviewed due to two circumstances. The first one is the cow. At present, it does not matter how much students are in class, but it is important that teachers teach students. To say that the size of the class does not matter at this point in time, so the arrangement of the school network takes on a different type of approach, it should gain a more modern and appropriate approach. And the other. We know that next year we will have a different regional breakdown, and in the context of regional breakdown, the revision of the school network must also be different, with a different approach and with a more view of the larger regions. This means that the setting up of a school network cannot be a priority, and it is still falling somewhere every moment. In a situation in which people are in pain, do not need to beat twice, on the contrary, learn from previous governments and give support to pre-school educators, special education educators and sports educators, because, to some extent, in the previous programme, these educators did not participate for various objective reasons. And this program will probably not be financially ambitious, but the community... funding also allows these educators to be supported if there is a sudden increase in numbers that would be understandable for personal reasons. Once again, I call on you to understand that this proposal requires the responsibility of the government and the attitude of the government towards 'for' educators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U53	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U54	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! I would also like to call on the Saeima to support this proposal, but this is mainly about the social guarantees and safety of pre-school educators. I'd like to mention that sometime... In 2009, when there was a previous crisis, if you can say so, preschool educators... all responsibility was placed on the municipalities and said that it was a solution to the crisis and agreed with the municipalities that, in future, the municipalities would then take full care of pre-school educators. At the moment, this crisis of 2009 is already so far away that there is now a future crisis, and in this case... Here the previous colleagues have already told a great deal about the importance of pre-school teachers, however, in the current context of overcoming this crisis, and the state should think more about how we support pre-school teachers in this case. I call for this proposal to be supported, and, as Mr Kucin has already said, this is perhaps not even... this is not even a solution to the crisis, this is a proposal to sort out the system, for which most of the political parties have concluded contracts, cooperation agreements, with the education workers' trade unions and are committed to achieving this, and at this point perhaps it is the right time to do so. I call on the parliamentary colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U55	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U56	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 51, abstaining - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U58	2. - the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group, identical to the previous proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U59	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U60	3. - the proposal made by Members Papule, Goldberg and Dombrovskis is identical to the previous proposals. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U61	Members share the Commission's view. And neither can it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U62	Proposal No 4 - The proposal of Members Indicicenes and Dzintara, which provides for the addition of the third paragraph of Article 17 of the law to a new paragraph relating to the previous... the rule excluded at first reading that municipalities are obliged and condition to co-finance the maintenance of educational establishments. This educational establishment is a public benefit organisation or a social enterprise. The Commission has partially supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U63	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U64	We prepared and submitted a proposal because the first version of the draft law at first reading provided for the exclusion of this provision. In order to provide an opportunity to attend an educational institution of choice for a child whose place of residence is declared in this territory or who acquires a basic education programme at an accredited private education institution, either after his/her place of residence or outside, the municipality is required to conclude a contract in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers and to participate in the financing of maintenance expenditure of the relevant educational institution in the amount and in the manner specified by the Cabinet of Ministers. And our updated proposal is subject to a substantial condition (as opposed to the previous draft text) that this educational institution is implementing a general education programme or forms an educational environment that is not offered at the educational institution established by this municipality. And this private service provider... as a mandatory condition - also a public benefit organisation or a social enterprise. This condition, in itself, that an educational institution is a social enterprise or a public benefit organisation, presupposes that it is not just a business project and a private business, but it is in the public interest and the specific needs of these groups of society. I can stress that these programmes may also be different from municipal programmes and are particularly necessary for children who are particularly talented, as well as for children who need special, inclusive education or some different methods of implementation, and that I think this would only be welcome. As at present, parents may also choose to go to a municipal or private education institution. In medicine, too, we are in favour of maintaining private medical institutions, as they say, to the extent that citizens choose to use these services, and at this stage of primary education, it is very important for us to maintain this opportunity to develop, because children and parents choose the best, and this would also be such an additional democratic opportunity for this, to say, funding, which is also, in a sense, the contribution of personal income taxpayers from their families to the municipal budget... make it possible to select the educational establishment which they consider to be the most appropriate. This proposal has also been discussed and slightly changed in the Commission, with the exception of this provision on a specific, different environment and adding other social conditions, as we say, to target groups, who should study at these educational establishments if they receive this additional support from the municipality, and included in the Commission's proposal. I call for this proposal to either abstain or vote against and support the next one - 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U65	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U66	Colleagues! Both this and the next proposal had a very wide-ranging debate at the Commission meeting. Given the desire of the authors of the proposal to provide better quality education for children and to motivate the private sector to participate actively in the educational process, it is clear that the substance of these proposals is in fact to re-allocate public and municipal funds in favour of private schools. Both the Latvian Municipal Union and the LIZDA have pointed out this, which also understand that the transfer of already limited resources from municipal schools to private schools will further reduce the quality of municipal schools and their education. Colleagues, here is the one thing that needs to be understood – it is not just about the principle of “money follows a child”. The money provided from the state budget logically goes to the remuneration of the educators in which... in which school the child is studying. But this is about the fact that a municipality has a private initiative in addition to the schools it has set up... OK, has public benefit and social company status, it's... is perhaps an argument if we understand that these are schools that play a socially important role... However, it is a private initiative which, in addition to municipal-funded education institutions, is established in the territory of the municipality, and if parents want to send their children there, then the municipality is obliged not only to provide this funding, which is the remuneration of teachers provided by the state, but also to pay part of the maintenance costs of these schools from its already limited resources. This means that their own schools will have less money. Well, I am not talking at all about that special situation, that the country continues to make municipalities poorer. This year's draft budget is no exception. We know that the personal income tax rate is being redeployed to the detriment of local governments. This is another way of imposing additional financial burdens on the municipal shoulders. This means that we will leave those children in public schools, in municipal schools, who will not be able to pay, who will now be forced to learn there under even worse conditions, because municipalities may probably not have enough money. The idea may be good, but the performance is unacceptable, in my view, by so openly lobbying private schools at the expense of local governments. If the state wants to support private school initiatives, it is not denied. The state can set up a specific programme to support such schools, but what the authors of these proposals are doing at the moment is not supporting new initiatives, but supporting them at the expense of the municipalities, and this is not to be supported. I call on you to vote against this proposal. And also against the next proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U67	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U68	Colleagues, I, too, call for this and future proposal not to be supported. Let me explain why. First of all, these private schools are not new, they have been in place for several years. And so far, that's the order in which... Of course, without the support of the municipality, it is very difficult or almost impossible to have such schools by nature and they are only created because they have this support from the municipalities. But that's the order in which it always happened, but it's... these schools must also be part of a common school network, some common planning vision for the education system in each individual area. And, of course, these schools that have formed it, and indeed, Latvian-wide success stories have emerged, but it's always... These forms and amounts of aid also... it has always had some kind of discussion, dialogue between the municipality and this school, like... Every school in every administrative territory - it is an autonomous function of the municipality, how they organise education work, education infrastructure, and it must always find some balance. This balance is mixed with these proposals. And call it an autonomous function anymore... it would be very difficult, because it was autonomous so far, when the municipality had the opportunity to create a dialogue, there were opportunities to discuss the issue in some way, to discuss the extent, to understand how it all goes into the common education system, how it goes together with the development of the state education system. In this case, it's... all these talks are being conducted, these schools simply send an invoice and get some financial amount from the municipality, which I think... its approach as such is not correct. These schools have been, they will continue to be, but such a statutory function, a new function in essence... If a State imposes such a function and considers it to be absolutely correct and good we are, then the State must also pay out that function from its budget. And these costs are easy to calculate, and then the state also has to take responsibility. Otherwise, there is something new, creative on the side of the country, and, please, who will implement it? There is no money in the state budget. Oh, right now, the municipalities have to do it. This approach is not sustainable; it is absolutely wrong. I call for this proposal not to be supported and, nevertheless, for a systemic approach to public administration, because in this way we are simply destroying it... with things like this, we're ruining it because, imposing... Everybody doesn't... Municipal budgets are already not in size... This year, municipalities have very much been removed, as well as having new functions, this is one of the essences that is continuing. And, in my opinion, this approach is not to be supported. The pupils will remain, they will not disappear anywhere, but at least in administrative areas, this discussion will nevertheless be of substance, and these pupils will be much more involved in the development of the education system in each administrative area. At the moment, for some reason, they have been excluded from the field, they have a safety cushion, and it is stipulated by law that the municipality pays the maintenance bill for these educational institutions, but no such... we do not achieve this form of cooperation. I call for support not to be given to both this proposal and the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U69	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U70	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. It's like an innocent proposal - to support children, regardless of which educational institutions and what kind of educational institutions... in the view of the founder... the parents of the children have chosen. And yet, if we look at the systems that this government is doing at the moment, then we see that the National Association is very, very much lobbying the private school sector not only with such a proposal, but also by providing that the state will pay for the purchase of teaching aids, certain teaching aids, for public money. At the same time, pre-school or municipal educational institutions do not receive such support... especially at pre-school level. I have a question for the National Union - do you have any such systemic proposals... because the previous amendments to the Education Act were also adopted by most or most of them in an urgent manner... Do you want to show you with such fast, as if hidden and individual elements in supporting the private school network clearly and clearly that the quality of municipal educational institutions and their education is falling? Does this, by undermining the institutions of education set up by municipalities and also by the state in financial terms, pay off in terms of prestige? Is it still your lobby, knowing what and how the founders of private schools are? Yes, as if it were an innocent proposal, knowing that the list of these schools also includes private educational institutions of religious denominations. It's a very good cover. And yet I call on you not to support this proposal, nor the next one, in defending the educational institutions established by the local authorities in the current system, and I call on the state to call on the state! - to create a special programme, as Dana Reizniece–Ozola said, a special programme using public funds to support private educational institutions, then this system would be visible, transparent, open and should not be talked about hidden purposes or hidden, possibly lobbying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U71	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U72	Dear colleagues, This proposal, which is included in the Commission's next proposal with minor modifications, is, in my opinion, very important, but we should build on this discussion not only specifically on this proposal, but also on why these independent schools, which are founded by civil society and which our colleagues are now very keenly calling in the debate private schools, are needed. They are not just private schools; they are not private schools in the classic sense. We are not talking about schools whose main purpose is to bring profits to the founders. We are talking about schools that have been set up as public benefit organisations or schools of social enterprises to ensure different approaches to education methods and programmes to create different and diverse schools in our country, which is an integral part of the education systems of developed countries. These schools provide not only material and methodological diversity, but also, for example, a more inclusive environment for children with special needs, and yes, some of these schools are also schools founded by religious organizations, which in itself is not bad. It also provides a slightly different programme, a slightly different approach, and provides a variety of ideas, including, for example, free schools or the so-called Waldorf schools, which are also on this list. We are talking about a very small number of schools, and I will remind you of the history of the idea or proposal. Previous 12. - There has already been a debate in the Saeima, and already this article was included in the Education Law, and it was because in the future after the transitional period municipalities should co-finance these schools. Then it was... There have been attempts to remove this verse several times. Last year, I remember, precisely in the context of the budget, although this has only a conditional link with budgetary legislation, there was also an attempt by the opposition to remove this paragraph if I did not make a mistake, and also by Mrs Papule, and then again this year we came to the Commission to reformulate and put it back, because there was, in fact, also an attempt to get it out of it this time. There are many municipalities in Latvia that are very diligent and, I would say, quite consciously finance different schools in their territory, and there are few municipalities that have some ideological or other difficulties with this. And I would say that sometimes it is precisely these bad ideas, or this attempt to lead everything to a lower common denominator, to a more primitive system where everything is the same and all children are treated like at the factory - like the same pieces... It's just this... This attitude takes precedence when it comes to budgets, money and development, and it is very good that, however, there were quite a number of colleagues who saw this added value in these schools, who also saw the substance of the issue that we are not talking about private schools, but about schools founded by civil society, and who nevertheless offered this alternative, an alternative proposal, which I hope will also be supported. At least I call on you to support proposal 5. This four. - we do not support the proposal because 5 was added to another very important point, and also to children from socially disadvantaged families who themselves... whose parents cannot afford them access to these schools themselves, these children should also have a place in these schools. So I call for support for proposal 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U73	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U74	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, ( Pause) On the contrary, on the contrary, it is a hasty attempt, using the fact that, at the same time, the budget procedure must look at an extremely large number of issues, including, among these issues, changes affecting the very long-term work of the Education, Culture and Science Commission and the Saeima. I would remind you that the obligation for local authorities to co-finance these private educational institutions, which carry out... with public benefit status, so not with profit, but with public benefit status, which is very, in fact, so few educational institutions... This decision was taken in the ordinary legislative process on this subject in three readings. I remember, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science also had a very wide-ranging debate, with the participation of all parties, both school representatives, representatives of local governments and representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science. We also debated this in the sittings of the Saeima, and it was decided in these three readings that this obligation was imposed on the municipality by 2020. Last year, looking at the budget for 2020, as Mrs Golubeva mentioned, there were attempts to delete this provision. At the time, a compromise was reached that we would not be implementing in 2020, but then in 2021, let us begin to do what Members have decided. This year, we come back to the same point: there is once again a discussion about the budget and in the budget package, we see an attempt at this rule, which has been very widely debated at this time, so quickly... give up the budget under this urgency procedure. In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science on this, in contrast to the time we decided on this proposal, the opt-out was, in fact, dealt with in one of the extraordinary sittings convened during the inter-session, one of the inter-sessions if. After all, however, for this... There has also been a lot of reasoning and debate on this issue within the coalition, and this proposal, which we tabled with our colleagues, was further supplemented, now as a compromise text... added a number of conditions, namely that such a programme is not offered by the municipality in a given area and that at least 10 per cent of the social groups in need of special support are offered free of charge in schools - this is a compromise that is currently being proposed as a commission version. Colleagues, I am asking you very much to be correct and also to understand that our decisions have some succession. Those who we have already decided to support and who should have received support today are looking at us. Let's not let them down. On this proposal, as decided by the Commission, I call for a 'no' vote or a abstain, and the next one - 5. - support the budget and financial (tax) commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U75	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U76	Hello, honourable Members! Co-financing of a private initiative from a public money source is a clear and principled intention, but it is not an abstract truth. The truth is always concrete. This proposal does not require money from the right wallet and at the right time. I would support further co-financing of private schools from the government budget, but now that the government intends to reduce the distribution of personal income tax between municipalities, when the Saeima recently commissioned municipalities to finance the provision of remote schooling, to commission another financing... funding for municipalities would not be correct. This would mean that, where sources of funding are already smaller than neighbours, where there is a lack of money to provide benefits to the population in the regions, to launch yet another project would be to increase the gap between quality of life in different regions. I think that this task, this intention, which has now matured for Members of different political groups, will wait for its future. I call for the source of funding to be reviewed once again, from which money will be received, in order to provide assistance to the implementers of new private schools, rather than now, in circumstances where we cannot afford to do so, to put even more care on the part of the local authorities for additional funding when launching this specific, new project. That is why I will not support this proposal, nor will I support proposal 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U77	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U78	Dear colleagues, Indeed, there was a very long debate on this proposal at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, where even for one moment it began to look like an Education, Culture and Science Commission, not a Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. I have a number of reservations to this proposal, both conceptually and on this technical execution. First of all, colleagues, I think it is absolutely clear that this type of proposal will weaken municipal educational institutions and reduce, inevitably reducing the quality of education for those students who study in municipal institutions. I think it is absolutely clear, colleagues, that when we move a student from a municipal institution to this private school or some school, there are at least two things going on. First. Thanks to the not quite thought-out "money follows the student" system, this targeted grant money goes out of this school and goes to a private institution. As a result, the teachers' remuneration fund is decreasing for this local authority. That's one. Two. Now it's... It is a government policy to require that the municipality co-finance their private school. In other words, implement something similar “money follows”. Do you offer the municipality something to reduce the maintenance of your school? Do you think that if we move one student from a municipal school, then the maintenance costs of this school are reduced in some way? Well, of course not, colleagues. The second point is that proposals of this kind run counter to the government's own policy, because the governments themselves... What we hear about school policy is the consolidation of schools. We hear that there are too many schools to consolidate schools and so on. But then you are doing exactly the opposite with this type of proposal. You encourage school dropout, and more need school creation. Well, that's... Well, I'm out of discussions with the Commission... I have the impression that the proposers live in some parallel world, where the volume of resources for municipalities is in some way unlimited, that municipalities can co-finance absolutely anything in any way to promote any of their invented goals. The third point, colleagues, was that it was said here that, behold, they were not private schools, but social enterprises and so on. I have at least two things to say here, colleagues. Firstly, nothing in this framework will prevent a fundamental and fundamental private company from registering as a public benefit organisation, a social enterprise, but from continuing to act as a private company. If you really want to fix it, raise this ratio from 10 to 50 percent, to 100 percent. Well, then, colleagues, it would be possible to believe something. Otherwise, we find it enough for a private institution, which, for example, has a group standard size of 10 pupils, to accept only another student in order to have those 10 percent, and to get guaranteed municipal funding for all 11 pupils. Go on, colleagues. In general, private schools as such will inevitably promote both student segregation and society segregation. It is a much longer and more fundamental conversation, colleagues. But, for example, in Finland (and I will remind you that the Prime Minister and several politicians of this coalition have repeatedly stated that we are going to the Nordic countries), there are no private schools in Finland, colleagues. And Finland's policy on school matters is that each school is as good as any other school. Whether in the countryside, in the city, in the capital, or somewhere else where all children are offered equal educational facilities. Yes, not doing some chosen box or private school or so. Dear colleagues, I have another point. I will then say this to the next speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U79	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U80	Colleagues, I would like to add a little bit to what Mr Dzintara said about having, however, put this determination into law and, of course, you are absolutely right that its debate was long... There was a long and thorough debate, the Saeima's vote was also on the border, there was no such great consensus on this issue, and it is not for nothing that we are returning to this issue every year. And now I also believe that these societies (in various forms established), schools - they will stay anywhere, they will not disappear. At the moment, they are financed from municipal budgets too, but their order is the same. Well, of course, the school director is not pleased to go to the municipal council, defend this school in exactly the same way as absolutely all other schools do. Each other school in the municipal education system must go, defend, show in the education administration, why this school is needed, what is its future development perspective. It is in this way that the Council also comes to a decision - to support, not to support. It's so known, well... account should also be taken of public spending. In the present case, this phase, with amendments to this law, is simply excluded. If somewhere... and, of course, I think that the fact that the Ministry of Education and Science is moving this proposal will change this system back, also shows that, I think, any professionals involved in organising the structure of education administration understand that this will be a real problem at the moment when it is legally established that you get it - just because you are.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U81	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U82	Yes, colleagues! Well, then go on. The fact that the government and the ruling coalition are proposing this co-financing approach. But all its licensing, colleagues, works only in one direction: you propose to solve problems, problems at national level, asking local authorities to co-finance it, but no additional means at all. But if you, fellow Members, the ruling coalition, think that municipal co-financing or how... is some new Latvian economic perpetuum mobile... and the state in general financial... With some infinitely deep pockets that can be done to finance anything, then something different than taking responsibility for it is hard to look at. If you, fellow Members, are such a great fan of this co-financing of municipalities, then, please give an example, namely, for co-financing by the state! But why does the Ministry of Education and Science refuse to co-finance children’s holiday? So we have all the decisions that reduce the government's income... The proportion of income they receive from personal income tax - then the government shows an absolutely different attitude, an absolutely different example, colleagues than what they demand from the same municipalities. So if those who are the authors of this proposal really want to help very clearly selected social enterprises, schools, then you have a donation policy, colleagues, and you have funds from the state budget. And I have a call for you then to address those priorities in the same way - with really subsidies from the state budget and donation policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U83	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U84	Dear colleagues, I cannot support this, proposal 4, and also proposal 5 for two reasons. Without repeating the arguments that have already been made in today's debate, I simply want to stress that the government is proposing three things at the same time in this budget. First. The government takes away part of the income of municipalities once again. This is a consistent strategy. Second. It removes part of its social responsibilities and responsibilities. And the third. Additional social responsibilities are imposed on municipalities in the field of social protection. Well, that is simply not fair, because if you want to have more responsibilities for the municipalities, also give extra resources, but you are doing something completely the opposite. And I... I would like to respond to Mrs Golubeva with all due respect for these arguments, but nevertheless, these proposed solutions will not work in this way, even if 10 per cent and so on. In fact, this proposed solution will deepen social inequalities, deepen the gap between parents who have sufficient resources to provide their children with a much less normal education even in the current circumstances, and those parents, above all those who are disadvantaged, but not just those who do not have such opportunities in principle. For in this situation, we really must, now, stick to the principle of solidarity, help the weakest first. And that's the weakest thing about municipal schools, but we want to take away some of the funds for municipal schools and give them back... Well, how not to call it, but in essence they are elite institutions, they are for the chosen ones. And, as we would not try to implement such a principle of social justice by determining who will be in its chosen circle, no matter what I say, it will deepen their social injustice. That is why I cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U85	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U86	Good morning, honourable fellow Members. This question... Here you can already mention some certain regularity - the regularity in that a specific decision is made, incorporated into the draft law, say, the proposal, but does not follow the funding. It's a regularity. and chronic regularity unfortunately already in the length of several governments and different parliamentary terms, even now. Yes, I completely agree with many of the previous speakers that no funding is provided for loading this obligation on local authorities. I would perhaps like to name a few of these figures very specifically, which represent a reduction for municipalities in the revenue side. Ķegums region was reduced by 9.31 per cent compared to this year; Viļāni municipality -7.99 per cent, Zilupe municipality -7.92 per cent, Cesvaine municipality - 7.84 per cent, Ērgļi municipality - 7.74, Mērsrags municipality - 7.61 per cent. What does that mean? This means that in absolutely all areas the responsibilities of each municipality, that is, the maintenance of kindergartens, school maintenance, roads, communal farming, transport, benefits for people... are reduced, here's about this percentage... That's what I'm saying. for seven, nine pairs. And something else significant. Unfortunately, it must be admitted that Latgale, where there is the biggest reduction, is practically... not practically, but in all municipalities this... the share of revenue in excess of four per cent. I had been presented at the time for the second reading that the reduction in municipal revenue should not exceed four per cent. That, in my view, would be the minimum. The biggest reduction that could be allowed this year. This was rejected. Then I must say, well, I would support this proposal. Yeah, it's also sympathetic to me, acceptable. These Christian schools would need funding. But then it must be ensured that the government guarantees co-financing in municipal budgets. There's a completely opposite scene here. And by the way, I was surprised: when Latgale Sub-Commission called on the Ministry of Finance to speak on this issue - municipal funding in Latgale - the Minister of Finance did not find time, spoke out... more important tasks for him. What, then, are some more important tasks for him? I would ask Members to look at this proposal in the context of the municipal budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U87	The name of Member Evia Papulei for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U88	Madam President, Colleagues! Well, the debate shows that this is indeed a supposedly innocent proposal, and the debate finds increasingly innocent arguments. In fact, Mr Dzintara, the discussion shows that this is not a systemic approach, because in various ways, basically hidden as separate points, the Saeima is voting in favour of special support for private educational institutions. And they call private educational institutions, and the name can come up with another, but basically the founder is neither the state nor the municipality, which is also the state. Well, in fact, the fact that there is no single system - as is already the case. Mr Dzintara, the Ministry of Education and Science already has a special programme for financing private educational institutions, which can be used not only for salaries, the purchase of teaching resources or funding, but also for this degree of maintenance. The country does not need to create a new programme - there is an existing programme - but rather to provide additional funds. I cannot agree with this proposal on the grounds that you just rejected a financially unbeatable... Either, it is not too financial to propose support for social cushions for certain groups of teachers. But this programme will cost you two million that you want from municipal funding. Please finance openly from the State! Members will then also be able to support such an approach, understanding that it would also be possible for social different groups to study at a private educational establishment if it provides better access or a better, more relevant quality of education. Give these two million to the national programme, and we will all support it as a system approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U89	The name of the Member, Maria Golubeva, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U90	Yes, honourable colleagues! We have heard quite a lot today of arguments that, in my opinion, ignore some of the basic things that concern policy planning, including education policy planning. First of all. Education is fundamental to the function of municipalities in the Republic of Latvia. And municipalities at school level also provide this education. The fact that municipalities can do this not only through some simple approach, but through a slightly more subtle and diverse approach - this in no way alters the fact that municipalities are responsible for providing education and for educational institutions. If we find, after one year or two or three years, that there is a real demand, for example, from parents who cannot afford to pay for this programme themselves, but want their children to join these schools, and that they will not be able to accept 10 percent of the children whose parents will want it, then it will be a clear signal to the municipality to make a significant change in their schools, such as licensing a similar programme or the same programme in one of their schools, so that there is more. This will enable local authorities to see what demand is there for citizens, what programmes they want to see for their children. This is not necessarily due to the fact that the country has to say everything in front of you immediately, how much you need such programmes, how much you need other programmes. This is due to the fact that we are giving this opportunity to develop independent, new programmes that provide something more pedagogy or create something of their own environment that is more inclusive to children, who unfortunately did not create this inclusive environment in municipal schools. And then we look at how big demand is, and then one year later, two or three will also be able to correct this policy in their own municipalities and license similar programmes. I think that this is a way to innovate in our education, and also on the ground. Innovations related to people's vision of their children's education, not from above - some large range of experts or ministries...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U91	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U92	Yeah, thank you. Dear President, First. Listening to what Mrs Golubeva said, you cannot disagree now, because in theory, in some ideal world, everything is absolutely right. But we live in the real world! Yes, it is a duty of the municipalities, but with this amendment you are imposing additional obligations and at the same time not providing additional resources, but, on the contrary, you are withdrawing resources at the same time. Should there not, however, be some consistency between responsibilities and resources? And the second. Why do municipal schools not license similar programs? It's very simple: there's no resources. And when you license such programs in private schools, you take away these resources for municipal schools. Where will the teachers who are able to work and implement such highly advanced programmes come from? I think that a large part will be taken directly from municipal schools. And unfortunately, it's general... the general problem is a lack of resources. In fact, you offer to concentrate those resources, those of the best educators in some selected schools, and the situation of the other students will get worse. Yes, if within two or three years it turns out that those other schools are going to suffer, then you can't fix anything. Because what the children will lose over these years will not be able to recover. I am looking purely from a practical point of view. Because, in fact, you need to be guided once again by solidarity, but these very limited resources need to be shared among everyone as much as possible. I cannot, therefore, support these very progressive and liberal arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U93	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U94	I would remind you that the Commission partially supported and incorporated this proposal into the Commission's proposal. I would like to call for a vote with no or no votes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U95	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the motion submitted by Members Indicicenes and Dzintara! Please, let's vote! For - 1, for - 84, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U96	5. - a proposal from the Commission, which includes in part proposal 4, supplemented by a condition that at least 10 per cent of the learners involved in the training process come from the social target groups established by the Cabinet of Ministers and whose training fees are borne by the educational institution concerned. And it's not... Unlike the previous proposal, there is no more reservations about different provision of the learning environment. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U97	Thank you. Members have applied for a debate. We will continue the debate on this proposal after a break. Registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U98	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. So on the agenda - the bill "Amendments to the Education Act". Debate on 5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Ilze Indrickson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U99	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that already in 2018, the Saeima supported such a proposal or, I could say, include in the law a provision on support for schools founded by social enterprises and associations. And the rule of the law was suspended, and the time for its entry into force was postponed several times, and it was not implemented last year. I think, however, that is... This provision is very important to maintain, and it is not new to the contrary to what my colleague said earlier that it is something new. This has already been in fact debated several times and already two years ago it was decided, simply in this legislative process, this provision was removed from the budget package. It could be said that it was an initiative to try to get rid of this rule again. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that already very many municipalities really co-finance these private education institutions, which are not private business by their very nature, but these social enterprises and schools set up by public benefit organisations are social, so that public schools most often established by their parents can use such an educational institution and provide such education to their children as they would like. And they are fundamentally different from those private educational institutions that we could consider to be a source of profit, a purely private education institution where a lot of money is key. But these municipalities, which are already supporting these institutions, could be said to be private educational institutions, there are many. And more than a thousand students are already getting this part of the co-financing from municipalities. Only a few municipalities have now (according to the information available to me, there are 18 municipalities each of 65 students) refused to support these social, perhaps public schools, and they do not. In my opinion, it is precisely this, whether it is permanence or the confidence that this support will continue and will not be reviewed from year to year, and it will not be such a political decision or such a decision of every election to continue this support or to continue... It also has such confidence in both pupils and their parents to be able to continue their education at these educational establishments and to receive appropriate support from their local authorities. These parents, who have founded these schools, are very often also involved in the work of schools themselves, very actively, one could say, invest both their leisure time and resources in the development of these educational institutions. And I think that such schools usually also have... It could be said that not only the quality conditions for education, which are also one of the most important conditions for parents to spend their children in these schools, but also common values, common opportunities for creating this school environment as they see best for their children. And the schools that are guided by these common values are also those where public interests are actually pursued, and this is not a private business with the aim of obtaining... as the first condition - to make a profit. That's the big difference... it is precisely the difference between social enterprises and public benefit schools from those business schools, which may have been referred to by several Members in these discussions as a business project. The key to just money coming. Not at all. The other thing I want to draw attention to is that children are not transferred anywhere. It was said that they would be transferred from municipal schools. No, it's not. These parents and children choose these schools rather than be transferred, and they are already studying there. And the fact that this support will be provided in real terms, not just on paper at the moment, will not increase, well, you could say... It will not be that all children will go somewhere else from municipal schools right now. This free competition in terms of quality, and in terms of these school environment, better learning environment, too, is only a quality driver and also gives parents the freedom to choose, because they are part of this municipality. I would like to remind you that the municipal funding... Also, the calculation of financial equalisation takes into account each age group - and also school-age children. In my opinion, implementing and supporting this proposal would not lead to inequality, but to equal treatment of all children who are in this municipality and who choose to study at the educational institution where they are best placed. This would ensure exactly the same opportunities for these children. No social enterprise can be assessed, as it could be said, having artificially acquired this status, because there are certain criteria to be met and certain requirements to obtain this social enterprise status, and argue that now all ordinary businesses will pretend to be social enterprises, there is no place, and this is inadequate. The most important thing, however, is, in my opinion, the quality of this education, the possibility of democraticly, freely choosing where parents want this service, and that this funding is, of course, from the local government (the sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U100	(Sound rupture) ... the name of Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U101	Dear colleagues, Continuing the discussion on this subject... Here, as a fellow Member has already said very well - well, there really is the theory and practice of that. And I don't have any surprise here that, well, it's a misunderstanding of practice coming from those who have previously worked mostly on a theoretical board, but I'm really surprised that it's also coming from those colleagues who have previously worked very practically in municipalities. I even have a question... I am even interested in how these colleagues will then be able to look at their colleagues in those municipalities in the direction and support of proposals of this kind. So if we talk about practice, colleagues, its practice and the facts are that almost all municipalities in our country (with a few exceptions) are actually on subsidy, they receive subsidies from the municipal financial equalisation fund, from the state, and this does not at all indicate any very good financial situation. The fact is two, colleagues. The quality of education in our country is very unequal, especially in the regions. There is a huge difference between the average marks of central exams between cities and regions, fields. The fact is three, colleagues. Of course, those pupils, those children are either transferred, or those children have previously been studied in local authorities, or these children could be studied in local authorities. That's why we're talking here about children coming from Mars or not being moved in any way, yes, well, that's... I don't know how to get to some sort of idea. Next, colleagues, please arrange your own, so say politics as such! I appeal to the ruling coalition. Why then happens when it comes to municipal schools, then your rhetoric is that there are too many schools, counting on their number of children, and that municipal schools should consolidate what schools should close down, but when it comes to private schools, about several schools, then - not. Then we are not talking about consolidation here, then there is innovation and diversity, and so on. Well, it happens, colleagues, such a rather significant inconsistency, so that we do not say twofold. Several municipal schools - close, several private schools - innovations and diversity, and everything good. Well, we need either that or that, colleagues. Go on. With regard to the same obligation to co-finance the municipality. Once again, what means, colleagues? How will its municipalities co-finance its private institutions? Is there a grant to state-owned municipalities from a targeted grant? No, no! For the place where they come is specified (It is not clear to hear.) ... what many of you often call populism. If you oblige someone to do something, to finance it, but without any understanding or idea of where the funds come from, then it is the purest populism. What then is this different, colleagues, from the laws, from several still promising funding, but to whom is this funding never granted; where is there no idea where that funding will come from? Why? But what the government does... Once again, the municipality reduces the amount of available financial resources, which is significantly reduced by taking five percent of income from personal income tax. This is a very significant reduction, colleagues. The country itself refuses, for example, to co-finance lunch. It offers co-financing to municipalities, but refuses co-financing itself. Isn't that a huge duality, colleagues? Ask yourself... Especially those who are strong in theory ask themselves: If we did not have municipalities in the country, we would not have any. - would there be only a government budget to whom you would then be charged this obligation to co-finance private institutions? Well, would you give it to Mars or what? Because it is quite clear that you were told by the Minister of Finance that there would be no such funds in the state budget. Then it's the next populist direction for you - well, let's give the municipalities no idea where this money comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U102	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U103	Yes, colleagues! There is an understandable desire to develop a modern education system, but I would like to remind you once again that already these support mechanisms are in place in municipalities and that many of these good, nice schools, which are so much talked about, are already being financed from the local budgets. However, I will try to illustrate the situation. If there are five educational establishments in the administrative territory and everyone wants to become modern, and there is such a private initiative and also such a cool school with good success, it joins as the sixth school. All of these, as one, are common education... the education system of the administrative territory is part of a joint fight for funding, goes, justified - why and then what its specific programmes will be. Perhaps municipal schools, where something else is not in place, are going to need funds for the technical base - the same Internet resource, IT system provision that it needs so much. Just like this private student does. And then, when you see the possibilities, it comes to the best solution so that all sides are satisfied. In this case, this provision of the law will mean that there will be five schools that will continue to justify their necessity and compete for these development funds, funding, and that there will be schools that will simply receive it automatically, because the law has said that these schools will have to be and that these schools will be financed from the municipal budget. And in this way - Mrs Indicice mentioned the promotion of competition earlier - I think this would be a distortion of competition, because the fact that local authorities have the possibilities to finance is also the best mechanism, and such a rule of law... The existence of the norm in the law can also create a situation where municipalities will also be forced to finance schools that are included in neither the local education system, the education system in the administrative territory, nor any general education system in the state. In my opinion, it is precisely this appeal that the Ministry of Education and Science, too, does not explicitly support this proposal, of course, and that is good, but such a mandatory approach is not to be supported. That's exactly competition between municipalities... the local government could get worse among schools, not in the best direction. The current order is, in my opinion, enough, this school goes... and also receives support. So far, the fact that you have to listen to the accusations about the fact that it is difficult to argue and maybe not at all they are heard... And maybe that money isn't that big, maybe you should look at the other side of the medal, maybe there's just no money here to pay private school. And maybe other statutory tasks must also be fulfilled. That includes, which we voted here a couple of weeks ago on amendments to the Education Law, which will once again represent an additional burden for local authorities: how to provide all educational institutions with these new technologies... other than small money. And at the end of the day, we are now having an additional burden with these amendments to the law, which automatically, without discussion, make it possible for these schools to have money. You automatically say that absolutely all these schools without any further analysis are good, excellent and that they will have to be. In my opinion, the current system already shows that there are a whole series of really good private schools, which, with good results, show themselves to the best of them, and of course, as I said earlier, not only their presence is the support of the municipality... Municipalities have invested a great deal of work to ensure that such schools are located in their administrative territories, supporting these societies, non-governmental organisations, all who initiate such schools. But there are, of course, cases where municipal support is not provided and there is, of course, an important justification for this. In this case, the financial tensions in municipal budgets are high enough for such a proposal to be very unthinkable. That is why I am calling at least for our abstention in this proposal, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U104	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U105	Thank you. Madam President, Colleagues! Well, the debate would probably have a different nature or a different context if education as a whole had the necessary funding not only in accordance with legislation but in accordance with the needs based on practice. And now, listening to the debate and what colleagues have said, if there were a real wish, not just a form and hiding behind, for example, children with special needs or children from disadvantaged families, then this funding would simply have been allocated from the state. Moreover, when reference is made to national policies, to progressivity and many such things. Please provide funding, including for such a need from the country, and everyone will only support it. Once again, as my fellow Members have said, it is not really a welcome approach if we are talking about such a sensible, unified system. On the one hand, local authorities have set high criteria, the number of children in schools, and so the school network should be reduced and schools closed. On the other hand, the municipality must support a numerically small school, even if it is social... social benefit school or otherwise, but with a very, very (compared to the number of municipal schools to be closed) small pupils. Well, where there's proportionality here, where there's reasonableness here, even in shaping a single education network policy... in approach? Two million for a relatively small number of pupils. This is not a pragmatic step! This is an artificial... well, I still argue that it could also be a lobbying decision. That is first. And then. If we are talking about the quality of education. Currently, municipal schools are not equipped with higher quality indicators, so if there were bad indicators, bad places in ratings, many complaints, then the educational institution is closed. No, it is a figure that again does not apply to a certain proportion of private educational institutions at this point. And, by the way, those educational institutions that will receive this funding... It would be better from the state than from the municipality. It seems that there are no best schools in ratings and that there are no specific achievements in the quality of education... And there is hardly any reason for this to be related to the presence of special children or, God does not give, to socially disadvantaged groups, which some also mention as a cause every moment. No, no! These schools are not in such figures. But why, if we talk about state support for new innovative approaches, this proposal does not make it easier for those children who are in education? They are also taught by parents, and also for those children, parents have chosen the form of learning in their interesting way, as the colleagues who have just mentioned here have said about the proposal. This decision cannot be justified if it does not come from State funding. The country would give extra money to the education system at this point, and then there would probably be fewer discussions and fewer accusations about unthinking... or, either, a certain concealment behind drawn arguments that are, by their very nature, speculative. I call for these decisions not to be supported at this point and rather to support the system that was voted on a few years ago. Although it is not really proportionate or equal, it is, however, a step-by-step! - transition to municipal investment opportunities in private education. I call for once again not to support but to create a single system or for public funding to be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U106	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U107	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U108	We do not see you, Mrs Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U109	Yeah, I'm trying to... You see now, huh? Colleagues! Continuing the discussion, there were several arguments that everything we said in support of this idea of schools set up by public benefit and social enterprises - that all this is just a theory that has no connection with practice. But here was said several times about some mystical two million if we support this proposal. I would like to point out that, at the moment, where municipalities refuse to co-finance pupils in such schools, we are talking about around 65 students and on average we are talking about around 70 euros per month. Its total monthly amount is less than EUR 5 000 for municipalities across the country. We are talking about an amount of less than EUR 60 000 a year in total. Consequently, the negotiations of two million, in my opinion, are also an abnormal manipulation and exaggeration. First. Secondly. What we see is, in my opinion, from this debate and what is... which goes beyond the context of education, but much more broadly affects our debate on both this budget and other draft laws in the budget package, is that the municipalities that are not dealing with quite basic things, small and inefficient municipalities, are still very active in lobbying their inaction, and we see how bright the lobby is now to do nothing again to do everything about old. Fortunately, with a new territorial division, with new, more powerful, larger municipalities next year, I think this will not only be possible, but it will also be relatively easy for local authorities to improve this education practice, also by expanding the supply or offering in their schools programmes that are currently offered by public benefit schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U110	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U111	Yeah, thank you. Reflecting on what Mrs Golubeva has just said. Two million were named at the Municipal Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission when this proposal was discussed. Accordingly, municipalities, taking into account that this norm obliges them to ensure maintenance costs for private schools... They have calculated, and during the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission meeting, they have also named this number. Therefore, we are also manipulating this number or, more precisely, referring to the calculations of the Latvian Municipal Union, we are referring to possible expenditure for this initiative. I assume that Mrs Indricsones is also right, because trading with political influence in order to achieve favourable conditions for students in private schools... for schoolchildren, nothing new. And indeed, hiding them behind the status of public benefit organisation - it is not any innovation or innovation. And Mrs Golubeva is right. A milder and different approach is likely to show that private schools belonging to Mr Debtor's family are behind these proposals. Mr Debtor, for his part, is our Prime Minister's adviser on demographic issues. Then I also have the question of the greaterness of the KNAB, to which all Members have just been involved... the majority, supported the increase in remuneration. Is the sale with political influence in decisions on the use of budget resources and their transfer for private purposes... What is it about, and when will there be consistent decisions from this institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U112	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U113	Hello, colleagues! Reflecting on what Mrs Golubeva said, if they are more than ten thousand euros, then I do not understand why, in this budget of 10 billion euros, they have not been put in by the political parties of more than twenty thousand euros. This long discussion would then have ended here. Even if they were two million, are we sorry for education, our children? I think that the problem is that... and it is not just a problem with this year's budget, it is a problem with each year's budget that we have, in fact, never analysed the so-called budgetary base. This is what we already have as a priority, that it is right that it does not need to be reviewed, and basically all the budget discussions are focused on the redistribution, distribution and so on, and not on the whole billions of big budgets, where, in principle, what the official has prepared, that is what is happening. And that is absolutely wrong. In no company, when designing budget and planning income and expenditure, it is not considered that every year... And what has been spent last year, that, well, so... just as we will be doing next year. All positions are analysed at all times. Well, Latvia's state budget has not done so in the last 30 years. And that is why I would call for a simple revision of the entire budget. I think that we can find enough unnecessary things where we can find these over twenty thousand euros or even two million euros, give them to municipalities, so that the municipalities can finance these projects, even if they belong to Mr Debtor and even if they are lobbyed by Raivis Dzintars, as they look like at the moment. And the problem would be solved. Then only the job would be KNAB. And KNAB will also have more pay. Although KNAB will deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U114	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U115	Dear Members, Well, to be honest, she was really surprised by Mrs. Schvekov... I am sorry, Mrs Golubeva, that these small municipalities are not capable and... Now that the administrative territorial reform has taken place, these larger set-up municipalities will suddenly be better able to carry out their duties and also to deal with education issues. Well, surprisingly, because it's very simple: by adding the minuses that are in small municipalities, by combining and creating a larger municipality, they don't make minuses, but they're even bigger minuses. In connection with the largest municipality - the municipality of Riga - if I am not mistaken, if I am not mistaken, then it may be for the municipality of Riga to have additional funding of 20 or even 30 million plus. So what? This will be an example for all municipalities? Why such unequal treatment of all municipalities in Latvia? One will try to give, others will drastically reduce. We must be honest with everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U116	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar. ( Pause) Mr. Amber, we can't hear you!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U117	Dear colleagues, Here, on the part of Mrs Švekova, also from Alda Gobzema, perhaps from other Members, very concrete, namely, I would say, shameful and immoral accusations, which I would like to reject absolutely by mentioning the pre-school institution of our former colleague, Imants Deannieks. I would like to make it clear that this preprimary education institution is not a public institution... no public benefit status, nor is it planned to obtain it. Consequently, neither this nor other private educational institutions which do not have this status are in any way covered by these amendments to the law. The use of such arguments shows, on the one hand, a clear lack of pragmatic arguments and, on the other, a deep disrespect for, or for, the voters of the politicians in question. So, I very much hope, we will expect apologies from the Members concerned. But with regard to proposal 5, I still call for the vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U118	Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U119	Yes, colleagues! Colleagues, I do not want to repeat, but I want to draw attention to one aspect: in fact, the proposal of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is contrary to the third sentence of Article 7 of the Law on Local Government and Article 8 of the Law on Local Government. I'll get it. The third sentence of Article 7: “When transferring to municipalities new autonomous functions provided for in Article 15 of this Law related to expenditure increases, new sources of income must be determined at the same time by the law laying down the procedure for the performance of these functions.” Article 8 states: ‘By law, municipalities may be entrusted with the exercise of autonomous functions not provided for in that law, while at the same time determining the sources of additional financing provided that the performance of the functions is linked to an increase in expenditure’. I believe that the proposal in itself is not bad, but it must be provided with funding from the national budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U120	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U121	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to say the following without unnecessary emotions. We are talking about the budget. The proposal concerns part of the budget expenditure. A number of... different, very different assumptions - how much will it cost? Either two million or a few thousand, as Mrs Golubeva said. I think, when it comes to the proposals relating to the expenditure side, two things need to be clarified: the first is how much will it cost? And secondly, what resources will it be financed from? Not who will finance it, but what resources. That's the point one. Two points. Talking about what is better: state-funded free education or private (regardless of what is known as public benefit organisation... education, but we are talking about what is a priority for the state and public budgets. Free state-based education or private education? Perhaps here, too, that aspect should be exactly that. We want to develop and improve the reformable... the endlessly reformed public education system, do we want to move from free education to private education? Three points. When it comes to the new function, then, the new function - that is the old one, but now, with a new taste - the municipalities must bear in mind that the municipalities will survive the next year - which we are discussing today when discussing the draft budget for the next year - administrative territorial reform. What Mrs Golubeva said is that larger municipalities will be strong municipalities, maybe they will be, but nobody can say today how many new municipalities will remain the proportion that is today that the biggest... the absolute majority of municipalities live at the expense of the municipal finance equalisation fund. As a result, how the financial picture of the modified municipalities next year will look like and how the process, the process of reorganisation - it is also a big puzzle - and no one could answer those questions today. That is why I think it is perhaps also right that today it was proposed not to support the proposal tabled, but to postpone it to a better time when, however, its picture will be clearer, starting from how it will cost and ending from what will then be those payers and what will be the result. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U122	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U123	Hello, colleagues! In my opinion, we have had discussions in such an infertile atmosphere, because, in fact, the current situation is already such that... Cesis, for example, has a “New School of Cesis”, which already provides an appropriate learning process with more modern educational methods. And now the municipality provides funding for this private school. I do not know how large, of course, but the municipality provides co-financing for this school. The most active municipalities that understand the need for such schools already provide funding. There are only some municipalities left here, which in fact may be in this area... Either you haven't studied, or how... There is no known reason why this funding is provided. In my opinion, the proposal tabled is quite good and will ensure equal treatment throughout the country. And some municipalities will not just have an opportunity to stand up against another background, and the others will be just as supportive and as good as, for example, I don't know... the municipalities I have already named. So I am calling for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U124	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. ( Pause) Colleagues! Let us continue the debate. Then let's give the floor to Member Svekov. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U125	Thank you. Madam President, Colleagues! Well, I don't know about Cesis. Maybe it's better to talk, though... Members can talk about all the issues, but if you have any arguments, then maybe choose an area where you have better information. Mr Butan, by your example, you are recommending today, between two million and a few thousand municipalities, to borrow to carry out their educational function? Because for an example you mentioned... You should also post a little bit about what resources and how this really good school was financed or financed. Before you mention such examples, perhaps also look at sources in this area. Currently municipalities also have the opportunity to borrow for education, but this would certainly not be a question of why municipalities should do so. Mr Butane, perhaps, but perhaps the Ministry of Transport is better about how they are developing, and we can talk about stops or Brussels waffles, but at this point please... Please do not mislead the public with examples that are not the best solution in terms of funding, even though the result is really a good one in this school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U126	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U127	Yeah, thank you. In my opinion, it is immoral to segregate students according to their parents and their ability to pay private hours or private schools. It is immoral to hide the financial interests of individual private entities behind public benefit organisations. Immorality is to channel all taxpayers' money... not only maintenance of municipal and public schools, remuneration of pre-school educators, material provision of socially vulnerable educators, but the obligation to shift two million away from local governments, in the same way, in the interests of purely private start-ups, hiding behind a mask for public benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U128	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U129	Yes, colleagues! I just wanted to add. If we look at the existing system, the above example of Cesis School... A very good example, here I should join Mrs Papule, would be an interesting analysis of the sources of funding. However, if you want to introduce such a uniform system throughout the country and do so, then you can do so and the commitments made by the country must be respected. There is a European charter for local authorities, which lays down the basic principle: if a state imposes a new role, the state must also finance it. In this case, this is a case that works perfectly in very many local governments of Latvia, but imposing an obligation by law such a principle as mandatory, in my opinion, would be very light-headed. If you want to do that, then all these advocates of the idea need to show where to find funding so that it can be implemented. Otherwise, this really is populism. I will then ask you to support another proposal - EUR 200 in the form of a minimum pension - for the Ministry of Welfare to find, then, in my budget, where to find. A real proposal, just like this one. The fact that you pay municipalities is good, but if you make a mandatory obligation, then you rule out the discussions that take place every year in every municipality where these schools compete... competition with other municipal schools and balancing opportunities. In this case, it is excluded, and if it is not funded, you will set up state schools, municipal schools, which have very great challenges for everyone today, not to mention the optimisation of the school network, but the provision of a technical basis for teaching aids, in an unequal situation against other schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U130	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U131	It seems that perhaps it is not fully understood to each other about the situation of the municipality's activities, because it must be understood that the municipality, each municipality, has its own, for example, planning documents, development plan, then there are detailed plans, territorial planning. And it is clear there - with a vote, with a public consultation... Citizens also participate in the consultation. And all, let's say, institutions, all the activities and institutions that are planned for the future, including education. That is one factor. The second factor. When deciding on funding. Lemj is already Members in every municipality. And then, if there is any additional, here's this proposal or obligation in the draft law for the municipality, let's say, to take one or another action, for example, as in this particular case, Members are looking at both their programming documents and budgetary options and making a decision. If there is no concrete funding, then, unfortunately, it is usually logical for Members not to vote or support. So, what do we want to do here? We want to achieve that: if we do not come with the state, we do not foresee funding for this, then we can already reinstate that the draft law will not be implemented. How long will we make the law of the drone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U132	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U133	Dear colleagues, Well, it is a sad surprise that we still have such a long debate on a relatively simple issue. Let's start with it - let's ask ourselves such a question, do we believe that every Latvian child should ensure the same quality of education regardless of where he is studying? If your answer to this question is yes, as I think, how do I hope everyone... All responses are positive. Then the next question is: do you think that in all municipal schools, this, or the least good quality of education, exists at all? And here's the answer: it's absolutely clear that 'no'. This is indicated either by a number of facts, OECD studies and so on. Question three: Do you understand that this quality of education, which is both a question of school maintenance and teachers' salaries, is all a question of resources? I hope you will also understand and answer this question: "Yes, it is a question of resources." Therefore, it is logical to address the issue of resources primarily for those who study in those municipal schools. But instead, what are you doing? You take away the resources for the local government schools and move them to private schools, where children tend to learn, whose parents have a much higher income than those who study in local government schools. Well, what's special... Well, strange, for those who want to go towards the Nordic countries... This is, so to say, very regressive... Politicians, colleagues, take from the poor, give people with high income... What is it...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U134	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U135	I would like to remind you that the Commission supported this proposal. It is the proposals of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission itself. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U136	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 58, for - 29, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U137	Next - 6. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. In addition to Article 52 on the right of educators to social assistance... on social support for pre-school educators, sports educators and special education educators, the proposal which they had previously tabled, the proposal relating to them. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U138	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U139	Yeah. Colleagues, I call for support to be given to this proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens/Agricultural Union, which provides for additional support. Above all, I would like to talk about teachers from pre-school institutions, because during this time we are talking so much about doctors, social workers, and yet it is rather sad that these pre-school teachers who are doing really heroic work are forgotten. These things... These are not any innovations, some of the news we have presented in this budget and we call on you to support, these are things that were not only agreed by the Union of Greens/Farmers before these elections, but also your groups have agreed with... At least most of your political groups... with the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union on the fact that these cases are 13. The Saeima will be implemented. Unfortunately, there is no indication that these promises will be fulfilled. We call on you, however, to get involved and take a step towards pre-school teachers, because pre-school teachers are still living in the frame of the 2009 crisis on the part of the state, and the country still pretends that this integral part of the education system does not apply to it. If the State intends to support construction in this budget... To make concrete investments, so to support the construction of new kindergartens, it is necessary to look at the other side - whether there will be someone in these kindergartens who will also teach, namely whether there will be human capital. And human capital must be supported. This is an agreement with the industry, with the industry - the need for such amendments. These would be the first steps to improve working conditions for early school leavers and those teachers whose support systems have been forgotten over many years. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for the proposal of the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U140	Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U141	Colleagues! By adopting these amendments, we will finally put an end to the discrimination of one part of the educators, providing social guarantees on an equal footing for all categories of educators. At a time when teachers and educational compositions are becoming increasingly out of date in educational institutions, but young people are reluctant to go to school when the professional burning of educators is becoming increasingly louder, these changes to the law are very important for society. By providing access to social security for educators who, at a certain age and length of work, are unable to enter the labour market and are professionally burned, we will take a small step towards raising the profile of the educator's profession. Educators deserve retirement pensions and want to be available to physically and emotionally burned educators over 60 years of age and over 25 years of age. Please support both the proposal from the Group of the Greens/Earths Union and the next one: the proposal from the AGREE... and a proposal from the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U142	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U143	Madam President, colleagues. In fact, I call for this proposal to be considered not only in the context of the above arguments, but also in the context of the decision that has just been taken... the one who had some laws before... the decision taken to raise salaries for ministers... in that context. If such a decision can be made, it is possible that a positive decision can also be made as educators in support of their possibility to retire more quickly, while maintaining their state support so that they do not become unemployed (the teachers who have worked for 25 years are not worthy of it!) . They could receive state support and care for their health in the community and possibly something else in terms of teaching materials at least, or otherwise, to support young educators without additional remuneration if the state were to support such a possibility of faster retirement. Well, think about the decisions... How many teachers and how many officials... in terms of pay... you will find your evaluation... or your attitude... Well, I guess investment in educators... even though they leave work and give a place to young educators. If so, it is a better investment. I call for support to be given to three proposals in a row, because... It is about decisions that have already been taken, I must say, but yet... based on the trade union proposal, which is better aware of what is happening among educators at this time, especially those who would even decide to leave work more quickly in the community, taking care of their health and the possibility of being with their loved ones for longer. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U144	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U145	The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U146	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U147	7. - a proposal from the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation identical to a previous proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U148	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U149	8 / 8 - a proposal from Members Papule, Goldberg and Dombrovskis. This is also identical to the previous proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U150	And neither can it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U151	9. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. It provides that this social assistance cannot be granted to a teacher who is granted a national old-age pension or who is receiving an unemployment benefit. This proposal is not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U152	Members don't mind... However, Members are asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U153	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation. Identical to proposal 9. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U154	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U155	11. - a proposal from Members Papule, Goldberg and Dombrovskis. Same for the previous one. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U156	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U157	12. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. Linked to the creation of the above-mentioned social assistance system. It is about paying compulsory social security contributions for this amount. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U158	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U159	13. - a proposal from the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation. Same for the previous one. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U160	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U161	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Members Papule, Goldberg and Dombrovskis. Same as for the previous two proposals. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U162	And you can't vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U163	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. The proposal provides for expressing the third sentence of the third paragraph of Article 60 in the following wording: the remuneration of other teachers implementing pre-school education programmes in municipal education institutions, unless otherwise provided in other laws, is partially provided from the state budget and partly from the municipal budget. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U164	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - A proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U165	16. - a proposal from the Social Democratic Party's Group on Reconciliation. Same for the previous one. Provision is made for part-financing of teachers of preprimary education institutions to be paid from the state budget. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U166	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U167	Colleagues! Gradually introduce the funding of the remuneration from the state to all pre-school teachers - these were not only pre-election promises, they also committed to by Krišjānis Kariņš' government in their declaration. I therefore see no basis for this: not to approve the amendments proposed by both the Group of the Alliance of Greens/Earths of Ministers in the Education Act, which provide that the remuneration of teachers implementing pre-school programmes in municipal educational institutions is partly provided from the state budget and partly from the municipal budget. Colleagues! In the future, the remuneration of teachers of preprimary education institutions would therefore not depend solely on the wealth of the municipality. This would eliminate inequalities in the determination of their workload and pay levels compared to teachers working at other levels of education. The information on pre-school teacher load and the monthly wage rate collected by LAISDA in October 2019 shows that around 80 percent of municipalities provide the lowest wage rate for full-time work. And only 40 per cent of all pre-school teachers have the opportunity to work one time. The monthly salary rates for pre-school teachers, measured in all municipalities, vary from 150 euros per month to 1000 euros per month. Colleagues! We've already worked half of 13. Time allowed for the composition of the Saeima. Two years is enough time to fulfill our promises. At this point, we all have an excellent opportunity to prove that the Latvian proverb “Do not fall in the purse” does not apply to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U168	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U169	Yeah... Colleagues! Why is this and the other proposals that have been tabled by both the FAO Group and other members of the opposition important? The nature of this is as follows: This implies that part of pre-school educators' salaries (of course those pre-school educators who are currently not funded by the state) would be financed by the state rather than by the municipal budget. And it is particularly important to provide these educators with a sense of stability and security - that, at the moment when the state increases the remuneration of other educators, they will also experience this increase. During the discussions at the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) on this subject, the Union of Local Governments of Latvia stated that local governments have difficulty in increasing their pay from their budget to pre-school teachers in cases where the minimum wage is rapidly raised, in cases where the remuneration of teachers is increased and teachers of pre-school institutions are required to grow proportionately, and that about half of municipalities are unfortunately forced to change and adapt their pay to comply with the law, because they cannot ensure this increase. If the state were to provide at least part of the funding for pre-school teachers, it would be a guarantee that pre-school teachers and educators would also increase their remuneration. This is indeed a task that is set out in the declaration of the government of Krišjānis Kariņš. And there's a question if two years have already passed... and is a short period... If, next year, you do not yet see an opportunity to take the salaries of preschool educators to the state budget, then the question is: when will this be done? Last moment, in the election year? One year before the elections? Well, hopefully, at least then... But it does not seem that you really have a serious intention to fulfill this promise. We remember... Those colleagues in the government who have already had experience of working in the government for a long time remember: there was a serious debate... For several years, there has been discussions about the fact that the state would take remuneration of preschool teachers on its shoulders if municipalities would finance children's holiday. Now one step has been taken - from last year... from this year on the shoulders of municipalities, part or all of which must be provided by municipalities. The essence of this proposal is to make a second step that is only fair - that part or half of the pre-school educators' remuneration to their shoulders would be taken by the state. It would also match previous discussions, previous... whether, in fact, the informal agreements that have already been reached would also be respected, and that would only be fair. I call for support for those proposals which provide for this funding from the state budget in substance.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U170	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U171	Colleagues! I will also call for support to be given to my colleagues' proposal. Such a proposal, like that, we also tabled urgent amendments to the Education Act, which defined the definition of distance learning, and then we received criticisms from colleagues that these proposals were not relevant to the situation of the community (although there can be a great deal of dispute about it!) and therefore, by nature, cannot be considered. So we did not get any assessment from colleagues in the ministry or from Members from the coalition of whether anything should be done in this field or not. Now there are proposals on the budget - I think it would be the most real place - but once again the attitude is that they are proposals from the opposition and they cannot be supported! However, I will ask you to remember that the ManaBals portal collects more than 10 000 people's signatures to prevent discrimination against pre-school teachers from paying for their work! And also what my colleague, Reizniece-Ozola, has just reminded you that really preschool educators deserve stability in their pay and are attracted to this pay schedule, not to think every year how it will be! I would remind you once again that these people, pre-school educators, are first most at risk of burning, second, they are already... It's almost a year since... Right now... A year will soon come as they fight, so to say, on the first lines of the front, in support of parents' income chance... As we know, some people are prohibited from earning their income at all now, and we must ask the government... on the roads you have to pray to allow you to open your booth and do it, earn some income. But those parents who are still allowed to work and earn income and who have small children... they are very, very much supported by this system, that there is still an opportunity to bring the child into the garden. Consequently, those people who work with very young children (from one and a half years to four years of age)... It's about these educators right now... their work is very important, especially at this time - during the insecure community. Colleagues, I call on you: if you cannot support this proposal, put it as a priority in next year's negotiations. This is important, especially in view of the fact that the municipal budget, as we know, is being looted at the moment. Put down municipalities and continue to impose this extra burden on municipalities - that is, I think disproportionate. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U172	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U173	Yeah... Colleagues! I'd like to say, what's up now! You have already voted on the previous proposal... but I would ask you - even with these circumstances - to review the declaration by the government of Krišjānis Kariņš, the action plan and to remove these things if you do not comply with them. This will already be the third budget in which you fail to fulfil these commitments. So don't fool the community or fool the municipalities that may be waiting for something and live in hope that something like this will ever happen! Don't fool the municipalities so they can plan their budgets, given that the government and the Saeima have this approach, which was still a short-term solution... If I am not mistaken, it was in 2009 when, in the event of a major crisis, the country agreed with the local authorities (and there is an emphasis on the word "to agree" on such a temporary solution - to introduce this solution for a few years that pre-school teachers' salaries will be paid from the local budgets. Unfortunately, this short-term solution is attractive and in no way indicates any trend towards something different. This proposal (and also the previous one that we prepared and presented with colleagues) nevertheless marks some positive trend for the pre-school... in order to remove this burden from the municipal budgets a little, so that the country takes greater responsibility for the education system as a whole, and therefore for the salaries of pre-school teachers. Now they fall out of this common system even if the state decides to increase the salaries of educators. In particular, the State only decides on its own share, but the part of the municipality remains on the back of the municipality. Such systematic loading of municipalities with new responsibilities, cutting off funding - this will in no way contribute to all the development perspectives that you yourself have marked when you talked about how strong the municipalities will be when talking about administrative territorial reform. On the contrary, with this budget, we are showing that these municipalities will not be strong, their capacities and capacities are being widened. And renouncing this approach... As my colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has already said on these free-of-day issues... There were normal, collegial negotiations with local authorities that the provision of holidays could then be taken over by local governments in full... and that the salaries of pre-school teachers are taken over fully by the country. And it was calculated and spoken to whom it would be profitable. There was a normal, constructive dialogue, and that should be so. At present, children's weekends must be provided by local governments, pre-school teachers' pay solutions are mentioned only in a government declaration, and nothing makes it possible to think that something could change in this situation (although everyone is aware at the moment of how much pre-school teachers take on their role in this country's current crisis situation!) . I call for greater responsibility for the country, because the country has these opportunities - the biggest opportunities. With regard to the deficit, it is difficult to understand why such systematic cases, which the country could take on at the expense of the deficit, are not being dealt with and why we are abandoning such an approach. So that I call on my fellow Members to reflect on all this and nevertheless to support this proposal and, if necessary, to return to the commissions on this issue and to review this issue again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U174	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U175	The Commission did not support this proposal. This is identical to the previous proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U176	And neither is there a vote, as is the next one, on proposal 17.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U177	17. - a proposal from Members Papule, Goldberg and Dombrovskis, identical to the previous one. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U178	The debate is possible. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U179	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you to those colleagues who have already spoken on this subject. In addition, I would like to remind you that, yes, we are already putting forward such a proposal for the third time in terms of the budget, which is natural in response to allegations of access to additional funding, of the availability of money, and of the fact that we are also putting forward proposals in the medium term budget. So, if even this year... If, even in 2021, the government does not see an opportunity to honour its own commitment, then in 2022 it would be natural to incorporate the amount needed to be able to calculate and anticipate such support for pre-school teachers from the state. Again on why it would be necessary. First. This is because this year... It's been the second year... new cases or guidelines on the content of competences are introduced in the pre-school. Secondly. We know that there is not enough support in terms of teaching tools, or teaching content, designed to give teachers a place to work. Teachers are currently looking for additional things. It is their professional duty to do this, but not so much! Thirdly. It is clear that in a community situation, under stress, pre-school educators who are elderly and are closer to retirement age... Well, this situation and this additional stress also affect teachers. If the state were to show that it would support at least the amount needed to carry out the teacher's pay schedule by offering them from their own resources, then these educators would feel the support of the government and it would also be hoped that the government's declaration would not only be empty words but would be fulfilled. And fourth. We know, however, that the highest number of vacancies is now in pre-school. And it's not because new competences are introduced there, it's not because television broadcasts talk about it, it's not because there's stress in the community, but because preschool educators really have a catastrophicly low salary and this profession has not been adequately evaluated at this level of education. Neither can you say that elsewhere is valued, but... Well, yet... At this point in time, municipal budgets do not have such opportunities, also - looking at regional reform and perhaps financial... a summary. Now it will not be possible to significantly raise the salaries of pre-school teachers. If the state were to ensure this first step, this necessary... EUR 50 or... A little bit more later... an increase from their budget, then local authorities might be able to support more in terms of both learning content and infrastructure... and the remuneration of educators (whether in the form of credit or in the form of the distribution of existing budgetary resources). As we know, municipalities really spend a large part of their budget on education, and this is based on remuneration. But we can see that at the moment there will not be so much; many other social security functions will have to be carried out. Consequently, education is a public function and the State is responsible for this. If there is some reform announced, it has not yet been heard about reducing preprimary education institutions, but on the contrary, there is a need to build new such institutions in certain regions of Latvia. And the government would show that there is a policy in education. Today's decisions - the decision to support private education institutions, the decision not to support teachers' retirement, and also decisions on many other matters - show that there is no education policy, although there is a government declaration that can not be fulfilled. Well, one year is. Let's probably give... And the people will ask for another suggestion, including about raising or funding the salaries of pre-school teachers from public funds. At least as a first step in the gradual alignment of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U180	I closed the debate. Therefore, the proposal cannot be put to the vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U181	18. - a proposal from the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union. It is a proposal to supplement the transitional provisions with two new points related to proposals previously rejected, the drafting of the Cabinet of Ministers regulations and the entry into force of these points. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U182	Neither is there a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U183	19. Proposal 19 is identical to the previous proposal. This is also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U184	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U185	And the final one is 20. - a proposal from Members Papule, Goldberg and Dombrovskis. It's identical to the previous one, too. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U186	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U187	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission generally supported the second reading of draft laws. I call for support for the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U188	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Education Act at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! On - 62, against - 29, refraining from - 2. The law has been passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U189	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Invalidity Act’. Seven proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal by the Group of Members (Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Valainis) to remove the age limit for invalidity... to receive the service... not from five to 18 years, but leave it... that these services are available for an unlimited range of... an unlimited age range... persons with reduced mobility and disability. The budget and financial (tax) commission does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U190	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U191	Yes, colleagues! The essence of this proposal is to ensure that this care service is accessible to persons with disabilities for leisure not only in their place of residence but also outside. At present, the law provides that such support is only available to a person in his place of residence. In our view, this is not a fair norm. That is why such a restriction is not clear. If we want to support genuinely meaningful leisure time also for people with disabilities, then we motivate them to stay not only at home but also elsewhere, thus integrating them into society as a whole. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U192	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U193	There's no... of which I would like to say. He didn't, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U194	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava and Valaiņa! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U195	Proposal No 2 also comes from the Members' Group (Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Valainis). It's going to cut the age from five to three years... service, too... disability... That is, the services of an assistant to persons with significant mobility problems. The budget and financial (tax) commission does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U196	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U197	Yes, colleagues! This proposal is indeed a proposal to reduce the age from five to three years... This concerns persons who receive a state-paid assistant service. Currently, the law sets this limit - persons aged between five and 18 years with disabilities can receive such a satellite service, paid from the state budget. It is a political decision, it has no other, more detailed, explanation of why there is such an age threshold. We believe that three years would be a more appropriate age threshold, given that this is already an age when a child has the opportunity and the right to also become more active in some types of education... non-class education groups and other quality time activities. If this is not the case, it is more difficult to do so, so we are offering to reduce this age accordingly. It would not be a fiscal-intensive measure, it would only be fairer and more inclusive. We are invited to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U198	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U199	Yes, colleagues! I would also call for this proposal to be supported. And I would ask the rapporteur to explain a little more why such important proposals, which have no major fiscal impact, are not supported by the Commission. We prepared such proposals in consultation with both local governments and industry experts, and this would certainly help to allow more people in society who have not already had such a rosary life. I am calling for such a proposal to be supported and for it to be explained why you have rejected it in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U200	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U201	There is nothing to add. This proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U202	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Member Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklava and Valaiņa! Please, let's vote! - 31, 60, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported. Colleagues! We will continue to work on further proposals after a break. Registration of Members' presence. Registration successfully completed. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U203	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Act”. Debate on proposal 3. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U204	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you, with my colleagues, of one very important but unfortunately unfulfilled domestic work. We often hear from Mr. Kariņš that we are going to the Nordic side and we will now be modern... I always remember this unfulfilled housework, and I would like to remind Mr Kariņš, Mr Reira, that we will be a Nordic country only when we take care of our most vulnerable people. This is about children with disabilities who need specialised seats. We talked about this in the last budget, and we talked to the members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) over a long and dictative manner about why such seats are needed. We also attended a meeting of the Social and Labour Commission, which then dealt with this issue after the budget debate. However, as we know, the community has also introduced its own corrections, and therefore such meetings with representatives of non-governmental organisations and active mothers, who are fighting very hard for their rights, unfortunately remained at the moment. The substance of the proposal is as follows: Given that children with severe functional disorders... To move them in their car, parents need specials rather than normals. And these specialized seats unfortunately cost a lot - many times more expensive than usual. If you study the price level, you will see that it can be up to two thousand euros. And also in view of the fact that children should, of course, be particularly adapted, our proposal is to include this right... the right of the child to move with specialised car seats. And, of course, such seats should be included in the technical support base. The fact that these seats are still not included is, of course, a question of money. We know that the Ministry of Welfare is very much in favour of this issue and would probably have provided all children with these seats unless they received a cold answer from the Ministry of Finance: “Well, get to the end!” Sometimes, of course, we have a desire to condemn the one who refuses us immediately, but we know that the one who refuses us usually receives a waiver from the highest. And in this case... Well, we've also seen many opinions from the Ministry of Finance where... One ministry says they're willing to support this initiative, but the Ministry of Finance says: "Search for money in your own pockets," which is unfortunately empty. These speciality seats would be necessary, according to our estimates, for about 1800 children. Well, since their average price, according to our estimates, was EUR 1650, then of course the amount is quite impressive - it is EUR 2.97 million, but it is our calculation. These are our calculations, which may be wrong. Perhaps there are also technical aids, car seats, which would cost less. And the base of these hardware can also be restored and... Maybe with a variety of other aids... Maybe we could find one like this with us in Latvia. That's why our proposal... with Karin Strucke... and support... call for support for this initiative. If you do not support this initiative if you are not allowed to do so by the coalition Treaty, please, honourable colleagues, take into account: we will not be in the Nordic country until the parents try to adapt the transport of their children... with some kind of handy means... I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U205	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U206	Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. This proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U207	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 49, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U208	Proposal 4 is identical to a previous proposal which was rejected. It was also not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U209	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U210	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I am well aware that this proposal is not to be voted on, but I would like to keep in mind that perhaps those colleagues who are directly responsible for the budget should be informed. Why is this so important? And why do I now have to assume, let us say, the role of mediator in talking to mothers who have been fighting for their child's rights for years? Example: Now lives in Riga family, a new family with a disabled child aged 11 - a girl with severe functional disorders. And so that this family can work, once in a while it is necessary to take the baby to the grandmother who lives in Daugavpils and who is still working. And when Grandma has those free days... so that your mother can continue working remotely while the baby has a free day, the child must be taken to Daugavpils by grandmother. And, of course, using a normal vehicle... This girl has a very severe pain when driving this long section of the car designed for children. And she screams out of those pains! She needs special support for her legs and back, otherwise she has a very strong pain. In order to adapt this seat to the needs of the child, it would be necessary to violate the safety requirements of the manufacturer and, at the same time, of the CSDD. So something should be placed at the bottom, some special belt should be mounted, and that will not be right. So the parents... trying to adjust the child’s car seat with special something of their own means, they don’t hesitate to... of course, when they try to help their children, they can also create such a risk of security, but often parents simply have no other way out. That is why it is so important for us too: to continue to talk about this issue, to continue to call, particularly Mr Reira and Mr Kariņš, who are going to the Nordic countries, to remember it. Of course, not only car seats, but also rhytoses... in this case, children... This aid base must be supplemented and improved. And that's the priority. This is the primary issue that we should resolve, because what else, if not the vulnerable members of our society... they deserve to think about them in this case. That's why those colleagues who may not have gone into this topic... especially we are talking about colleagues from Unity, from “Development/About!” They often talk about children with special needs, and this is a very good thing. Therefore, please, Mr Skride, please resume this discussion on the technical support base and resolve this issue by attracting funding from the Ministry of Finance for unforeseen cases. I call, colleagues, on this issue not to be sidelined, to resolve it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U211	I closed the debate. And the proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U212	5. - a proposal from the Group of Members (Reizniece-Ozola, Dūklavs and Valainis), which provides that... Therefore, satellite services for a person with disabilities would not only be available to people between five and 18 years of age... remove this criterion - for persons between five and 18 years of age. The budget and financial (tax) commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U213	Members have asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Reizniece-Ozolas, Dūklava, Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 52, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U214	6. - the proposal by Member Jūlija Stepanenko that these specialised car seats be paid from the state budget as a technical aid. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U215	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 55, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U216	7. - the proposal by Member Karina Slūge, which is identical to the previous proposal. And neither was it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U217	And you can't vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U218	I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law on Amendments to the Invalidity Act at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U219	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final, reading of the Invalidity Act! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U220	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Sitting viewers and listeners! In the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission we have examined and prepared for the second reading a draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”. Three proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau to supplement the law with the new term "military unmanned aircraft". This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U222	2. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr Girgens, to exclude the words "exceptional and urgent" from the term. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U223	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Gürgen! Please, let's vote! For - 19, for - 54, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U224	And 3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau providing for clarification of the transitional provisions. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U226	On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to vote in favour of this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U227	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Society Services”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U228	Colleagues, four proposals have been received. All editorial nature. 1. - a proposal for a editorial nature of the legal office which provides for the replacement of the words 'including' by 'and'. Support has been given to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U230	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also a editorial nature. Support has been given to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U232	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also a proposal of editorial nature. Support has been given to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U234	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also a editorial nature. Support has been given to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U236	I call for support for the second final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Information Society Services".
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U237	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Society Services” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U238	Welcome again. We have also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Eight proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The numbering of the following articles has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U240	2. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis. It provides for the addition of a new article setting the tax rate for vehicles... that the tax rate on the vehicle does not include the tax on tyres. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U241	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U242	Colleagues! We have put forward this proposal, which provides that imported cars are charged a natural resource tax on the tyres on which they are based. Why did we submit this proposal? I have to say that we submitted it, I think, for the third time. For the first time, such a proposal, together with the relevant amendments to the Law on Taxation and Fees, was proposed in the budgetary process for 2019. At the time, VARAM called for these proposals to be rejected and promised that it would come with a broad concept of how to manage tyres shortly. We see that it is now the end of 2020, but these concepts still do not exist and are still the problem that any Latvian citizen can see with an unarmed eye - that unfortunately, tires accumulate not only in shattered and sown but also in nature, and that is even worse. They accumulate in nature in large piles or are burned with additional damage to the environment. And the reason is that this system is still disorderly. If a person is honest and wants to hand them over to a tyre manager, a waste collector or a service, then, unfortunately, it is often the problem that he has to pay for them at the point of tyre acceptance. It is emotive of these tyre traitors because it seems to man that if the tyres have already been purchased, then the natural resource tax on the management of the tyres has also been paid for the recycling of used tyres. Unfortunately, statistics show... Based on CSDD data on the number of cars, how many cars are re-imported in Latvia each year, and how many cars are using new tyres, it can be seen that about one third, or 30 percent, of the tyre importers do not pay tax. This means that the tyre operators and the state do not get any money, and this service is ultimately paid for once again to the customer, or the consumer, or the tyre user. From other statistics we can also see that new cars that have been imported from abroad into Latvia since 2015... On average there are 20,000 new cars, and we can count: if there are four tires on each of these cars, then this is the amount that accumulates every year in the form of tyres, the recycling of which is then paid again to the customer - a bona fide customer who has bought the car, assuming that perhaps also the management of the car tyres has been paid. When he wants to hand over his tires, he has to pay again. This proposal does not solve the whole situation, and we also discussed this within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. In addition to these amendments, there is a need for a number of changes to other laws and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, but we call for this proposal to be supported in order to finally force VARA to do their homework, the same promise they made that they would finally arrange for this area. I call on this proposal to be supported and I call on the VARM and the government as a whole to work towards adapting the rest of the regulation as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U243	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U244	Hello, colleagues! I will add to what my colleague, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, said. We already have this proposal... This is already the third budget, when we propose it and call for it to be taken into account. We can see that the issue of tyres is, by nature, only touched when it becomes relevant when there is a disaster - when a mountain of tyres lights up in some place or simply people... Consider, in Riga, where suddenly it appeared that tyres are loaded in huge chunks... And some processing or recycling is not at all about it, but it only creates dangerous situations. At present, a mountain of tyres may have fallen, but instead others have developed, and the problem is not in any way resolved. We are already offering for the third time, we are going to see a solution on how we can help this situation as a legislator, and we call on the Saeima to join it and to support this first initiative in order to put this system in order, because the tyre mountains are not decreasing, the tires are not going down, and no one has even tried to improve the situation during this parliamentary term. I would ask the rapporteur for the committee responsible, given that this proposal has already been tabled for the third time and, by its very nature, there are no counter- arguments anymore... The first time he promised that something would happen, but at the moment nothing at all... Yes, when the law is going to be passed on to the VAR... There is now complete uncertainty. Please explain on behalf of the Commission why this proposal has not been supported. On the contrary, it could have a positive fiscal impact rather than a negative impact, which is aimed at putting the system in order. Please explain and explain how this situation will be addressed. Neither in the Commission nor in any debate in the context of this budget has this matter been clarified. I call on my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U245	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U246	On behalf of the Commission, I informed you that this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U247	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Dūklava, Yalinska, Kučinska and Bergmanis! Please, let's vote! For - 25, for - 59, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U248	3. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. It provides for regulation of the extraction and use of natural resources. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U250	4. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U252	5. - a proposal by the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development which provides for the calculation of the tax on the unlawful extraction or use of natural resources. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U254	6. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U256	7. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U258	And also 8. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U260	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U261	Please call me! We will vote for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”! Please, let's vote! For - 64, for - 26, for - 2. The law is passed. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U262	Hello, colleagues, again! We have also examined in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management’. In total, we received 12 proposals. There were more proposals... We separated a part... There are 12 proposals here. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U264	2. - a proposal by Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņš. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U265	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U266	Colleagues! This proposal consists of three parts. We offer that, together with the annual draft state budget and accompanying draft laws, a report by the Minister of Finance on the amount of public debt, the dynamics of development and the measures that will be implemented to reduce public debt is presented. It's one block. Second. The Prime Minister should draw up an overview of the existing laws that determine the increase in funding for sectors or priorities and the progress made in implementing them. If this is not the case, then it is appropriate to justify why no such funding has been established in the annual national budget. And the third. (It is, in turn, a bit more provocative, but I think it's a real place, given that pre-election promises... In the context of coalition-forming parties... are not really fulfilled, very quickly are forgotten.) In the annual budgetary process... Our proposal is that the leaders of the coalition parties draw up reports on the implementation of the programmes of the political parties concerned and on the measures taken to implement them in the current budget, as well as a vision or a statement of why any of these promises has not been fulfilled. Colleagues! I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the dynamics of the development of public debt and measures to prevent it... it is one of the most important proposals, in my opinion, because we are clearly seeing... There is also, of course, an explanation - there is a second crisis in a relatively short time. 2008-2009 was the first time that the external debt of the country increased sharply. This is the second moment in the last decade, when both the government deficit and external debt are increasing significantly, reaching the historically highest level. And what I think is important not only for Members, but also for society as a whole, to realise that the government also has a clear plan how, at least in the medium term, this deficit will be reduced and the external debt will also be reduced. For example, what we would expect is that, together with this year... next year's draft budget and medium-term draft budget government would offer the Saeima's assessment of how Latvia intends to use the Recovery Fund. If there is confidence that there is a clear investment plan, that the funds will be used wisely to create jobs, reduce social inequalities, promote economic recovery, then there would be no concern that the deficit is greater than usual and that external debt is increasing, because there would be a clear vision and belief that there is also thought of how to reduce this external debt. We're... to this policy... There are only a few measures in the draft budget. Well, the most important proposal is to introduce minimum social contributions, thus reducing the state budget to some 40 million directly at the expense of the most vulnerable entrepreneurs and taxpayers. This, in my view, is not particularly sustainable, nor will it ensure a medium- to long-term recovery. On the contrary, it will have the opposite effect. And so it is not certain that this is a sustainable policy. We call for support for this proposal. I think all political forces, including those in the coalition... you, fellow Members, will benefit if you have confidence that the government knows where the ship is heading. Sometimes it seems that the eyes are closed and that GPS is not too good for this big ship. I call for support. Vote for!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U267	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U268	Hello, colleagues! I will continue with my colleague, Dana, on the subject. This proposal consists of three parts. In essence, this law provides for the way in which... what content should be included in order to allow Members to have the best possible access to the budget, to the annual budget. And there are several basic principles for submission. Of course, you... Everyone can also get acquainted with the report by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance at the moment, but we draw attention to the fact that these reports are not exhaustive and the situation has changed objectively. In such circumstances, when the State makes very serious loans, there must be more information on both the amount of public debt and the dynamics of the amount of public debt and on the priority axes of the project; this information must then be more balanced. In this budget, we are proposing the following proposal: to complement the scope of these reports. This has no fiscal impact, but it will help anyone who becomes acquainted with the prepared budgetary documentation to get a better understanding of it, to understand it. And anyone who wants will have comprehensive information about the state budget situation and the direction we are heading. As regards the third paragraph. Here I would like to emphasise in particular the previous debate - we talked about the salaries of pre-school educators, which... which has even been recorded in a government declaration... Let us not talk at all about political parties' promises before the elections... All of this, too, should be seen by society. I think that would also benefit the government itself in the sense that, for the sake of self-discipline, it would be possible to keep track of its work, its promises and their fulfilment. And every citizen could get acquainted with the way political parties do or do not fulfil their promises to voters. In this case, it would be very good - look... for each lot, look at itself in the mirror. In particular, by getting to know the budget package, look at whether 3 × 500 has been reached or whether the mandatory procurement component has been eliminated; whether all these things that you yourself have promised to voters have been achieved. Let this be seen in a transparent way for each budget! Of course, we, as opposition parties, will not sit down, put our hands in the lap. We will remind you of these things which you yourself have promised, but have not fulfilled. This is already the third budget, and under normal conditions such a proposal should not be tabled at all, but you yourself have created such conditions. One thing is that you have promised voters... before the elections, you have pledged the golden mountains, but you do not do it at the moment and you do not want to account for it in any way. The other thing is that you even write in a government declaration things that you are not doing by their very nature. You're doing this, let's say it's empty... empty affairs - universities combine the largest, municipalities combine the largest units. You tell the people that it would not be happy for them, but when you started your wish, you promised completely different things! You didn't talk about who spends this budget... Show at least one political party who promised such a change in the budget as you are currently offering, in your election programmes, when they went to the voters, took part in various pre-election debates with business, social partners and others. None of you promised such things, but at the moment it is under way. So it would be good if this part, the third part, which is particularly important for what you have promised your constituents... That it's in every budget... And there is no difference, whether this government or any other government, next... It would be binding for all - to give a transparent account of what has been done, of what has been done from the pre-election promises. Colleagues, a very normal proposal, and there is nothing to fear from such a proposal! I invite you to support and look at yourself in the mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U269	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U270	Colleagues! This is really an excellent proposal. And we made similar proposals to the law on the financing of political organisations (parties) and also in this budget package, but it was precisely about the report on how parties work using public money. This proposal, in my opinion, is a really logical addition to the idea that parties no longer have to deal with the blowing of soap bubbles, but perhaps yes, party programmes, if this proposal is ever supported, will become very boring, but we will encourage citizens... voters really think with them, look at the personalities, not once again rely on such sweet... sweet tales and unfortunately lies. Because this proposal is really very good, it could also be very good to restore public confidence in the government, or coalition parties. As we can see, the level of confidence is currently critically low, 68 percent simply treat the government as totally unreliable if we look at yesterday's data. Then, in order to improve this situation a little bit, because we all live in this country, we have to get along in Latvia somehow to really... in this sense it happens that the opposition even takes more care of coalitions... Well, security so that the coalition can work in a responsible way further and raise the public's confidence slightly, because its infidelity is really devastating. Because it really is that coalitions... this budget is a coalition's vision of what the next year will be. It will no longer be that the coalition will now show each other with its finger and say: “We have not introduced “3 × 500” because they are the bad ones, we have not raised the salary because we have to build, for example, Rail Baltica, or something like that, some reservations. Yes, it will simply have to be accountable to your constituents and to the general public for what concrete steps have been taken to implement what is set out in the party's programme, perhaps still to be done, which is preventing this programme from being carried out, because, dear colleagues, the country's big bill is in your hands, in the hands of the coalition. You are already deciding where the money should be, how the money should be spent. We're already... You already see that our proposals are all rejected even without discussion, because the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... If someone was at all present and listened, you could have heard that it was simply such a dynamic operation of the machine - simply reject, reject, reject. No one is invited to express a point of view or in any other way, perhaps any opinion... No, it's just going ahead. That's why it's your vision, and now, some responsibility must also be, and not just that you promise people different mountains of the skymann, and then it came. There must also be some kind of accountability, and then, of course, in this case, there will also be a change in certain political culture, there will also be a change in understanding of work in public administration, and it will be better... Well, it will be better, everyone will be better, because there will be a more responsible policy, there will be no more dream vendors. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U271	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U272	Colleagues! It is difficult for me to remember that a party would have promised that its main priority in the budget will be the construction of a prison. At the moment, we see that this particular party has forgotten what it promised the voters before the elections, but it is the construction of the prison that has become the top priority for the budget. The same could be the case for other political parties, but what I would like to call on... The Saeima’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... and, at the moment, also the course of the hearing shows that no explanation will be given to the opposition about this - why any of the proposals has been rejected or, on the contrary, why someone has been supported. We can see that, following the explanations from the previous proposals, which we received today at this remote sitting... the only explanation was that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission did not vote. Well, then, in my opinion, perhaps this tool, an e-Parliament tool, should be supplemented with simple red and green lights, so as to remind you of a simple point at which point and as a coalition, you should vote to save us all the time, because quite simply the rapporteur of the committee responsible does not explain anything. And in this case, I ask the rapporteur for the committee responsible to explain how the Commission had some discussions on this proposal and why this proposal has been rejected. It has no fiscal impact, it is only public administration... In my opinion, this would help to increase confidence both in the Saeima and in the government if such proposals were to be supported. And it is only about supplementing the information and asking the coalition, any government party, to account for their electoral promises.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U273	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U274	I would like to inform you that there were various political views on this issue in the Commission and that a majority of the Commission decided not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U275	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Members Reizniece-Ozola and Valaiņa! Please, let's vote! For - 27, for - 59, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U276	3. is a proposal from Member Stepanenko. It provides for supplementing the law with a provision that the Cabinet of Ministers, when drawing up and submitting the annual state budget to the Saeima, must provide for a transitional period of at least six months for the implementation of any tax. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U277	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U278	Colleagues! This opposition proposal was rejected without any debate, without an opinion. It is a pity, because the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has so far been the place where ideas were discussed and where perhaps these ideas, if not fully supported, could at least continue their path... in a further debate on other proposals, but then, unfortunately, here, no discussion takes place within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... I'll do it again. And my proposal states that this six-month transitional period should not be fixed for all tax changes, but for those tax and toll initiatives which are prepared by the Cabinet on the budget. Well, we are always ready from tomorrow, but if we talk about people only from the budget debate at best, but in the worst case, when they get some message from the EDS, they learn that they will have to make a dramatic transformation of their lives from next year. The residue is less than one and a half months before 1 January. In my opinion, this is not a normal situation where these changes in taxation are driven at such an abnormal rate directly to the budget. In order to even mitigate this negative impact on the economy, on taxpayers, my proposal is to provide for a transitional period, not so that, with January 1, people have to think about how to live further, but even give them this six-month transition period to July 1... then they would already have a half-year to prepare for this negative change by 1 July. Because, as we can see, now people can pick up at the Saeima, they can write letters, they can turn to every Member personally, but nothing will change, because the machine has been turned on, something else in the government has been born the idea of another crippled, and this crippled idea is being driven forward. And in very rare cases, in very rare cases, when a trade union or group of people may have some particular pot, some particular influence on our deaf ministers, it is only possible to count on the fingers of the hand that some silly idea has been stopped during the budget debate. But most of them just go ahead, and despite the fact that this transitional period has been given very little, it all comes into force and works. Therefore, in order to protect people from different imaginary scenarios that could come from our dear ministers with a 68 percent negative rating, the proposal is to give people at least time (a half year) to prepare themselves so that they can understand at all costs what taxes they have to pay. Have mercy on accountants, for whom no Christmas is possible at the moment, and the New Year is no mind where else... Where else, I don't know... I therefore call on you to support this proposal. Perhaps one of the coalitions could come and explain to us what is wrong with this proposal, why we cannot give people a half-year period to prepare for this negative effect. Well, I'm calling for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U279	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U280	I thank my colleague, Mrs Stepanenko, for this very good proposal. It is really in place; such a general rule should be introduced. And that is what we have also tried to do in the previous government: to separate tax policy from budgeting for two reasons. One. When it comes to balancing the budget by changing taxes, there is a very strong pressure on the coalition partners to increase taxes so that additional resources can be found to finance the current priorities. And the other. It has indeed been a very bad practice for many years, from which businessmen have been afraid, just for taxpayers, that every year the budget comes together with significant tax changes - usually in the form of tax increases, not to mention that with 1 January at all, this means that everyone will get worse, but it is exactly what Mrs Stepanenko said - it is extremely little time to adapt, because you know that the budget is usually adopted at the end of the year - in November, sometimes even in December. Such a proposal is also extremely necessary because we see that this year's experience is one of these perhaps even the worst in recent years, when proposals and changes from the Cabinet itself, from the government itself, come to the Saeima during the second reading of the draft law at a meeting of the committee. The meeting of the Commission begins at 9.00, tables on planned changes and the next rapid turn from the Cabinet of Ministers are available at 9:15. That is just one small example. Moreover, there is complete conviction that the members of the government themselves, by substantially increasing taxes, by substantially changing them, not as much as the black behind the nail, at least most of their colleagues have no clarity as to how it will actually happen. Colleagues, you are planning to abolish the patent payers from the beginning of the year, a whole group of citizens, who will have to move rapidly towards another tax regime. You are introducing minimum social contributions, and for the last month, in recent weeks, you could not understand how to manage them. At one point, the idea was to involve the social service workers, and they realized that there would be soap. Again another proposal that if a person wants to pay according to his actual situation, not more than what he has earned, then every quarter the entrepreneur will have to declare and predict his planned revenue to the State Revenue Service. He will have a lot of work, his accountant, the State Revenue Service, then the State Social Insurance Agency, and at the end of the year you will see that you are more... Once again, taxpayers themselves will be saddened, as the conversion of taxes due may once again be an unpleasant result in the form of an additional invoice. You have made the beneficiaries of the royalties a petitioner. They have the right to apply to the State Culture Capital Fund to help them compensate for social contributions, while leaving behind the board a large proportion of authors' remuneration. For example, we received a reply from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission on the question of what to do to journalists last week, either that the organisation representing them has to agree with the association of creative organisations on possible support. Well, this is not a good practice in tax policy making. And, my fellow Members, I can tell you from experience: the previous reform implemented by the government of Kučinska from 2018... For almost two years, discussions have been held involving not only ministerial experts, but non-governmental organisations, business representatives and taxpayers. A very wide range of debates... and the experts were involved to be able to understand the changes that will be made in order to be able to inform the public so as to be able to understand the administration. And with all the fact that many resources, both in terms of time and money, were invested in this area, there are still mistakes. And the mistakes that need to be corrected. And then imagine if you're making such a major change in the last weeks' head across your neck, what will be the result? It will not be time for you to understand what you are going to do or to explain to someone else. I call for support for this proposal to return to normal practice that substantial tax changes are adopted in good time, at least half a year - at least half a year! - before they enter into force. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U281	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U282	Thank you. It is very important to note that in 2018, practically every political power currently in government that is now making decisions on increasing the tax burden on medium and small businesses, representatives participated in meetings with business associations or organisations organised by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia, as well as in discussions and answers questions of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia. And it is important to note that during all the discussion practically all representatives of the current coalition parties claimed and promised that no significant tax increase... changes will not be made suddenly, without serious discussion, without balance and... dialogue-building policies with all parties involved. Another important point is that the micro-enterprises regime is currently being severely restricted, which will actually be destroyed. And also the requirement for micro-enterprises that they will no longer be allowed to register as value added tax payers - it is very, very important - it affects many taxpayers, it will restrict their business and it will destroy them in practice. And I think Julia Stepanenko's proposal for a discussion... and that discussion must be more lasting than it is currently the case, and something else is no less important: every proposal and every change needs to be very... choose the time at which it is accepted. In my opinion, adopt significant restrictive measures in the field of taxation at a time when the economy is in recession, when the result of the post-crisis and communion crisis... mitigation, just mitigation, not elimination, we cannot talk about liquidation... is very short-sighted, in my opinion, because it will also create social vulnerability for a whole range of businesses and their employees. In practice, the adoption of such changes is currently inadequate, affects very much the categories of vulnerable people and does not meet the requirements of time and economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U283	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U284	Colleagues, we are now... In the Commodore crisis, many say that they are well-founded in the expertise of experts, and this would be the most successful way to overcome the crisis. This is also happening in many places, but here, let us assume, today morning in the public media: Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry says about changes in tax policy that they will increase the shadow economy. Is it worth listening to such signals? I think so. This proposal provides for reasonable deadlines... the entry into force. I would also like to talk about the deadline... how this type of amendment is prepared in general. When it came to the Saeima, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima also indicated that it was... This tax policy, which is being proposed, is very difficult to understand. And I also think that at the moment there will be very few Members who could explain in a reasonable way, simply, understand what the next steps will be after 1 January, what will be his future, the future of the patent payer, what he must do. I think that a very large part of Latvian society, despite anything... and no matter what advertising campaigns, no matter how many politicians would tell... What should be noted is that politicians do not tell us at the moment what the planned changes will be in such a way that people understand, explain... It will come in front of the fact that the institution that will explain the future tax policy will be the State Revenue Service. Just like today we discussed with an entrepreneur on the streets of Old Riga, who told us how the State Revenue Service explains why they now have to repay their retirement allowance, because the State Revenue Service has made a mistake somewhere... But these tax changes, which are currently being proposed, will simply lead to a situation where, from 1 January, very many Latvian citizens, the entrepreneurs working in these tax regimes, will face the fact (and this fact will certainly not be very pleasant) and it will be from the State Revenue Service that will find out what the new rates are and what their new life will be. This proposal makes it very clear that this transitional period should be reasonable and cannot be combined with colleagues, that it is difficult to understand the desire of other groups to do things that they want to do now to raise their populations, raise their education and make such a model of tax payments at a time when many sectors of the economy have actually stopped. There are very big challenges in how to structure business in general at the present time. There are, of course, large companies, which are showing very good export performance at the moment, and only joy in doing so. But we have very large companies that, in my opinion, will come back and require grants worth not just a few thousand but a hundred million euros in the near future, but at the same time, in order for us to think about how to fight and work with these big money payers, we choose... at the worst moment we choose to raise small businesses, because all the biggest tax changes that will be in this budget will affect small entrepreneurs and those who have been created by these special regimes at all, so that they do not work in the shadow economy, so that they still pay some kind of tax so that they can be in some kind of regime, but work... Just in times of crisis... I have to join the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and I think that these experts, who are working with small entrepreneurs all the time, understand what they are talking about. If you do not listen to the opposition, listen to the biggest business organisation and to what they say that it will simply wipe away from the shadow economy all those entrepreneurs who have managed to get into the normal economic regime for many years. I call for this proposal to be supported, but on tax regimes, I think we will be speaking a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U285	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U286	Highly honourable colleagues from the position! I have a request - perhaps after this sitting or at a break - for your colleagues who were invited to several speeches and discussions on the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Latvian Employers' Confederation - to ask these colleagues who they have signed there and who they have promised there. And perhaps I hope that these your colleagues will be... Well, you will be given an honest answer and a response to the fact that they had talked there about how unacceptable it is to allow an unpredictable tax policy where taxes are raised in the short term, for example, by giving less than half a year to entrepreneurs and businesses to adapt to this new policy. Perhaps they will tell them that they promised about this then, more than two years ago, promised entrepreneurs that there would be no such unpredictable tax policy. You know what, colleagues, the next elections are not so far away - there are less than two years left. And you could be absolutely sure that the same Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Latvian Employers' Confederation will again definitely invite representatives of all parties who will want to continue working in the next Saeima and will ask the same questions. And then, colleagues, we will certainly remind them, let us show them the prints from your vote today. So I think it's worth remembering this when you make a decision on what button to press in a few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U287	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U288	Hello, colleagues! The proposal to introduce a transitional period of six months for any change in tax policy is absolutely logical, as what is currently happening in the country cannot be described differently than legal nihilism. I was asked to give you the greetings. These congratulations will be to the ruling coalition and also to the government. The first greeting is from the unemployed with a reminder that one year ago, the Minister for Welfare made a proposal to reduce the time limit for the payment of unemployment benefits and to change the amount of unemployment benefits for the reduction. All these unemployed now send you a great, great greeting to enjoy what they have already enjoyed this year. That's the first. Second. It is a great welcome to you from all Latvian accountants and also from the Latvian Tax Advisory Association, which is simply outrageous about the way in which tax legislation is changed in our country. It is pointed out that in an unprecedented atmosphere the laws on taxes, these proposals, are drawn up not by the Ministry of Finance, but know what? The State Revenue Service, because it is easier for them, makes it easier for them to carry out their duties, because they write the laws they have to comply with. And the Ministry of Finance is absolutely powerless to do something in this situation, and it happens that the State Revenue Service is even over the Ministry of Finance. You have great congratulations, the ruling coalition, from all micro-enterprises, from those people who are currently working in this legal regime. The essence of the greeting is that, thank you, we do not know how to live in the future, how to survive. We don't know what the salary will be for us. The wish for you - read the laws that you are ready to sign at the moment (maybe you have not really read) and try to calculate what the salary will be for many people in our country from January 1. And maybe then you will find out what they think of you and how they hope to vote for you very soon. And the last greeting to you from this morning the participants of the beauty industry, mostly the participants. They were very surprised that almost a single Member had not gone to them just to talk. Because these people also do not understand how one can simply destroy the budgets of one hundred Latvian families in a few days, do so so that these families can stay without any income and wait until December, whether they will be paid something or not. And where are they going to pick up? To the European Commission? At the government house? Here? Because everyone works at a distance, and nobody is interested in... And the essence of these greetings is that if this legal nihilism with regard to tax policy does not end, then you could really expect the same nihilism, only for yourself, which is already demonstrated by recent research, namely, what people trust in and do not. And the scale of this confidence will soon be very clear. Thank you. Please vote in favour of this Jūlija Stepanenko proposal and support the fact that, at least six months before the changes in the tax system, we will warn Latvian society about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U289	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U290	Thank you very much, colleagues, for your support. I just wanted to add that, yes, as my fellow Members have said, we have a whole range of different taxpayers who are already waiting - some since 14 October, some since 9 November - for the government's decision to grant them cut-off benefits. And this government's decision, as we know, was one joke, as some ministers like joking here. This joke proved so very cynical and without precedent that it was simply said that money will be, don't worry. But we know that the European Commission... At first, it has been conceived that this small aid should be approved by the European Commission, and there is no indication of when it will happen. So to all this situation, when we have a whole range of taxpayers who are now... To be honest, I don't know how they can survive these days. Ask them how these people live because I... I can't imagine how they pay... how they may still maintain their office, how they pay the necessary payments, and how they eventually feed their children. Ask them how they can survive at all. And yet by getting this insecurity feeling about what and how will be with January 1. Colleagues, why do you so terriblely love Latvian society, colleagues from the coalition? I call on you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U291	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U292	Good afternoon, everyone! I turn to the Latvian society, and if my colleagues were to help to envy Latvian society and support it, then I will be quite the opposite. I think that Latvian society deserves to raise taxes, that it does not help with idle benefits, because Latvian society does not want to go to the streets at least temporarily (as in other countries). This process has gradually begun, but it is too small. Insufficient. And that part of Latvian society, which obviously has something else in the refrigerator and is afraid to leave its comfort zone, I would like to say that this power, which is praised by you on the television, shows in various surveys that, of course, are questionable... this power will tax you always - always! - As long as you let it go. While you are sitting in your sofas, you will look at your half-empty refrigerator, while the Aunts of Mirdza will believe in what is shown in “Panorama” or somewhere else on the TV, while younger people at my age will wait for the Luck of Happiness, the Sun, or something like that, while you will have higher taxes. Then, when you want, lift up - one day after one week, one month after six months, no, this will happen sooner. And it can only be changed in one way - to stop pitying, to get up and go on the streets. I said that a year ago in the adoption of the budget. Well, don't you, my dear society, all those who watch this broadcast see that this power is not interested in discussion? Now the adoption of this budget is by its very nature pointless. The opposition is talking about something: the voting machine goes over. How is the budget being drawn up? Just like that. And that's not what's going on... I don't think Karin's making a budget, the official has written, everything's all over, everything like a machine goes over. Is there a revision of some sections of expenditure that could be reduced, especially in times of crisis? No, no. Why not? Because Unity and power parties have come up with the idea that their electorate will be who works in the public sector, now and then they support the public sector, there does not shorten anything, for themselves, as they say, ministers do not freeze wages and in such a spirit for this time of crisis, because you do not rise, because you are looking at a little more butter in a refrigerator, there is a milk. You were told on the television that Kariņš is keeping the umbrella well, and you will continue to rejoice at the fact that Latvia is one of the poorest countries in Europe. How are you doing in other countries? In other countries - Germany, Denmark... Anywhere, in France... By the way, we should have a little French revolutionary spirit: to tear off its blood with the citizens of the Member States of the European Union so that we would not be so phlegmatic, so that in such a lethargyl sleep we would end up falling asleep, once to tear off its blood and start to get up, on the streets. Well, how long will you suffer? Now you have to wear masks for one large part, and then you'll say that you've been promised that you won't raise taxes, but you've raised taxes, so you've got to hink in your kitchens, sofas and everywhere else. And those people who do not want to get up - they are, by their very nature, guilty, because in other countries the public does not allow and Members, the government is aware that there will be a very radical and very serious public reaction. But what are you gonna do after... I don't know, in a year's time, in two, when this House will be gone and when it will show you the beautiful ads and promise again for the next period. Then you will look at those advertisements, and you will have forgotten this. And that's how we're going to keep up with more and more poverty... one part of society. Another part of society lives, by the way, quite well in this crisis - those who are supported by power. But for society as a whole to live well, the majority of society must get up and stop watching these pointless sittings with a voting machine that might not be available, robots... And that's what I've said a year ago, two times ago, I said this thing in my interviews, and I can also say it again from the virtual parliamentary tribunal. Dear Society! Dear Aunts of Mirdza, John, and all the rest! Stop watching on TV, stop waiting for a miracle. You want to live better, get up, go on the streets, make a picket every day, every week, and come mass! It's the only solution, it's doing it all over the world. And we're not an exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U293	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, on proposal 3... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U294	I would like to remind you that in the Commission as a whole we had a six-day debate on draft laws, a wide-ranging discussion took place, and a majority of this, 3, did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U295	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 32, against - 59, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U296	4. There is also the proposal of Member Stepanenko, and it provides that the content of the annual state budget law requires a new addition - a public participation report. In the Commission this proposal, 4, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U297	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U298	Colleagues, honourable colleagues, I will remind you a little bit of the recent history. A year ago, we had a very wide-ranging debate at first reading on raising party financing, and, looking at this issue more seriously, also asking the initiator of this idea, so the Minister of Justice, Mr Bordan, found such an unpleasant fact that, by its very nature, public participation in the budget is close to zero. And accordingly, the MyaBalss.lv initiative, which collected record at a high speed... record at low speed... in record time, these signatures for postponing party financing - to which we are now going to return again - have shown that society is ready and that there is a desire in society to discuss such issues that... such essential issues as are included in the budget package. There was no serious change in taxes, as we remember, in the previous budget, so the most painful issues were, of course, this here... preparation for raising the minimum wage and, for example, separation of all possible positions from the minimum wage. As we know, maintenance has now been lost to the minimum wage and other benefits that we talked about last year... So let's leave it, let's say, about the most important financing of these parties here - that was, really, well, cynically. However, this year the issue is even more painful, in my opinion, if we are talking about tax changes and, as we can see, these changes were not in any way discussed with any of the groups... Where do we think of patent payers? Where do we have the view of micro-enterprises? Where has just one proposal been taken into account from specific people in whose lives do you intervene? I am sure that if, for example, the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (as did last year's medical staff) were to come up with such a quiz, how to live on 1 January, it would hardly be possible for some of the coalition Members to answer basic questions, as if you were, for example, a small businessman... how you could restructure your work and what awaits you next year on 1 January. I think some people do not know at all who is a patent payer and who is a micro-entrepreneur - I allow that to be the case. That is why this public participation, especially if we are talking about those coalition colleagues who often point out in the Saeima's debate that the Saeima should listen to the public, so these colleagues should stand and fall for the fact that public opinion on important issues such as the annual budget must definitely be recorded - even if recorded! - and should be put on the budget package so that everyone can see in general. So there were such objections, whether or not they were taken into account - it is now your conscience. In this case, without asking the public's opinion, driving forward the whole of this reform, you will achieve that public support for you will already be less than 99 per cent, not 68, as is currently the case. I therefore call on you to support this proposal, in particular, I call for the support of those colleagues who are always very concerned about public participation in other areas. This area, believe me, is the most important country. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U299	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U300	Colleagues! I particularly appreciate this proposal for a public participation report at a time when I read again the draft vehicle operating tax law, and you all have the opportunity to make sure that if you open the original draft law - to the first reading that the government has brought to us in the Saeima. We remember where there was not only an increase in vehicle operation tax, but also a substantial increase in the registration fee for imported cars, the draft law states that no objections and suggestions were received from public representatives. And we remember, I think, that at the time when the public learned about the changes in this tax, such avalanche of snow began - a very clear public has made it possible to understand what it was not that there was no objection and everyone likes it, and to that extent it was said that the government was forced to resign - the increase in taxes is still intended, but it is less, trying to guess the threshold of public pain. And then, of course, after such an entry in a draft law that causes such a great deal of public reaction, there is such a statement that "no objections have been received". So, of course, the question arises: what is that part of society? Is the ministerial office really the whole of Latvia? Is any narrow circle of stakeholders who want to buy diesel trains the real society with which we need to harmonise the draft laws that are included in the budget? Well, following this example, I think that Mrs Jūlia Stepanenko's proposal has a double value. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U301	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U302	I think that public participation, or at least information on important issues affecting the interests of the whole of society, is a very positive initiative and one that should be supported, especially with regard to one aspect of this issue. For example, we, as Members of the Saeima, have just accepted an additional allocation of approximately 8.5 million to the public media for exiting the advertising market. And another half a million will be provided in next year's budget to commercial media about informing the public about relevant topical issues. But is the public then informed from the public media or from commercial media that the Ministry of Transport intends to privatise the Latvian road operator? Is the public then informed that the Ministry of Transport is also planning to sell the shares accordingly to undertakings belonging to the Road Safety Directorate? Is the public informed that only dividends for the previous year, 2019, for example, will leave funds close to EUR 2 million at the CSDD? Does the company explain the consistency resulting from these changes in the relevant state-owned companies and capital companies? Well, I have not personally found any publicly available sources of information, except Delfi, for the publication on the future fate of the CSDD, which is being purchased. And then it is very important to understand that all the initiatives that the Cabinet of Ministers, which the government and now politicians are accepting, affect a very, very large part of society. Not only are tax changes, but they are also changes in other areas that affect each of us in one area or another. And on this issue, respectively, public participation, objective participation, not subjectively and subjectively presented, or only the information reflected in the specific political media and comments made by journalists in the public media, is she sufficiently objective and is not used for the opposition as well... either do not show opposition initiatives or reflect those initiatives that could have a negative impact on parties, politicians and ministers in the same rating position, in this way or in this way. And I think it is important for society to know who will buy the lots that will maintain the roads of Latvia. It is important for the public to know who will be the companies that will buy out the shares of the Road Safety Directorate and which will carry out further roadworthiness tests for the companies concerned. We see that, accordingly, future legislation will provide for excise duty to be raised and also for vehicle taxation. All its taxes will be borne by the majority of society. What is the consistency, and what is the information? Therefore, public participation is very important and important. Please support July Stepanenko's proposal 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U303	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U304	Yes, colleagues! In my opinion, it is very welcome that there should be some kind of review of public participation. If we look at the present, how government work is organised and how society can participate... Ask yourself how often you follow the Secretary of State's website... rules called on by the Secretary of State, regulations announced on the websites of the ministries and how often you read what is being prepared. There are, of course, different organisations that do this and who work with these documents on a daily basis, but here has come to public administration, which I would like to note, such a new... a new approach to this issue. What is the case when the question is, by its very nature, not in line with the position of the ministry or the government? That's all... A new definition has been found to have been taken into account, although nothing has been taken into account in substance. And such an approach is beginning to spread in government work. And then these questions, as you say, disappear in the corridors of the ministry, because the government is already more... this government completely, in my opinion, from one of the first days when the meeting of the Committee of the Cabinet of Ministers was suspended... chose that this format should be abandoned. It was a format where all unclear issues could be analysed, discussed and tried to find where the issues were, so that the maximum quality of the draft laws would come to the Saeima and it would be clear to everyone what the public position was then. There is a trend at the moment, and I think to a large extent that is also the reason why such proposals arise... There is an approach on the government's agenda: that which does not apply to the government, that is, some of the issues to be discussed, that we give those to the Saeima to then the Saeima to fight. When we arrive at these documents at the Saeima, we look at the scenes, as my colleague said earlier... Looking at the scenes, public participation has taken place, no objections have been received. And it darkens the minds of some fellow Members in a way that they think everything is fine. And then the moment comes when the public often learns about such amendments on the part of the opposition, when we raise these issues. Such cases have occurred. And once again I stress that, with regard to tax changes, I think a very large part of society still does not know what is expected of citizens from 1 January. It must be... This mechanism needs to be improved, because now the government has chosen a way to listen less to the public, to listen to the public, and until the Saeima often get documents, as mentioned here, where it seems as if society has been listened to. Therefore, neither does the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima fully demonstrate that I would listen to the opinion of society, and mostly listen only to the views of ministries. Therefore, in order to improve the legislative process, such a proposal should be supported... I think it is instead, given exactly the background in which we are at the moment. Meetings of the Cabinet Committee as such do not happen, documents coming to the Saeima... often we so... the company becomes aware of the changes planned. And I think, too, in this case... This budget is also an excellent example of a very serious change being proposed for the second reading, which in general is a nonsensus for such a normal, sound public administration... when new proposals are tabled in the budget law for the second reading, new approaches on how exactly from the government... how to develop tax policy. In my opinion, this is unacceptable and the process of public involvement needs to be improved, because this budget is a striking example of how the public is not involved in the budgeting process. I think every member of society... It was an excellent exercise - to find a way to join the Saeima budget evaluation process. I think without such a special knowledge, it was really a big challenge, how to do it. I invite you to think about how we get involved.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U305	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Registration of Members' presence. It's been a success. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U306	Colleagues! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management. Debate on Proposal No 4. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U307	Good evening, colleagues! Now, in principle, Julia Stepanenko's proposal on public participation in the use of public money and taxpayers' money is logical and understandable, but I would urge him not to confirm for the reason that our parliamentary coalition has ever been interested in public participation? Consider an example. Medicals protested some time ago - and I think it was too - for the approval of the budget. So someone was interested in what they were protesting or not protesting? Well, they didn't give the doctors as much as they need. Now that there is a crisis and when there is this deadly virus with which everyone is afraid, then also Latvian medicine has the smallest section. Well, some kind of public participation, you don't need it! The only thing I've recorded is, if it's true, that the Debtor, Imants Debtor, was lobbying schools, Raivis Dzintars got up today at the platform, if, where he took the public's opinion into account... the views of the company, that is, the Imants Debtor. I was the only one who, of course, thought that Raivis Dzintars was the leader, but I guess he's under the Debtor's tub. Why do we not need public participation yet? Well, for example, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla. She did, I think, this week, or, last week, he climbed a quarry...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U308	Thank you. I call for the specific proposal to be made...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U309	This is already about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U310	... not on the concrete...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U311	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U312	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U313	In the Commission this proposal, 4, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U314	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U315	Proposal No 5 is also from Member Stepanenko. Provision is made for the Saeima, when examining the annual state budget in all readings, to ensure openness and public access through digital tools. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U316	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U317	Colleagues! I had already made a similar proposal 12. In the Saeima, and I will continue to insist on making these particularly important annual meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) widely available to the public. What do we see from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission sittings when there was still an opportunity to be present? It is good that there are now bigger spaces, and there were still a lot of different areas in these rooms, waiting for their question to be examined. And this debate in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission at first reading, when the first reading was approved, and also in second reading, of course, differs, firstly, from the fact that at first reading we see the justification of what the government has brought to the Saeima, and this justification is detailed, maximised, contrary to what we can hear at first reading in Parliament's budget debate because then it is... then we are talking completely about the entire budget package together with the accompanying... And at second reading, we see efforts... Firstly, efforts to correct errors in this incoming government project, secondly, proposals from the opposition on how this project could be improved, or a reminder of what has not yet been done. And not because of the opposition debate, we need to show the public their kitchen, as budgeting happens at least in the Saeima, but precisely because of public trust. If you, fellow Members, did not want to vote on the aspect of public participation in the budget, then perhaps you would like to support this proposal, which states that this debate in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... they must be available in the transmission, i.e. with digital tools. This means that those people who want not to interfere with their justice in the budget debate but simply listen to the process... they must have access to this process immediately, not at some point after a few days or hours. I would remind you that, at least, we have made some improvements to this situation by the fact that, thanks to the remote sittings, people have the opportunity, at least, to listen to what has been on these commissions. So far, this was only possible if people specifically asked for this entry. That is good, but people must be able to follow, especially the budget debate, live live, because first of all, if you have refused to give the opportunity to give a transitional period, for at least half a year, to people whose lives will be affected by budgetary amendments... you refused, you refused to participate in society, then at least allow those people whose fate you will decide on in the Budget and Financial (Financial) Commission debate, to hear in the kitchen in time for their life and business when you decide to vote for it. It would only be fair and fair... people can hear it online immediately because, believe me: there are many people who are very interested in hearing what is happening in the budget debate in the Saeima. Unfortunately, in recent times, we have heard that the budget debate is going on completely without the participation of colleagues from the coalition; it is only the 'no' vote, and my proposal was not discussed at all. Thank you to the opposition colleagues for their support in the Commission. But if we say that this debate lasted as much as hours and days there... but these proposals have not been discussed at all: no opinion has been given, no opinion. I call on you, colleagues, to support this proposal. I think it is obvious that people need to know what will happen to their lives in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U318	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U319	My colleague, my beloved Jūlija Stepanenko, has nothing else, I think, understood in these two years that this Parliament does not need public participation. This Parliament, especially the coalition, as you see, is the main law, the state budget... adoption - the coalition does not debate at all, nor does it debate in the commissions either. This coalition is not interested in public participation, it is not interested in public opinion and public needs - that is obvious and clear. Why? Because there is a great explanation for this, not only is society itself busy and does not demand this change, but it is also certain that the coalition will cover the medium space. They effectively monitor everyone, including security services, themselves and in the same way. And that's the reason. They feel like a kidney on a fat basis and therefore they do not need any public participation and do not need any budget discussion. But the budget-making process itself is by nature a farce because... And the Saeima... We see that today's scenario is the same as every year. The coalition shall remain fully silent and shall be a voting machine only. Why? Because nothing is already decided by the Saeima in nature, everything has been decided before - somewhere, in some corridors, in some offices. It's like reconfirmation here, well, in principle, there's no institution left by its nature... what is prepared in the corridors of the civil service. There is no debate on the substance of where every penny out of all the many billions is spent, because it is indisputable that we have a budgetary base, which must not be changed under any circumstances. It is not said anywhere that he should not be changed, that he should not review the chapter of expenditure, and so on, and in such a way. We're talking (for people to understand in the context of the budget)... we are talking about a hundred million out of all the big budget, about a hundred million in total, then divided there, somewhere that draws to their side, somewhere... The coalition has, in principle, drawn everything to its own side, because they have a majority of votes and so. But there is nothing about the budget as a whole, about the essential, of the big numbers. You're just told (and almost every year) once a year... tells you: you will have higher taxes. The adoption of the budget in principle by default means that you will have higher taxes, because you do not protest, so you can still raise taxes. And what is public participation? You can stand outside, manicure and beauty salon workers, picket - no one is interested that you are there. Did anyone of the coalition come to you today? Nobody's come, right? It was? And so it's on any question. Any question! But the budget is the best example of how decisions are made: it is a machine that simply drives it across the fate of people because people are afraid to get up. Well, dear society, until you are afraid to rise, while don't expect your participation in Latvia's state management, in the process of drawing up the Latvian budget; don't hope that the electoral promises will be fulfilled. ‘ 3 × 500’ has already been forgotten. That prison is still up to date, but don't expect it to be easy. Entrepreneurs, you promise all the benefits or something else. You know very well that Latvia has received in this time of crisis... Latvian entrepreneurs... the least-favoured-nation benefits in the region, the least-favoured-nation aid. Although we were promised that there was a lot of money and that now we're just going to have... and only everyone will have this help and so on. Teachers - dissatisfied, doctors - dissatisfied. Yes, but with displeasure in your kitchen and sofas is not enough. The proposal of one Member, Stepanenko, is not enough to achieve public participation, because she alone cannot fight it. It needs the support of society as a whole. The involvement and desire of society as a whole and the ability to find time to stop fearing. Stop fearing and asking that the state authority of Latvia begins to take care of people who are in Latvia. It's starting to take care of pensioners. I understand that some pensioners like power very much because they are told positive about him all the time, but now look at their pensions once. Look at how many of your grandchildren have gone to England! Open your eyes! Society as a whole, open your eyes! I always like to speak the direct language honestly, and this is not an exception. Just open your eyes and look.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U320	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U321	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! This is a direct question of how to organise work in the Saeima. At the moment, when the annual state budget is being examined, I think it would be only normal if there were an opportunity, like today, here, now any citizen (whether he is located in Latvia or outside Latvia, no matter where) can enter the Saeima's website, press the video broadcast and follow our sitting, and see how the budget is being adopted. Undoubtedly, the annual state budget is one of the highest and one of the main responsibilities for the Saeima to carry out every year, and such an issue must undoubtedly be the highest priority and with the highest level of openness. And on matters where sittings are held in person, as has been the case so far... Here, Julia Stepanenko very well outlined how this is happening. Anyone who has participated in or has been on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has defended any proposal despite this result... At that time, it happened in person... There were, of course, very many different non-governmental organisations, ministries, and everyone was ready to debate here, and Members were also able to look at what this proposal would cover, and look a little bit in the eyes of those people who came to defend them and understand. I think: if such an approach were to be taken during the examination of this budget, it would hardly be possible for Members of such a light hand today to change the regimes of micro-entrepreneurs and patent payers... and other not quite popular decisions, because too, as I have observed at least, representatives of the coalition of pickets did not come and spoke much out and did not explain what the future of this budget would be and how socially they would be ensured in the future. To be honest, I cannot name any Members who would have come to these pickets who expressed their displeasure to talk about these topics. At the same time as the sittings were present, these people still had the opportunity: if Members did not come out with them, they had the opportunity to go to them and express their position. And that's not only happened once. And yet, you also feel a little bit the people to whom this issue was most directly related. And that's why it's public participation in this case, too, in my opinion... This system, which accompanied the budget, was too bureaucratic and opaque, and man had to make a prior declaration that he wanted to listen. Anybody there? Why should the meetings of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission not be open so that everyone can see, without registration, what is going on in the sitting, how is this process going? Even if he does not need to defend a particular question, even if he is not interested in any particular question, it is even right behind the interest to see how the process, which is one of the most important in the Saeima's work, is going to take place. These opportunities were not specifically given this year during the budget review. It could even be said that they were not given at all. There were some Members of the Saeima who had difficulties joining the process of budgetary review, which I believe is an unacceptable situation at all. Therefore, if the Saeima cannot organise itself on these issues itself, it would be worth imposing in this law that the sittings should be as open as possible, because (I will repeat and continue to repeat this budget review) a very large part of society, I am absolutely sure what taxation policy will be as of 1 January. It is quite simply a matter of public involvement in the process of reviewing this budget, and in essence it has not been done. Therefore, colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. If the Saeima is unable to arrange for what was ensured in individual draft laws... in individual special commissions it will be ensured... At the moment, it was not secured to the budget... So support, let's make it a law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U322	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U323	Colleagues! The state budget, the process of shaping and adopting it is the essence of a real policy because it is about money; because the state budget will give an answer at least next year to the question of who, what, what and why will benefit. Or, on the contrary, who, how, what and why will lose. In this context, it is very important whether the public has the right to know how the debate is going, how their elected representatives are discussing, what they support or do not support, what money is allocated to and to whom they are not granted, who is being deprived of and to whom they are being given and why, what motivation is there. Therefore, I ask you, colleagues, to support this proposal and to allow the public to know, or to understand or at least try to understand what lies behind those beautiful word strings, which they then have elected from the parliamentary tribunal in such a very short period of time. In my opinion, it is precisely during the discussions in the committee that you can give a very beautiful light to those real goals, those true beneficiaries and those real ones, let us say, the players who stand behind a specific proposal that suddenly appears at second reading without having to discuss them properly and in a very, very specific way. I therefore ask you to take note once again of Mrs Stepanenko's proposal and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U324	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U325	Colleagues! If some time ago, the matter is discussed 12. In the Parliament, with the management of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission at that time, which said that some financial investments were needed in principle to ensure these broadcasts, then, now that, under pressure of circumstances, we have actually moved to a digital platform and very beautifully, as my fellow Members have said, we can broadcast the sittings of the Saeima online, we can also make audio recordings of the sittings of the Board very well. So the roll-of-order amendments will no longer be necessary, which we have been discussing for several years. In this case, we also see that the sitting space of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is more than suitable for video broadcasting. This space, as I remember, is now also used by the YOUTH Unity in the sittings, and everything is perfectly visible and transparent. So it is possible to carry out the broadcast, there are no technical problems, or there could be no catch-up. So if we're talking about online sittings, there's no problem at all. But if we are talking about the time when we will hopefully return to normal life, then broadcasting would also be absolutely technically possible. Colleagues, I really don't see a chance... Well, I see no reason why this proposal should not be supported. I call on colleagues to think about, to support... Maybe it'll be the only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U326	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U327	In the Commission... as colleagues have already pointed out, the commission has come very far and I do not know any case where someone would have been refused to attend the Saeima sitting. Everyone who wrote by e-mail received a link, and the Commission has repeatedly attended almost a hundred people who could not be present. Also audio records are available at once as... they are available. This proposal, fifth, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U328	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 28, against - 57, abstaining - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U329	6. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Article 9 of this draft law is foreseen to be excluded. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U331	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 10 of the draft law is foreseen to be excluded and has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U333	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 11 shall be excluded and approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U335	9. The plan is to turn off... Also the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima... provides for the exclusion of Article 11. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U337	10. is a revision of the editorial nature of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U339	11. - transitional rule... rule-exclusion... Transitional provision... Yes, clarification. In the Commission, the 11th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U341	12. is a editorial clarification of the Legal Office. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U343	I call on the Commission to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U344	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management at second, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U345	Hello, colleagues, again! So we are going on with the draft law that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined at second reading - Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. 32 proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U347	2 is also an encouragement of the Legal Bureau and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U349	3. is the Group's proposal. Defaults to change attached... the rates of duty applicable from 21 per cent to 18 per cent. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U350	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U351	Dear colleagues, The essence of our proposal is to reduce the standard rate of VAT from 21 per cent to 18 per cent. This proposal is aimed at achieving a simple goal of helping the population of disadvantaged groups to weather these difficult times and keep themselves on the water for local businesses, which have been particularly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Our proposal is intended to stimulate consumption, ensure that people have access to goods and services and ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises have stable and predictable revenues during a pandemic crisis as far as possible. The international experience shows that this instrument is effective: analogous measures are already being applied in other countries of the European Union. For example, Germany is applying a reduction in the VAT rate from 19 per cent to 16 per cent by the end of 2020. This decision has already produced positive results. Such tax reductions in the face of the socio-economic crisis allow for a slight reduction in costs for businesses and contribute to price reductions such as primary needs for goods and services. We propose a reduction in VAT for a limited period, from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021. The deadline for the year is necessary to create economic momentum for the affected Latvian economy. In my opinion, the crisis is the time to start talking about tax reductions, because this topic has long been mature. The reduction in prices will not only increase sales but will also motivate producers, thereby increasing the VAT base. Members of the Parliament’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission have no arguments against a reduction in VAT from 21 per cent to 18 per cent. This norm will allow people to breathe and survive. I call for our proposal to be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U352	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U353	In the Commission, proposal 3 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U354	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the Group's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 15, for - 57, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U355	4. is the proposal of Member Dombrovskis, which provides for a reduced rate of taxation of 5 % for accommodation services in tourist accommodation. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U356	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U357	Dear colleagues, I call on you to remember March this year and our first debate at the beginning of this pandemic on what must be done first and foremost in the economic area, which sectors should be supported. From March, I and several other opposition representatives asked you to understand that the first of those sectors that will be hit most hard and fastest will be tourism - hotels, also public catering, and so on. And it is these sectors that will need immediate support. What have we seen since then? The government made decisions relatively quickly on support for agriculture in the amount of several tens of millions of euros. If I remember correctly, these decisions were taken either in March or, at the latest, in April. The government made a very rapid decision to allocate more than EUR 380 million to airBaltic, which is part of the tourism sector. The government also actually decided not to change or change the level of remuneration in the public administration. That's... We remember very well that ministers even refused... were not prepared to give up your allowances - a thousand euros a month... from representation costs. But what about the rest of the tourism sector? There were no important decisions taken by, colleagues, on 4 November. It was only on 4 November that a decision was taken to allocate EUR 4.7 million, less than EUR 5 million, to support hotels. The Association of Hotels and Restaurants of Latvia itself pointed out that these funds would be sufficient only to pay for perhaps utility services. We, colleagues, have recently seen from the answers to Members' questions that the Ministry of Economics has developed a state aid policy for the second wave within three days. Colleagues, in three days - from 7 November to 9 November! I'll remind you, my colleague... from 7 November to 9 November... We are talking about Saturday, Sunday and Monday. The entire support programme for the second wave, which has also been talked about since the same, I think in May, was developed within three days, in fact during the holidays. I think that is all we need to know about the government's ability to formulate, to shape an economic support policy. In fact, we are talking about the full failure of the government, the Ministry of Economics, in policy-making at sectoral level. Yes, to talk about innovation, energy efficiency innovation and so on: obviously this is what the government is learning. To formulate a clear, effective support policy at sectoral level, as we see in this most striking example of the tourism sector - a government which is obviously unable to do. Therefore, colleagues, there is a proposal to reduce the rate of value added tax for hotels to five per cent, that is, to apply the maximum possibility... possible... reduce the VAT rate. And I, my fellow Members, will also call for us to go even further and to sound even lower VAT rates for hotels at zero per cent with the European Commission. That, colleagues, is clear: as it seems that the government lacks understanding... the application of the reduced VAT rate will reduce prices. Reduced prices will help hotels to compete and attract tourists. As for our goods, the VAT rate is zero, it is quite logical that hotels, which by their very nature are the same export product, service, this rate would also be lower in order to promote the international competitiveness of this sector, the ability to attract tourists. I call for support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U358	Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U359	Colleagues, we also call for support to this proposal by Mr Dombrovskis on the introduction of reduced value added tax for the tourism sector, particularly for hotels, because it can really be a good support instrument at this time of crisis. In the previous vote, you saw that we did not support a general reduction in VAT, because we believe that this would simply reduce budget revenue. We would not in any way support the reduction of inequality, even if it were to be regarded as such a special support for individual sectors, but in areas where we see that it can give the necessary... It cannot even be said that the pressure, but the necessary support in this difficult situation, is, in my opinion, a sensible introduction of reduced VAT. We remember that already in spring, when the first wave and restrictions of the community took place, the tourism sector was worried that its drop in turnover reached 100 percent and affected three thousand companies, 25 thousand employees. The summer little, a little let the nose hang over the water, but not many. And again the autumn season starts with the next blow. It is obvious that the government is always a step behind the necessary support, both in terms of volume and time, and is always trying to calibrate what is then the sectors that are to be allocated. Now too, well, three days carefully, while working quickly, such a proposal was made. But we see that, in fact, entrepreneurs, the same tourism sector, the hospitality industry, their support for cut-off benefits, support for subsidised wages, working capital will be available, at best, only at the end of the year, and at worst, next year, with a significant delay, which in fact means ending many of these companies, because there will be no working capital. These are sectors with significant operational constraints. Already in the spring and now, again in the autumn, a simplified form of administered support such as reduced VAT would allow sectors that are still able to work, which are able to find a solution and continue to operate, to provide these working capitals. Well, when there were good times when we planned tax reform, then for our part, including the Ministry of Finance, we were actually the ones who encouraged us to consider the possibility of adding value added tax to accommodation services because we understood (and this analysis also showed) that foreign tourism is what is the biggest consumer in this area. In order to be able to afford a reduction in labour taxes, in order to be able to afford local producers support, it was logical to analyse the possibility of taking more foreign nationals to have resources available for local support. After extensive discussions, we did not take that step. This is the moment, the moment of crisis, when, on the contrary, I think there is a need once again to show flexibility, the ability to adapt. That's, by the way, also the advantage of a small country that we... At least we should be able to make faster and better calibrated decisions, including support for specific sectors. This is, in my opinion, a very good opportunity. It should not become a permanent rule, if necessary, for a transitional period of one year, three years, so that companies working in the housing sector can overwinter. Unfortunately, winter will not be just a few months. It's going to be in their business for a year now. I call for support for this proposal, and also, colleagues, for a very careful assessment of all the others who have a proposal to reduce value added tax with a specific objective and a planned outcome. Specifically, this little, but would allow domestic tourism to be promoted not to the same extent as the Ministry of Economics planned in spring that domestic tourism should increase by 30 percent... That's what I think it's utopia. But sadly, when we discussed this proposal at the commission meeting, we did not expect comments from the Ministry of Economics on this and much more. The only ones who commented were mainly from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U360	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U361	Colleagues! Following on from my colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, I would also, of course, like to support my colleague's proposal... I would like to remind you that the question we asked Mr Kariņš was when, however, support for those people who are now denied work or who are working part-time - when will that support be? We concluded from the reply that probably the respondents themselves do not really know when this support could be because, in my view, something is very much misunderstood because... Therefore, this aid is linked to the fact that such a... According to the reply, this is a selective advantage for the companies concerned. And in this case, I really... I'm trying to understand whether, for example, hotels that are desperately trying to attract local people in some way to figure out how to keep this business still... prevents it from sinking, for example by creating private restaurants in hotel rooms or... Well, different ingenuity people have, they're trying to survive. And in this situation, it is clear from the letter that it is understood that this selective preference for the businesses concerned must be agreed with the European Commission and that this period of harmonisation is 10 working days. Well, from 10 November, I understand that tomorrow is the last working day on which the European Commission should receive an average response. It is not clear what happens next. Is there really something done, or this request has been sent, or this response has been received, because when... When colleagues preached an emergency, of course, they immediately said: “Nothing, don’t worry, you won’t be able to do it, but you will have support right away. There, we have the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which we developed on Saturday, Sunday.” Yes, we tried very carefully, but, as we, colleagues, warned, these Cabinet of Ministers regulations represent one cunning transitional point. So everything will only happen when we allow this support mechanism to be provided for you. Therefore, of course, we must help, well, hotels, we will also have to help the restaurants. We will also talk about this in future proposals. But let's be honest, I really get the impression that the Ministry of Economics has been misled a little by the Ministry of Finance and Mr Kariņš, I think that the Ministry of Economics has been so much at the moment... It is a very embarrassing situation with its reply. And let us remember that, in the first wave of the society's time, we almost got back to the proposal for reduced VAT hotels. Almost! I think it was a little bit short and someone was afraid... One of the KPV LVs, probably under the name of Mr. Zakatistov. I call on you fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U362	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U363	Yes, it is very important to understand the common support system and the overall percentage of aid per sector, respectively. In my opinion, this proposal, given the significant impact this sector is currently having on the Covid-19 crisis, is positive and positive, and is also to be seen in the context and through the prism... support measures already taken by the government to the general public at a previous stage. Here I would like to name a few data and figures, and the calculations that the Board of Fiscal Discipline in its monitoring report also adequately reflect support for the sectors and sectors affected by the Covid-19. And so, in the case of the Covid-19 unemployed, families, children and so on, respectively, individuals, the amount of benefits of EUR 58,4 million was paid, although previously planned at EUR 134,6 million. As a result, the share of social benefits in the total measure amounts to only one percentage point, which is surprisingly low given that combating poverty has been one of government priorities for a long time. At the same time, there is very important and very significant support... the State has provided support to public limited liability companies and sectors, which represents 58 per cent of the total aid. In total, the state contributed EUR 301 million from the budget and from the funding available to the public sector by the European Union, amounting to support: EUR 346.5 million for the air transport sector, EUR 349 million for the public transport sector and, consequently, for the other bodies. In my opinion, it is only justified and logical that support for the sector concerned will also be provided in this legislative package, with a view to facilitating the application of the value added tax rate. Thank you. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U364	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U365	Yes, colleagues! I, too, would like to call on you to support this proposal, which aims at reducing VAT on tourist accommodation by five per cent. I think this is a completely correct direction, but I would like to oppose those who say that there are some alternative support mechanisms for these tourist accommodations. I believe that both these alternative mechanisms, as Mr Dombrovskis has already said, have been created within three days, and this aid rate... support by lowering this rate - this does not interfere with each other. And it is equally good to work and interact with each other, because tourist accommodations (and here I am talking mainly about those who are the big ones who are currently in the most difficult position and who are in both Riga and Jurmala) - there this crisis is quite serious. And it is not that entrepreneurs have accumulated such savings to be able to survive without problems. I think you don't have to tell anyone, you have to argue about how big these entrepreneurs have been... which, however, accounts for a very large proportion of Latvia's gross domestic product and thus supports our economy. We have to do everything we can to... At one point these conditions we are living in today will come to an end, and it is important that these hotels... all these entrepreneurs would be able to participate in this international competition, because we see that in many countries, however, it is these tourist accommodations that have not only support mechanisms but also reduced VAT rates are introduced. It is an immediate mechanism to help these entrepreneurs to deal with the crisis in some way. It cannot be recalled that, initially, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister himself supported this approach, and the industry also supports this approach, which is included in this proposal. I also call on you, colleagues, to support this, to listen to the views of experts in the sector, because, at the moment these hotels go bankrupt, they will also fail all the features that all these tourist sites... There are tourist accommodations. And its features have been cared for over the years, and it will be very difficult to build a new one. Let us therefore look to the future in such a way that we can really, through effective means, help these entrepreneurs overwinter and prepare for the next season. Hopefully, it will not only be like the Baltic bubble, but also have more places. People will travel to us and use these tourist attractions, and in this way... in some way we will be able to help the economy recover more quickly. We need strong entrepreneurs at a time when the economy will start to recover, not a worn-out one... at best... The beaks breathe, in the worst case, indeed all of these events that have developed over the years will simply have gone bankrupt, and we will have to think about how we can re-establish this quite successful tourism business, which is currently in a critical state. Its costs will be much higher than the fiscal impact of this proposal. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U366	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U367	Colleagues! Well, let's not be naive, there's no VAT on hotels. Well, it didn't decrease in spring, it doesn't decrease now, because no one in power is interested in guests, nothing. They're interested in... probably interested in your OIC and all the others... car passes or something like that. In fact, instead of reducing VAT, we should think about much more radical aid for this sector, namely that this sector will not, by its very nature, incur any tax. It should be considered whether, of course, the temporary exemption from VAT would remain at a reduced rate in the long term. And maybe also exempt from other taxes at the moment, because no tourism takes place in essence... if these revenues are not of crucial importance already in the overall tax base. So we'd help the companies... entrepreneurs working in the sector concerned. But the power will not do so, because the residents are too inactive, just as other social groups are waiting for a miracle. There won't be any wonders. This power is not of public interest. That is not what our business people are interested in. Here are promised those 10 or how many billions of money are held. Where is it? And you don't know where it's spent. Well, it is likely that some sector of the public sector will be pushed into. Undoubtedly, because medicine is not so, medicine has the least of Europe as I have seen statistics today. It's in some way... Well, for yourself, raising your wages now a little bit today, too. Well, that's about it. You are simply not in that area of interest, you are not potential voters for power parties. Thus, power parties are completely irrelevant. The power parties clearly focused exclusively on the public sector, but I would like to remind all those working in the public sector - dear people, those working in the public sector very soon will not have what you pay. If there are no entrepreneurs in Latvia, because they move (see all this) abroad - to Estonia, Lithuania, Germany, Sweden and in such a spirit - what will you do? You will not have this income in the short term either. You are pleased and happy that you have been paid half a year or already nine months of leave for one part. Part of it has to work more. But these joys with this paid leave will end at the same time for half a year. Because many of the money's gonna come to an end. What is it? Then we... Let us be honest: we are already at a time when we are at a time of siege. What happens later? We should therefore all be in solidarity with those social groups that suffer the most. This is only logical and understandable. Well, that's what happens all over the world, where society helps each other. Helping one another doesn't wear a face mask and think the omites will save. Help is to look at all social groups, including those who are living in prison, who are not objectively responsible for their own fault, but who are currently hard to go through because of political decisions. We see that the state of emergency does not produce any results, does not actually give any coalition and power decision any results. They're all pointless. And our country's economic situation is getting worse. I call on all strangers to unite with manicure, pedicure, sports class organizers, with all those who... which can be abyssed, to whom taxes will actually be raised next year, and go on the streets. That's what the world is doing. Dear Latvians, I understand that you are bitter that you are afraid. That, do not give God, you will have problems or something else. It does so in the world, in a democratic, developed world. Look at the different television sets, and there you can see that protests are taking place. In Denmark, there was a huge protest campaign very recently and people achieved what they wanted. In Germany, huge protests... With water throws, people were scattered. People stop fearing. You must also stop fearing. We cannot, as usual, as in the province, that fashion comes to us for half a year, or even two later. We cannot afford to wait for our people to die in hunger. We have to start acting now, dear society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U368	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U369	In the Commission this is 4. - the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U370	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Dombrovskis's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U371	5. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Yalinska. It is envisaged to apply a reduced VAT rate of 12 per cent to public catering. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U372	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U373	Colleagues! The introduction of reduced value added tax for the catering industry a few years ago was discussed as such an effective way to add... reducing the shadow economy in the sector. It was also an agreement between the administration of the Ministry of Finance of the time and the industry, even in the form of a signed protocol, that if value added tax had been reduced, the industry was ready to legalise the remuneration itself, to significantly increase the amount of their legally paid remuneration. Then, of course, at this point in time, such a proposal has a completely different objective. The time of crisis is not the time when the shadow economy must be combated. It is good that there is at all an opportunity to employ people and not to shift them to the side of the social budget. At the moment, this proposal has a specific task - to support the catering sector, one of those areas that cannot actually work well with government constraints. Yes, the company is lucky if it can find a solution to provide catering remotely at the moment, providing orders in the form of delivery, but it is clear that for one large majority of catering companies it is not their business format and practically means a complete stop. We propose the introduction of a fixed-term, fixed-term, not a permanent rule, because we believe that we can then discuss the usefulness of the norm. Why is this proposal also important for this sector in particular? We know that this is one of the areas which, in the spring, already suffered significantly, is again falling in the autumn. We see that the government, once again thinking about proposals for companies, is giving an incomplete offer for its part: either in order for an enterprise to receive a soft pay or subsidised salary or working capital, it is planned to take turnover in August, September and October and to assess whether the company deserves this aid or not. But, colleagues, the catering sector is the one to which this year was already in spring when the turnover fell sharply, and it is not fair to take as the basis for the last three months. One. Second. Because the government has once again tried to save public funds in some way, it has determined sectoral support, not general support... This means that this support mechanism needs to be coordinated with the European Commission. Until recently, we asked the Government, the Ministry of Economics, how long this harmonisation will take, because the rules, if you carefully read them, show that harmonisation to support cut-offs and subsidised wages can last until March next year, and the working capital - even mid-summer next year. And that's not serious. The working capital for companies is now needed if we want them to be able to pull their lives and endure this difficult period. The answer from the Ministry of Economics was that... that the European Commission could coordinate this support within 10 days, but as early as 17 November, they themselves stated that the Ministry of Economics was preparing for the submission of these documents to the European Commission. Well, once again, you can see that you don't understand that every day entrepreneurs are overweight, that support won't be needed at some point. Next year you will be able to keep it in your budget and enjoy it, and you will be able to pay social benefits to their redundant workers. In the catering sector, we offer 12 percent value added tax, although I would say that this is already, in this situation, even modestly. More importantly, the expected effect could be achieved by an even greater tax relief. I call for this proposal to be supported. It is not much but, at least, some concrete, uncomplicated, clear support for a sector that has suffered as a result of the communion crisis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U374	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U375	Yeah. The catering industry - it has practically not recovered from the first wave of the code crisis and has automatically entered the second wave, which is even more serious for both companies and employees working in this field. We see that the government, as well as the Ministry of Economics, are not showing itself pro-active in ensuring the protection and proactive measures of both workers and employers in this area, which will preserve or at least ensure survival for those working in this sector. I think that this proposal is very positive... ensure the overall support of companies active in this field and could be kept to a minimum, but remain competitive or capable of developing. Another key issue needs to be taken into account. The government in several policy documents points to the availability of a recovery instrument for Latvia in the future and to the use of almost 10 billion for economic recovery. However, in the relevant programming documents, although not yet detailed and the criteria for supporting undertakings eligible for the recovery mechanism are clear, it would not be possible to define, according to the documents available, how undertakings active in the catering sector could qualify for, or at least expect, any part of, the recovery fund. And at least for the time being, the Ministry of Economics has not been informed by planning documents or information documents about the plans for companies to be supported by the recovery plan according to which criteria. Therefore, in my opinion, tax policy instruments for setting a reduced rate could be something that would have a positive effect on the catering sector. I therefore ask my colleagues to support this proposal, enabling the sector to recover to a minimum from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U376	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U377	Dear colleagues, I am now looking at one publication that was a few years ago, and I would like to show you that. You're here, I think, seeing the picture of Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš, together with the title: "The Kariņš offers to lower the VAT rate on food to five percent". ( Shows the picture.) And here, colleagues, you can read, well, quite such very interesting things that the Ministry of Economics has put forward proposals in the Cabinet to reduce the rate of value added tax on foodstuffs. Minister of Economics Krišjānis Kariņš emphasizes that the low income citizens will benefit from the tax reduction. For disadvantaged families, the overall price reduction could reach five per cent, as the proportion of expenditure on food in the lower income basket is almost twice as high as in the average household. All the more! According to the Ministry of Economics, the budget revenue could also be around 65 million higher at a reduced VAT rate than expected by the Ministry of Finance. Well, colleagues, there must be such a rhetorical question here. That, well... What has changed for the Prime Minister since... when he was the Head of the Ministry of Economic Affairs a few years ago and thought that value added tax - not even during a pandemic, but even at the usual time! - should reduce that it will help... Especially... for disadvantaged families that this could not only reduce value added tax revenues, but even increase those revenues? And now his finance minister claims something absolutely and totally opposite. Now he says that this - the reduction of value added tax - will not have any effect on prices, and it cannot be all that will only happen in the profits of companies. Well, that's what the same finance minister and Mr. Kariņš are saying when they go, for example... when it went a couple of years ago, as you remember, colleagues, on alcohol sales and on excise duty, which is by nature the same conceptually as VAT tax, only one is counted in money, and the other is percentage of the price, then the Prime Minister... then the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance argued that the reduction of excise duties - quite the contrary - will once again have an effect both on prices and on consumption, and it will help to attract Estonian so-called gourmets, and so on. So, here's my colleague, I guess there's such a rhetoric... rhetorical question: what happens then to the people over the years, that they are leaving this path from the fact that they then argued for a reduction in the VAT rate for the public... food, are they against it now? So, what, my colleagues, is that position and that effect? I would like to be interested if one of the coalition Members might be prepared to respond and defend his Prime Minister and his government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U378	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U379	Madam President, Colleagues! I call for this proposal to be supported for a practical reason, too. One afternoon in the working week, passing through a city of Vidzeme, which is not a state town and is not a metropolis Riga, there was such a slightly strange and sad scene. Basically, all the catering, let's call them a cafe, was closed. In one which is very popular and is located in the center of the city, at the time of entering, it was possible to see such a specific picture - on the one hand, all the epidemiological prohibitions are respected: people are masks, space is limited, entry... the number of people is in accordance with the requirements... However, when asked how many public catering or cafes are working in this Vidzeme city, where more than 30,000 people live, the answer was: “One or two. Maybe we are just two.” Of course, there were not only two such catering establishments in this city up to restrictions. And I asked, “Well, how are you doing?” - “Yes, people come, people are happy to buy products.” But practically every hour, the police turn in and check that this institution does not violate any rules. It seems that this would not be, well, such a favourable attitude towards entrepreneurs, who, despite restrictions... work in accordance with them. The other thing. This operator, this catering provider, can do so because there are other things he does, such as school meals. It is therefore clear that not only is this one particular activity of the café, but there are other things that allow that provider to survive in the current situation. The question of substance is: will it be possible, after the abolition of restrictions in this city, to resume work without such a VAT relief for all other cafes, or catering sites, which were very popular in Vidzeme, where there are more than 30 000 inhabitants? And the second question: if you do not support such discounts, perhaps the controlling authorities can carry out these controls in a more pleasant way, in a more supportive way, and do not put the main thing that entrepreneurs should suffer - does not give God that someone takes a step and, does not give God that something has not been done? I don't think that's a positive attitude. I therefore call for support at this point in time... If you did not support Covid-19 in the law on the management of the spread of infection, which would allow entrepreneurs to work in public catering, then this would be the place and time (also looking at the statements made by the Minister of Health today that the community situation will affect at least the spring of 2021) to give entrepreneurs the opportunity to work in certain restrictions and to provide services to some extent that are not comparable... equivalent to supermarket services, where something can be taken with you, but on the contrary - these entrepreneurs operate outside Riga. In Riga, maybe people will also choose to eat again outside the house, but in Vidzeme cities or other cities that are not metropolitan, this choice could also be difficult due to a decrease in people's income. Therefore, I call for support from the point of view that local businesses, which are outside Riga, do not stop simply because the government does not want to accept any proposal from the opposition at one time or does not want to see an opportunity to support their businessmen, who can, in addition to the conditions of the community, be able to support their businessmen, who will certainly not require them to operate continuously and do not require any benefits or support for subsidised jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U380	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U381	Dear colleagues, With regard to this proposal, we cannot fail to touch on today's reality, which unfortunately shows the short-sightedness of the government, because, by banning the catering sector from working properly, the government has, in fact, engulfed the fast food networks in this situation, the internationally known fast food networks McDonald's, Hesburger and so on, because these networks have long been used to feeding people for reception and indeed, let us say, there are no major problems, perhaps the turnover has fallen somewhat, but they are ready for it. What you shot at is exactly your... your Latvian entrepreneurs, who have been working so far, say, ensuring on-site catering. Of course, as well as Bolt and Wolf, all other supply networks are now very satisfied. So that you've provided a service... a bear's service for your... your business, but you've improved the situation by creating a preference for those I've called. And in this case really especially, well, maybe it's so bad that it doesn't... that... No, you don't even sound at all right now. You have been silent at all, honourable coalition colleagues. It is your 'no' votes that look particularly painfully, without any explanation, without any perhaps expressed hopes that maybe... maybe after a month you will think about it, because it is true that this issue will not remain anywhere, it will always be on the agenda until it is resolved, especially given that this government's strange... a strange decision... So at first, in cooperation with Riga City Council, for example, these terraces... catering terraces are allowed for rent free of charge and people are prohibited to stay there at least or the next day. Similarly, such restaurants, for example, which have separate cottages, where people from one household can have lunch, are also completely wiped out of all this story. Therefore, colleagues, I will not be surprised that the government is so short-sighted that this proposal will not be supported either by the coalition forces represented by the government. But I will repeat again now - we will also continue this issue in the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection and continue to remind us of it constantly, because the catering industry is dying at the moment. In my opinion, one of the most up-to-date sectors is now. Such an unexpected decision, I think it was a shock for many, because the Latvian Restaurant Society, I understand that a couple of days could not even understand what the government has done... How are those losses... Well, at the moment, it is a question of at least a fixed-term reduction in VAT for this sector, for those who will remain alive. And we will maintain this proposal as long as we can, as long as you can, until you realise that this proposal is the only one that will save the industry at all. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U382	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U383	I, too, call for this proposal to be supported. If we look at how this kind of business is going, then those who do it have significantly reduced the number of employees. Everyone is, of course... As Julia has already said, those entrepreneurs who have adapted to everything for which the business model has already been such that they have provided a reception service... But at the same time, despite the fact that these restrictions have entered into force, there is no need to eat in restaurants, cafes, but also indoors... as well as in these community conditions, it is particularly difficult for these entrepreneurs to do so. And that is most clearly true in regions where already before the state of emergency was quite difficult (after negotiations with these entrepreneurs who are in this sector), they already had difficulty drawing ends together. Such a reduction in the interest rate will undoubtedly have an immediate effect on them, but if we come up with a budget based on the principle of such an extreme table... I see, at the moment, a coalition and I think the Ministry of Finance is already looking very simple. Here we go, anyway we're from this... from these entrepreneurs we can collect, though and so we collected, if we lower this interest rate, we will still and so reduce the revenue from the budget... However, I think it is by leaving this rate so high... Here, it is necessary to repeat what the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry said. In this case too, entrepreneurs will go simply to the shadow economy, and we ourselves, with these high rates, in circumstances where entrepreneurs no longer rely on these idle benefits... Today, a businessman who is active in public catering even spoke and said clearly and lightly that she has already launched her employees on the unemployed. The mere dismissal of these workers and the no-fly benefits will no longer be used for exactly one reason - because the country then asked her to repay them during the previous period of granting of the no-fly allowance. Although, here, this entrepreneur, I am absolutely sure that she has complied with all the laws in good faith, and in this case, too, this appeal against him was completely out of place, but at the same time all employees have already been laid off. And it's not just one businessman, it's a lot. If this tax burden is also too high at the rate of value added tax, then in this case the tax, simply not being able to pay it, will simply not be paid and will look for other ways of feeding themselves and perhaps the few workers who are these entrepreneurs. And we are making this situation, which is currently a very difficult situation, with this burden. The State has imposed restrictions. Of course, restrictions need to be set. They have been identified by the State. The State is also obliged to provide support mechanisms for these economic operators, including through tax policy-making. The current tax options proposed by this budget are purely negative from the point of view of economic operators. Except, of course, one social tax... social tax, reduced by one percentage point, which will actually reflect... It is the big business that will benefit from this, but it will not significantly improve anything for small business. Such proposals would indeed significantly improve and facilitate the movement of some kind of economy and reduce the risks of these entrepreneurs going to the shadow economy. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U384	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U385	Loved society! What I would like to add to all of what colleagues have said - you see today that there is a debate in principle plus minus eight people, all of the opposition. The position is not in the debate. The position doesn't matter... protect our citizens of Latvia, and this is for a very simple reason. Because in our country, there's a principle of punishing, controlling, monitoring, perhaps threatening in some way... with some PR methods, redistribute and subtract, not help. I'll tell you why that's why our power doesn't help people... and also in the context of this proposal why it does not help people. That's why... These are my subjective feelings, but I have the belief that the majority will agree to them. This is the reason why, in particular, our Heads of State... they are obviously interested in some position after they have ceased to be heads of state of Latvia, and that position is definitely not in Latvia. Therefore, they work for this post, because for other countries to which the leaders of our country are concerned, it is beneficial that Latvia is weakened, that the people of Latvia are leaving... That is - for European countries, for example, it is cheap labour, Latvian cheap labour, which has been tested. And they are interested in Latvians and Latvian Russians and other people leaving Latvia. That is the main reason. It is clear that other countries, where the leaders of our country are seeking post after ministering or Primement, do not need a competitive Latvia, because a competitive Latvia can take away income from these other countries. And that's basically the only argument if we compare historical... Many years ago, there was also a crisis and so-called structural reforms, which were nowhere else in the world, only in Latvia were these structural reforms, and we were told by the Unity of... Just as he now said about the capital repairs, which are so fantasticly wonderful there are and so on, years or how long they have been talking there. And now they talked about success stories, about health care. Until recently, last night or when, Viņķele told us how successful we are with all... in the fight against the community and everything else. But if we compare it, it didn't happen elsewhere in the world, at that time, there was no structural reform anywhere in Europe, there was only in Latvia...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U386	Please return, please, specifically to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U387	Yes, and so is it. All of this is to punish, monitor, withdraw, redistribute, weaken Latvian entrepreneurs, weaken those people who work in the private sector so that these people eventually either: (a) leave or (b) submit to everything they say. The only solution... It is clear that the opposition can agree... These approximately eight members of the opposition, who speak to each proposal for the whole time of adoption of the budget... It is clear that eight Members of the Saeima cannot vote in front of the Inara Mūrnieki voting machine, but this can be done - the vote can - if society is large in number... Tens of thousands of members of society are not afraid to go to the streets. I have called you to this for a very long time. You're getting used to it more and more, my dear society, to it. But this is the only solution, because it is clear that today's budget... Today or tomorrow or tomorrow, no matter how many days we look at here, it is clear that this will be confirmed by the following - which is not beneficial for Latvian society. It is beneficial to our strategic or to some of our partners in Europe or somewhere else. You will be told that there is also a need to coordinate with all the European commissions, although that is not the case. We do not have to observe any financial discipline, we can now actually borrow for our people as much as they need and do as we do in other countries, simply distributing people's aid, without demanding anything about it, not testing it, simply helping. And that is what the crisis should do. That is why the government is also in general designed to help people. Here... Doesn't seem like someone here wants to help from that power. So continue to vote in favour of Karina and you won't be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U388	The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U389	Colleagues! There has just appeared in the public space, where Mr Kariņš is of the opinion that restrictions should now be further strengthened and that support instruments should be reviewed. I think this is the moment when the Saeima must also decide... and give their views on what support instruments should be. Reducing VAT for the sectors most affected is one of the most effective ways in which I think it should be adopted. But without that, I would still like to suggest two things. That's one. Second. If we really want to help entrepreneurs on the substance, the drop in turnover and the level of pay that companies pay for their employees should be assessed not in the last three months, when there was already a difficult economic situation and entrepreneurs were hard to work, but in the light of the period before the first communion crisis, but rather in the last year. Then it would be an objective reading. And the third. There is a need to move away from sectoral restrictions, colleagues. Firstly, in the absence of support instruments to be agreed with the European Commission, the costs of aid have long been expected and to be borne by them. On the other hand, to hit those sectors and companies that actually fall in turnover and that have reduced business due to restrictions. Yes, catering is in the assisted sectors, but for example, one producer of greens, who has supplied their products to the catering industry, cannot receive aid at the moment, despite the fact that, as the catering industry is shrinking, they also do not have business outlets and, in fact, a large part of the greens had to be wasted. That is just one example. I'm sure... But I'm sure you all know where this list is being shot past. I call for support for reduced VAT for catering - it will also be support for our local food producers.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U390	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U391	Dear colleagues, Here, as colleagues have already mentioned, the genre is that only the members of the opposition speak, but at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, when at least there was an opportunity to call a ministry responsible for some answers, the position of the Ministry of Finance with regard to their reduced... the reduced rate offers were such that their reduced rates did not make any sense, only a negative fiscal effect and that their prices were not affected, consumption was not affected, the development of the sectors was not affected, and so on. I'm going to tell you, my colleague, the Minister for Finance, John Reira. I quote: “If we lower the VAT rate, it will in no way reflect the price, so the part that will not enter the state budget goes to the profit of these owners.” And now, my fellow Members, there is, especially that... Amusing to read. The Ministry of Finance now publishes today, so to say, all the famous articles on the budget for next year, and here... It writes from the Ministry of Finance: “The budget. The main benefits for society are the maintenance of a reduced VAT rate of five per cent for fresh fruit, berries and vegetables." And it turns out that, according to the Ministry of Finance, it will promote their consumption, that it will reduce the shadow economy, that it will increase the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and that it will also increase the development of sectors. Well then it turns out that we have the Ministry of Finance as such an order table: as I will say, it all depends on who asks. If the task is assigned by the government, then the reduced VAT rate will promote both consumption - this can, of course, only happen if prices fall, otherwise consumption will not be promoted in any way - and this will increase the competitiveness of businesses and the development of sectors and so on. But if the proposal comes from the opposition, then, no, it will in no way contribute to either consumption or sectoral development - absolutely nothing. And then the question, colleagues: well, what is that credit for the government and the Ministry of Finance in general, including.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U392	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U393	I'll go on. Colleagues, if there is information that the emergency will continue, there will be additional restrictions, so that in some way we hope that there will also be some budget revenue from these catering companies, clearly this proposal must be supported, because quite simply the opposite will happen - those who still survive in these circumstances... they will be further weakened with new restrictions, because some kind of support mechanisms will not reach these entrepreneurs so quickly, they will only reach the big ones. But because you're smaller, because it'll be harder for you to achieve this support mechanism. And the second thing is that these entrepreneurs will be forced to move in the shadow economy, just like... because of these sanctions - let us call it the introduction of restrictions - under very difficult conditions. fruit and vegetables. So, by reducing VAT for these businesses, the shadow economy is also decreasing. In this case, leaving it in force, the shadow economy will only increase. And that will be your responsibility, my fellow Members, that in such a situation we will have given in to really honest entrepreneurs who have been... And really good to see how the catering industry comes out of the shadow economy, where it was, however, for a long time... At the moment, it will be knocked back with a light hand. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for these proposals, in particular, according to the information that has now been said that these restrictions can be further strengthened and will be in the future. However, these incentives are necessary for a period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U394	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U395	In the Commission this is 5. - the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U396	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Jalinska! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 55, for - 3. The proposal is not supported. Time to break. There's also a record of Members. It was a success. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U397	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue after a break. On the agenda the draft law ‘Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act’. So Proposal 6. Member Mārtiņš Stein, on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U398	Thank you. 6. - Proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Yalinska. The intention is to reduce... The reduced VAT rate ‘is applied to supplies of products consisting of acid milk products without additives, milk, fresh or chilled meat and fish and eggs in shells referred to in the Annex to this Law’. In the Commission, proposal 6 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U399	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U400	Colleagues, yes, indeed, this proposal provides for the introduction of a reduced value added tax for groups of essential goods such as fresh meat, fresh fish, dairy products and eggs. And so that you do not think that this is a populist proposal from the opposition (as these are the proposals of the STECF, as well as several other Members have made a similar offer), then I will remind you that Krišjānis Kariņš' Government declaration contains a point of number 70. And that is why the government will look at ways of reducing value added tax for these groups of products. Unfortunately, two years have passed and we have not seen such an assessment at least publicly anywhere, and I think that this is also a good incentive for us, the opposition, to remind us of this promise, and also to offer this as a solution at the moment, at a time of crisis, where tax cuts could really bring many benefits, including support for socially more vulnerable, socially vulnerable groups. Why? Well, because value added tax on primary products and goods is indeed regarded as a regressive tax, because for people with low income levels, the proportion of food products, primary food products, in their basket, accounts for a much higher proportion than in the basket of wealthy people. These product groups are, however, to be recognised as having no too much flexibility in consumption, and it cannot be assumed that there will be a rapid increase in the consumption of the population in the event of a fall in the prices of products other than fish. Because fish (can be seen from the analysis of the Latvian University of Agriculture and other researchers, which is ready)... As prices rise rapidly (and fish have indeed increased in recent years), consumption has fallen. For other products, it is plus minus stable, but without this, by reducing value added tax, we would support the socially more sensitive groups, there would be another additional effect on reducing the shadow economy. And I have to say that it is extremely large in the groups of meat and fish products. Well, it's estimated at about 20 per cent. The analysis shows that if this value added tax is reduced, the share of the shadow economy could be reduced to around five per cent. Well, the positive effect of fair competition is also in favour of those entrepreneurs who do not cheat, who try to work honestly, pay all taxes and who have to compete with those who avoid tax. For dairy products, the share of the shadow economy is five per cent, as for eggs, but in these areas it is also estimated that the shadow economy could be reduced. By reducing this value added tax, of course, it would also be necessary to agree with the big traders, just as the government had experienced in introducing reduced VAT on local fruits, vegetables and berries. The gentlemen agreed that, in fact, prices would be reduced in line with the changes in the tax rate, so that instead of providing additional profits to traders, which is not our task at all, would save the consumer. And the estimates are: if it were really possible to do so, 80 per cent of the savings would in any case be spent on purchasing products and services at the full rate of value added tax, thus ensuring a reversible effect in the state budget. I call for this proposal to be supported. It is true that the government has not come up with such a solution itself, or at least has provided a public analysis of why it should not do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U401	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U402	Yeah, thank you. I suggest that colleagues look at this proposal through the prism at how many people might be affected by this proposal, which is favourable and could allow people to buy more products of this kind, given the tax reform proposed by the government in this budget package, because according to the data added to the budget package, it is obvious that 32 492 people... They are expected to move from the introduction of a minimum payment system to paid employment, and half of 92 536 taxpayers if we take them away from 32... that's about 40,000 people... there is no information at least on what regime they will receive and what income from labour after tax reform, and then I assume that the number of these people could increase either the low-income or the poor. More. The tax reform will also affect 80 938 taxpayers currently operating under the micro-enterprises tax regime. Changes to the tax package in this budget package that will be introduced... It is assumed that 32,059 people will not be able to get... will not generate income in this regime. It is also important to look at the number of poor people planned by the Ministry of Welfare. And we see that next year the Ministry of Welfare has planned that 64,667... the number of poor people will be. And accordingly, the number of persons receiving the guaranteed minimum income benefit is planned according to the Ministry of Welfare - 26 759 people. And the whole category of these people applies to those at risk who receive the minimum or the minimum... rate income, and exactly they are those who consume these products, and exactly they are those to whom this proposal... which could have a positive impact on them by providing them with minimum support in the form of products, providing means. I therefore ask colleagues to support this proposal and to reduce the rate of value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U403	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U404	Dear colleagues, This community's difficult time, in fact, if we had a smart government, could be used as an opportunity to support our entrepreneurs, their producers, all Latvian taxpayers and help everyone out of the shadow economy. The smart government certainly avoids mistakes like this government if we look at an example where a government bans a particular field of beauty, knowing very well that there will be people who, in order to survive in order not to die in hunger, will continue to provide their services to permanent customers and you will not take them away at all. Therefore, if we are talking about the food sector, this issue could also be solved thanks to... Well, you can say, thanks to the situation of the community. If we determine... you have determined yourself, yes, that this budget is a budget for combating the shadow economy, for which, of course, your recent decisions do not definitely indicate, then also this budget would be very well covered with reduced VAT, not only for restaurants and tourism services, but also for food, for first-time food, because we, the opposition, have already pointed out this, too, on several occasions in the debate, that this proposal lays down a very important fight against the shadow economy in certain food sectors. And in this case, we would have an excellent opportunity to sort out the meat market, the egg market and the other issues where we still have a shadow economy. Similarly, we could sort it out, as we arranged the fruit and vegetables sphere. Contrary to the fact that the Ministry of Finance was very strongly opposed - for incomprehensible reasons indeed fought against - we see that the Ministry of Finance has changed its mind and has also praised itself in the budget for finally concessions to the Ministry of Agriculture and the pressure of the opposition. That is why, in this area too, we would have achieved a significant increase in both labour tax and VAT. We could turn this defect, if it can be called, into an effect for the community and come out of the crisis much stronger and fairer. But you, honourable coalition colleagues, do not understand that. I call on you to support and also keep the promises made to voters - especially those colleagues from the coalition who have promised their voters before being elected to the Saeima - to reduce VAT on basic food. We know there's one among you. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U405	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U406	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U407	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Jalinska! Please, let's vote! For - 26, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U408	7. - Dombrovskis's proposal. It is envisaged to apply a reduced VAT rate of 5 % to public catering. In the Commission, the 7th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U409	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U410	Dear colleagues, As you know, the government has taken a decision to actually close the catering sector, allowing food to be given only for reception. Clearly, this means that demand for the public sector... catering services have been cut sharply. And, of course, the question is how many people will lose their jobs, income or how many businesses, restaurants, cafes and so on will be able to survive at all. The government has not actually offered any solution, no policy to... how to support the sector in general. It is clear that, if we apply a reduced VAT rate to the industry, then this reduced VAT rate will also lower the price and this reduced price will increase the demand for services in this sector, at least so as to allow several of this industry to survive. Unfortunately, government policy at this time, colleagues, is that we are, by nature, the greatest protector of the public sector, we are the maximum protector of officials, while private sector entrepreneurs are each in their own right. Here, colleagues, I would also like to show you... Some time ago, two years ago, there's a letter like that... I'll read it to you. This letter is addressed to Janis Jenzis, President of the Latvian Restaurant Society. ‘ Hello, Mr. Jenge! In response to your letter of 21 September 2018 to the Party Association, the New Unity of... “ Colleagues, can you please... Thank you. ‘ ... Latvian Restaurant Society initiative, we inform you that we conceptually support the proposal to apply a 5 per cent reduced VAT rate to the restaurant sector. Arvils Aseradens, Chairman of the Board of the Party Unity” So such a letter, dated 3 October 2018, was sent to the Latvian Restaurant Society. And such a letter - it's not just from the New Unity. I think that every party represented here in the Saeima has such a letter, which, a few days before the elections, was sent to the Latvian Restaurant Society that conceptually agrees with the reduced VAT rate of 5 per cent. And it was before the Comma crisis, before any emergency. Well, here, of course, once again a rhetorical question about those words and deeds, about holding the word. And here, colleagues, it is worth asking a question or analysing how this government then makes decisions. In fact, we see that what is happening is that those decisions on support for one or the other sector have not been made in substance by analysing all the "for" and "no" for the provision of this support that will happen to the sector without support, with support, but decisions are made on the basis of political feudalism, that is to say, which political player, who represents the party, a political party that is currently in favor of a party, is quite strong or not... Well, two classic examples, colleagues, are that we have the Ministry of Agriculture, which we know is under the supervision of the National Alliance, which requires reduced VAT rates for its fruit and so on. And such a rate is granted despite all the negative fiscal effects, and the Ministry of Finance praises this reduced rate that it... There will be more demand, both for the development of the sector and so on. And then we have the Ministry of Economics... CPV LV. Well, obviously no one is interested in what will happen next with CPV LV - whether it will be possible or not for the Minister to introduce reduced rates. I am absolutely sure, colleagues, that if we changed the places of its ministry, if we had the JPV LV to account for the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Association for the Ministry of Economics, then we would today have reduced VAT on hotels and public catering, but we would not have reduced VAT on fruit. And the Ministry of Finance would also tell us how cool it is that we have this reduced VAT rate for hotels and public catering, and that berries and fruits - that is absolutely the worst that could happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U411	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U412	Yeah, thank you. Internal competition between the government-building ministers unfortunately really reflects the sectors. And very sad, in fact, is the fact that it is just one of the sectors most affected by the communion crisis, which is suffering very substantial losses... Very many companies in this area will probably no longer exist after the economic crisis... recovery. There's some... or, in practice, there is also insufficient quality representation and the existence of sufficient quality proposals to protect and support businesses working in the sector. I also add to my colleague's argument that the Ministry of Economics is not... It is a responsive policy, not a pro-active policy in this field... This is what companies feel, their entrepreneurs also tell when they are at the meetings of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, they tell them, they explain the problems they face when they are at the brink of insolvency. However, they still do not receive any tangible instruments, and they are not likely to receive them in the near future, because, in response and in coordination with the European Union, we see that this support could only be available next year. But it is very important, in fact, for people who are now either idle or forced to look for other income. In my opinion, it is important to realise that this sector provided a very tangible flow of tax revenue in the budget in the past. And right at this point, when they need support from the state, on the part of policy-makers... is important... I am asking for support for this proposal, with a view to reducing the VAT rate for those working in this field, particularly in view of the fact that very recently, colleagues, we have supported an additional 10 million in revenue from value added tax by introducing control of the system of disposal on electronic platforms and by saying that purchases on websites from the first euro will be subject to value added tax respectively. I think it would be positive if, at this point, we were to support our local businesses with such a measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U413	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U414	Colleagues! Today, many different proposals for reducing VAT - both 12 per cent and 5 per cent - are presented to your attention. You can choose either because the discussions were both for 5 per cent and for 12 per cent VAT depending on the situation. The Ministry of Economics had always supported this reduced VAT, and only one such small factor was that which hindered the implementation of this idea - the Ministry of Finance. That's why we probably have to agree to what Mr. Kaimiņš said, another 12. At the Saeima, when he gathered many people behind him, Reir is a Communist! And perhaps we cannot disagree with the fact that the greatest evil in this government could actually lie in the Ministry of Finance, because, whatever the ministers may try, the Ministry of Welfare may not, no matter what the Ministry of Economics wants, they always have a wall in front of them - the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. Here I have to say that when we supported the Minister for Economic Affairs in his post in spring and hoped for a positive change, we could not even remember that, in fact, a large part of the government's ministers are merely figures that are allowed a certain square... Walk through a specific area. They do not have the right to carry out their political initiatives, to fight and win their proposal to the end, so that they can succeed in protecting the sectors that they have to take care of. Unfortunately, as we see, everything goes against Reir and Reir is what ruins everything that always... Well, what's the determining factor for all of these... all the initiatives to make them... Let's say, all the initiatives to die. I am therefore very sorry to see that the interests of businessmen in the government are quite weak. Maybe something will change with time. We had a hope in spring, but unfortunately this hope shrunk. Well, Reir... Well, Reir determines everything, unfortunately it is. That's why... Well, we can invite you to support this proposal. We will continue to fight for these proposals. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U415	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U416	I have always been very interested in what the coalition Members do at the time of the adoption of the budget. Well, they probably have a very boring working day - they have to sit all day... But well, the answer to my colleague, Mrs. Julia Stepanenko, is that of the worst evil in the government. Mrs Stepanenko, my very good colleague, the greatest evil is usually allowed by those good people. Well, so this government, for example... This government would not have been a good man, Neighbours. There would be no such law if there were no good people...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U417	On the proposal, Mr. Gobzem!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U418	Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's about public...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U419	On the proposal... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U420	This is about reducing VAT on catering. I'm just...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U421	We haven't heard about it yet. Talk, please, about... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U422	But that's why listen to me, Mrs. Mourniece! You stopped me in half sentence. I have to get to...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U423	Talk to me about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U424	Mrs Mūrniece, I do not need to insert the words "public catering" in every sentence. I'll get to that content in such a way that I just have a sentence construction... And so it's with all the questions! Mrs Mūrniece stopped me, but I will try to restore the idea that I wanted to finish with the issue of reducing VAT on catering. In other words, good people always allow the most evil or evil. So VAT does not reduce catering, because it is allowed by good people - good people who do not argue, good people who allow the ministers concerned to be in such positions; who are timid, fearful and so on. We can, of course, linger the government from morning to evening, but there is evidence of that! - it won't change anything. This government, which may represent in some way both good and evil... It's hard to say... The problem is that good people allow such a government and such a attitude towards catering or any other area - restaurants, hotels, disabled people.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U425	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U426	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U427	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Dombrovskis's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U428	8 / 8 - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. Provision shall be made for a reduced rate to be applied to the supply of foodstuffs which are without additives, milk, bread, fresh meat and eggs referred to in the Annex to this Law. Like the previous... As Dana Reizniece-Ozola and other colleagues... This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U429	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U430	Yes, my colleagues, with a little difference from my previous... the proposal put forward by the colleague... This proposal establishes a reduced VAT rate, in particular for products with a reduced period of validity. So it would be milk without additives, acid milk products without additives and not yogurts that could, say, stand for a long time... foreign imports all those... All that stuff... No... local product... thereby franticly circumventing this ban, imposing preferences only for Latvian products. So the reduced expiry date for yogurts, milk... bread without additives and meat and eggs. Consequently, fish are not yet covered by this proposal. But what is very important is that, once again, there is support for local producers, precisely local, it is aimed at local goods so that, in such an interesting way, you can avoid the application of reduced VAT... maybe foreign products, which stay longer on the shelves of shops - it is milk with an extended term, yogurts with a high sugar content, which in my opinion is no less harmful than, for example, sugar... drinks that have recently been expelled from this comfort zone by coalition colleagues. And like, for example, in Poland, where there are several, let's say, groups of products with reduced VAT, where there are really also preferences for products that are first-needed goods... and where... more targeted on Polish products. We will therefore continue our fight, we will certainly make these proposals more and more. And we know that the Ministry of Agriculture has been working on this... to this proposal, and early or late such a proposal will have to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U431	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U432	Good evening, society! I find this wonderful proposal from my colleague Julia Stepanenko to be fully supported. But I do not know if I will be able to finish my speech, because probably Mrs. Ināra Mūrniece will stop me again: “No to the subject!” But the content of the proposal is exactly the same as that of all the other proposals in the budget. If we talk about taxes - this power, while you, good people, allow it, only raise taxes for you, they do not reduce it in any position. The proposal is about tax reductions, but it will never happen because you are afraid to protest, dear people! You also need to argue about this proposal by Jūlia Stepanenko, to be supported, to go to the streets, to be opposed to Mrs Mūrniece's always stopping me, even though I am talking about it, politely.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U433	The exchange of views on the management of the hearing shall not be permitted. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U434	Hello! Colleagues! What I think needs to be understood is that in the economy many things are linked. One example: What also affects local food producers is the fact that the provision of catering services is currently restricted by law. It is not that only restaurants and cafes find it difficult to work, which means that there are a great many areas, and therefore also local food producers. In my opinion, this is an additional consideration that must be taken into account when we vote on the application of a reduced rate of value added tax on first-needed foods - that it is not only support for the less prosperous part of society (which is a way of reducing inequalities in some way), but also support for local producers - who already have a smaller number of orders - because the food business is limited. Colleagues! If you are not prepared to support this proposal now as a general rule, it is possible to set a time limit (as was done for fruit, vegetables and berries), with transitional provisions, for example, for a period of three years, including criteria. I am convinced that the industry itself will also help you to identify them, but the two that would be significant, especially in the next two years, when perhaps we will have gone out of the crisis slightly, are these: the growth in turnover of basic products and the average increase in wages in the sector. Well, that would also indicate a reduction in the shadow economy. I think that would be a sensible decision. At the moment, taking such measures - as I said - would be support not only for citizens, but also for producers. The more you use such simplely administered support mechanisms, the less you will have to break your head in relation to cut-off benefits and other support instruments that are more difficult to administer with the European Commission. As regards fruit, vegetables and berries, experience from the introduction of a reduced VAT rate shows that the fiscal effect is not at all the way the Ministry of Finance plans. Even in good times, it could be seen that at a reduced rate, at least in the early years, there was even a positive impact, and then it was gradually stabilising. It is also normal, because if the sector has a huge shadow economy, in the first year... In the first years, more savings can be made or, more rightly, a positive effect can be achieved than then. It could be similar in these areas as well, but in any case, even if the Ministry of Finance has any considerations due to the fiscal impact, it should be borne in mind that it would not really be too big in times of crisis... Considering that, as is already the case, the decline in tax revenues is visible and predictable. I call for support for this proposal, seen as such a broader support, a support package - as support not only for citizens but also for local producers.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U435	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U436	In the debate on the wonderful proposal by Julia Stepanenko, I have to say that someone is not under stress, and that is not me, Mrs Murniece. This proposal must be supported because... Because... Well, Dana Reizniece–Ozola said that it helps local producers. And you too, Mrs Mūrniece, as the national Speaker of the Saeima (at least you think of yourself) should vote in favour of this proposal, but you will vote against this proposal and you will probably turn my microphone off again. And therefore, all suppliers of milk, eggs, bread and all other products - they also have to get up and go on the streets. You have to go to the streets and defend your right to this power that does not help people. It's the only solution, there's no other solution, there's no miracles. This power will never take care of people, it will never reduce VAT, it will never help those in need. It will not help local entrepreneurs, it will not help local producers, it will not help local food traders, and so on. This will never happen. Dear people, with ginkling in sofas will not be likened, this power must be overcome. That's what we... We've been having a debate for years. Learn to go on the streets! This is the only solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U437	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U438	In the Commission, the 8th proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U439	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U440	9. - The proposal from Member Slurry. Identical for proposal 8. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U441	There is no vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U442	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Reiznieces-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and In the Commission, proposal 10 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U443	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Dana Reizniece–Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U444	Colleagues! This is unfortunately one of those proposals which were not only not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, but which were also not the subject of a debate on the substance. It was given the floor to the industry, to the opposition, but none of the coalition's representatives answered why the tax reduction promised for the industry in 2019 by introducing a value added tax rate of 5 per cent (this was in force until 2008, and apparently because of the crisis, the rate was increased) is not implemented in life, always looking for some reservations... reservations that this is not the current issue. And the last of the letters from... Jointly prepared by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance... industry, it was, how to say... The ball went to the long hall, saying that it will certainly be the issue of tax reform. Well, at the moment we see that taxes are being substantially changed for next year, but since the government does not call it a reform, wait for the sector when the real reform will take place. I am absolutely convinced that there will be no further reforms... tax reforms, where the book industry could also expect a reduced value added tax. In 2019 the cultural sector itself offered measures that could have a positive impact on the revenue of the state budget, noting that the reduced value added tax rate could ensure a higher increase in salaries for the employees of the book industry; it was about 10 percent at the time. Now, in times of crisis, to demand such an increase... such a requirement - it would, of course, be quite risky, it would not be justified, but in any case it is a message of good will from the industry itself. The authors and translators of books would be provided with a fair amount of royalties paid. In this situation, I think, when the government is also planning to make substantial increases in royalty payments... If at least the industry were to have more resources, then there would also be resources to pay social contributions and higher personal income tax rates to the authors of royalties agreements. This is another additional argument why this, in my opinion, is an important proposal. The industry also offered to participate in programmes implemented by the National Library of Latvia, such as the reading promotion programme, providing part of the funding necessary for the purchase of books, as well as many other activities. And it is interesting that the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zakatistov, mentioned at this meeting such a factor that the fiscal impact will not be the basis for a decision on the introduction of a reduced rate of value added tax of 5 per cent. It would be interesting to hear what are the considerations taken into account by the Ministry of Finance and coalition partners at the moment when deciding on this matter. It's not nice getting back from the Ministry of Culture... which is, in fact, an opinion on behalf of the government, saying to the industry that yes, reading skills, quality literature are an important issue of national security, self-confidence and yet different epithets, and then followed by "but" - there are different reasons why there is no reduction in the tax rate. Another factor - I hope that you also heard this - colleagues, those who were in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and will also correct this case - is what Mrs Kilbok said - that the letter from the Ministry of Culture mentions that the reduced value added tax is currently being applied to electronic books and expenditure. That's not true. At present, the purchase and download of electronic books requires the payment of a full tax rate, which is actually the highest in the countries of the European Union. And knowing that, at present, both study materials and other books are increasingly used by people in the electronic environment, of course, this would be one area that needs to be arranged. That is why this proposal is for both printed books and electronic books... But it could be just as well shared - at least in one area this reduced rate could be introduced. At least not to disseminate incorrect information on behalf of the government itself! This proposal... Now it's a termed... , but in fact it would certainly be worth considering as a permanent norm. I call for the vote in favour to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U445	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U446	Madam President, Colleagues! This is, in my opinion, a very important proposal and a proposal, and I call on it to be supported, despite the fact that... It would really be an important support for Latvia's development, for Latvian readers. First. If the books were reduced by VAT, almost all people could buy them, despite their current limited economic or financial income, but in any case, they could also buy books of Latvian literature and Latvian poets, which are actually published by the publishing houses, and we have writers and poets who have resumed this movement and write good literature (this is also reflected in the desire to translate these works). In any case, this would allow... enable citizens to buy our national literature, which is very important for cultural development. Secondly. If book prices were reduced, they could also be purchased by those teaching Latvian language and literature, so teachers would also be able to buy them, and perhaps they would be easier to buy and can be found in our libraries as well. And thirdly. My proposal (a little later, probably some day later) is to talk about the creation of a national literacy programme. It has to be said that the Ministry of Culture currently supports, for example, activities of the Children's Literature Centre with quite serious funding, but this will not solve the common problem of reading skills. Latvia is now almost... one of the rare (European context) countries that do not have a national literacy programme at a time when digital skills are very important. Teachers have certainly noticed, and they know, that reading digital texts is different from reading printed texts. Therefore, it is essential that these value added tax reductions be given to any text or literature in any form - not only in printed form, but also in digital form. If we do not currently offer the opportunity to buy texts or to buy books at a cheaper price and work with them, we will also not support the national programme of reading skills, especially for children between three and five years of age, who are likely to be mainly involved in obtaining information in future life (leadering, poetry... Well, we feel) from digital texts, so our overall achievements, including those of the OECD countries, will probably not grow. Reading literacy is, as we know, one of the skills behind how children learn, how children get information, and it is not essential at the moment whether it is digital or printed, but it is essential to learn to read either printed text or digital text. So all those who think about Latvia as a developing or supporting country of national culture should also support publishers, especially those who publish books in Latvian at this point. Once again, our offer of writers and poets is very much appreciated. So... If this happens in Latvia, then it will be possible to promote it, it will also be possible to tell about it to those Latvians who live outside Latvia (including those who have emigrated due to the economic situation). They will have the opportunity to obtain it either in writing, in printed form, or in digital form and to promote it. And it could also promote the interest of our colleagues, residents of other countries, in Latvian national literature. This point, of course, is linked to the following opportunity: to develop our culture and language (at this moment I think Latvian and literature). Thus, I really invite you to support or evaluate the possibility of supporting it in the medium-term budget - both book publishers in Latvia, including those who publish school literature as reading material in digital or printed form, as well as those who teach to read books, to interest in Latvian literature. This is really essential support - if not in 2021, then at least from 2022. I agree that the measure should be limited in time, because, when the economy recovers... especially when looking at the total income of our citizens... When they come back, the book would be worth it again... to a certain extent, also because of the price. As we know, the expenses of Latvian writers and poets are quite expensive, as it is a matter of interest to the people of Latvia in the first place. And it would be good to read more during the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U447	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U448	Colleagues! I would like to highlight one important point with this proposal. This proposal, too... It has been promised to the industry in 2019 that such changes will exist, and in this case it is not respected in any way. This is the next budget where a large part of the sector has to face, well in a way, such disappointment. If the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance say - there are other circumstances right now... That is the case - there are other circumstances! We need to think about how to support sectors. One way is by supporting instruments that the government can offer. The other thing is tax policy. And in this case too... I think if this value added tax rate is reduced, it will only contribute to the existence of these people in the normal tax regime; the government and the Saeima will show that they listen to these people. And that's how we can build... I think that the Saeima is currently experiencing such a very grim situation as regards citizens' confidence in the Saeima, and this confidence is being undermined for exactly the following reasons. At the moment, opposition Members are dealing with monologue in this vebinary and are doing this alone - speaking - trying to convince each other. The coalition Members are watching all of this and are not involved in this debate in any way, which, in principle, undermines the fundamental nature of their Parliament that there is still a debate. And no one tells us how much this proposal will cost. The budget and financial (tax) commission does not have a debate in nature, there is a simple vote; the position of the government is being supported - and that is all! Without any study! But at the same time... The same coalition party representatives have promised these changes to these sectors in the past; tax changes were promised in the elections, and all of this has now been forgotten. And that's why I call here again... Perhaps the rapporteur responsible for the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... perhaps explain what was in the Commission for this debate. It is clear from the previous speakers that the debate was not at all, but in this case, I think there would be a need for clarification, because only the representatives of the opposition to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission debated within the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. And here you should have some clarification, something... I call on colleagues to engage in a debate so that this is not such a pure exercise of the opposition when the opposition tries to convince, but... Well, we're talking like an empty place. So, colleagues, I call for us to engage in a debate on these proposals. The approach that you are taking today is not really normal. We will not get tired, we will continue to debate, we will continue to talk about these proposals, but in order for the public to have an understanding of why they have not been supported, I call on you to engage in a debate and to explain it in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U449	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U450	In the Commission, proposal 10 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U451	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal by Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Koite, Bergmanis, Dūklavs and Jalinska! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 52, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U452	11. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal, which provides for a reduced VAT rate of 12 per cent, to apply to hospitality and catering. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U453	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U454	Colleagues! I will also remind you that none of our proposals in this draft law, if I remember correctly, were debated within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. So the Ministry of Finance's vision of why didn't... about why not now, and about why not exactly this sphere... And so it is really a shame that we do not get any counter-response, no answer, no promises in the future to deal with all this. My proposal is a little different from that of my fellow Members, because it is perhaps the least radical of all the proposals we have just spoken about. So, 12 percent of hospitality services - that would mean that, so, those services that are connected with accommodation... These would include, for example, various excursion services, rental services, various beauty treatments connected with tourist accommodation, and so on, and so on. Thus, for example, the 12 percent would remain for the time being, but they would be able to attract customers with a much more interesting range of services that would have a more friendly price and consequently reduced VAT. As we know, at present all these services related to accommodation, side-by-side services... they do not have this reduced VAT... And, of course, also about catering... Let's repeat, the same 12 percent... Let us call on you fellow Members to support - now let us call for the support of fuel once! - these proposals. So, colleagues, the least radical proposal... Maybe this time, maybe this time! - you will be able to vote in favour. So 12 percent - reduced VAT for catering and hospitality services related to the provision of accommodation services. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U455	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U456	Colleagues! After a previous speech, I see that I have caused at least such a slight scent to the rapporteur of the committee responsible, calling for an explanation of the previous proposal. But I urge you to explain this proposal! And what the opposition draws attention to is that the opposition sends out a very clear signal that, if such rates remain, this will represent an unbearable burden for entrepreneurs and that entrepreneurs can find themselves in a situation in which they will be forced to switch to the shadow economy. Not for good will, but for the fact that it will be a choice between the liquidation of the company and the operation of the shadow economy, where a number of these entrepreneurs have already been. And years have been needed to get these entrepreneurs into the normal economy so that they no longer have the desire to operate under the shadow economy. Now... These are our reflections on what will happen if such very high rates remain. Of course, international competitiveness must also be taken into account, and it cannot only be on the local population... I also have to look at the international scene. And there... these professional organisations have made it clear that these rates should be reduced. As Julia Stepanenko rightly said, this is... the easiest of the proposals that have been made today. We therefore call for support for this proposal. Otherwise please explain how and by whom these entrepreneurs will receive support mechanisms, how they will be and how the government will avoid the risks that we are mentioning today. It's about these entrepreneurs getting into the shadow economy or... in the worst case scenario, it will simply be at the threshold for liquidation. And a number of companies have already disappeared, including large companies that are already at the stage of insolvency. And what exactly is the government, the Saeima, doing to come against these companies? We offer today... Here's this particular... Of course, the immediate form of support... how to come against economic operators. As well as Vjačeslav Dombrovskis... already mentioned earlier about this strange approach to fruit and vegetables... and it is a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture that... There, you see, the shadow economy will diminish, but on these issues... What, then, are they different? There's nothing different! This one, too... In this way, it is only possible to encourage more use of these products, more purchase. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support this proposal and not to sit in comfortable chairs, not to look at how the Saeima's opposition is debating, but to engage in this debate and to convince you that either we are wrong... as such circumstances result in the opposition pointing to errors and the Saeima voting in silence. In silence you can enter a very deep ditch, and this deep ditch is already the prestige of the Saeima, for which much responsibility must be assumed by coalition parties. Thank you. And I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U457	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U458	Yes, next year, government ministers will get more pay. Yes, next year, the Minister for Economics will also get more salary and, of course, all the government-building ministers will also receive slightly more funds for representation expenses every month. But companies working in the sector will not receive income at all or receive only benefits. And you can't know when they'll get, if they get those benefits or support mechanisms. And then it's a question of what merits, what concrete results to achieve by government ministers... and, in particular, an economic minister, who should have been pro-active in defending the companies in the sector, both in the catering sector and in the tourism sector, who should have come forward with proposals, to come forward with explanations, to participate in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission during the discussions of the package and to explain the situation, or at least to say what time period and what proposals will be put forward. In my opinion, it is not too ethical to get an increase in remuneration for the Minister for the Economy when practically all companies operating in the sector operating in the areas affected by the Covid-19 are experiencing very, very significant cuts in income, or even being absent, are not working. People are without income, people are unconscious. And no one from the government can also explain when it will end and when they will receive, specifically on a date, what supporting mechanisms and measures. I believe that this proposal should be supported, as the opposition in this case offers a small instrument to ensure the competitiveness of this sector in the future. Without the introduction of appropriate measures, in any case, a wave of bankruptcy is expected for those working in this field. I ask my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U459	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U460	Highly honourable members of the coalition! I have this question: why are you silent? It's for you... What should be done is quite simple - say: here you offer reduced VAT rates for catering and hotels, but we have other, better solutions, how to support these industries in these times; our solutions are and are, and we have evidence based on policy, and we have assessed our solutions, compared our solutions with those you offer, and our government offers are better than yours... Therefore and therefore, and therefore; figures, figures are such, evidence is such. But since you all sit down and remain silent, from that, colleagues, the only conclusion is that you have no idea what your government is proposing to do in these areas. You just don't have any idea, you don't have any... No proof, not anywhere else based... absolutely nothing! Because the government, in both catering and hotels, especially... does not plan to do anything. Is it a separate minister, then, who comes from a party that has a rating?... How much is that half a percent? and which no longer bothers anyone. And when the elections come... We think that what we are going to say is that, here, it was the responsibility of the political party KPV LV, we are not to blame for it. This “KPV LV” minister was unable to convince our government that there was a need for anything at all for these sectors. You think you'll be able to get through all this. But I think the people are not so stupid, colleagues. That's why I call you, however... All right, you don't want to lose your face right now and you don't have anything to say. So you... The next coalition meeting is on Monday, ask the leaders of your political groups to ask their ministers, your government. Or maybe... Even better: colleagues, we call on the Prime Minister here, to the Saeima, to establish a new tradition so that the Prime Minister can at least come to the Saeima once a month and answer Members' questions, as happens in the parliaments of many other democratic countries - without any pre-arranged questions, but so that every Member, including the opposition Member, and you, fellow Members of the position, can ask your Prime Minister and that he or she can answer these questions without the help of his or her officials or ministers or any other help! And then let's ask him, What's going on now? Why is public administration protected by one hundred percent? Even not only spared, we even... the government even offers itself an increase in remuneration in the future. The President offered it some time ago. But what happens in the private sector with those who suffer from this pandemic... and this is primarily tourism and the catering industry... With regard to these people, you have the position that you are yourself, all of you, each of you, say... That is why I call on you, my fellow Members, to change this attitude in some way. That's the autumn of 2022 - it's not as far as you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U461	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U462	Colleagues! Over the next three years, the medium-term budget is EUR 4.1 million to strengthen the national image, the LIAA EUR 1.37 million each year. What is the point, colleagues, state image to strengthen, promote Latvia, let people come here to relax, let people come here to work, live and do business, if, after all, there will be no businessmen here who are able to provide a normal tourism service or public catering, because, most probably, after such a tax policy, after so many support measures by the government, the only ones who will be able to, what foreign guests will be able to entertain here, perhaps, SIA “Saeima” or the joint stock company “The Cabinet of Ministers”? Colleagues! At the last sitting of the Saeima, when we discussed opposition proposals in the context of tax policy, one coalition Member said that he was an entrepreneur that he had a great business experience. Well, after today's votes and even after the lack of vigor and activity at all... honoring the public, honouring the opposition with a debate, with its participation in the debate on one or the other proposal... It is obvious that this Member, a former entrepreneur, has had his business experience so long ago that he has already forgotten, as it is, when you have to think every day about paying wages to your employees, how to pay social contributions, how to draw ends together so that you can pay monthly bills. This proposal is just a little bit - a little bit! - to help mitigate the crisis situation faced by all operators, in particular those working in the tourism sector and catering. I call for this proposal to be supported. If you can't today, then tomorrow... then the government will meet in its own government... probably again in a secret session and will decide on support measures. Then keep in mind what has been said today, and come with proposals that will really support entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U463	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U464	Yes, to reduce VAT - it is not, of course, a bonfire or to condemn Russia and to prey on such minor issues. This is a serious work for the benefit of Latvian society. And within the framework of this serious work, I would call not only for a position, as my fellow Members, but also for the largest groups of the opposition - the Group of the Greens - to participate in this debate and to express my opinion on whether or not we need it or not, and why. The evidence is needed to support, as reduced VAT for restaurants, catering, hotels... how it will refer to the Latvian economy. Well, it is clear to me, of course, how this debate will end. This debate will continue to be the same - these eight Members will speak, the debate, the rest of the Saeima will keep quiet and press the buttons, and I will finally vote. But budget law seems to me to be the only law in which power parties in a democratic, developed country to which we are going, especially in the Nordic country, show in particular... demonstrate to the public why they do not support or support relevant ideas, especially when it comes to times of crisis. And I remember, when it was the first decision to... actually about the state of emergency in spring, the coalition of power said that there will be no more positions and opposition, and all of us must work together for our country. And now that you submit normal proposals... I think it is to a certain extent a lack of respect for society - to reject these proposals, for example, because they have been submitted by the opposition. I don't understand how much, let's say, there's such undervalue complexes. What is the difference between making a good proposal to the country? If a position is making a good proposal, for example, I also voted in favour of it - 'in favour', despite the fact that it is, I do not know, tabled by Mrs Mūrniece. I don't know the case, but that's the case. The same applies to the opposition proposals. I have this artificial game, which is harmful to the state of Latvia, without voting on rational, logical proposals, then trying to... After a month, two, when one of Latvia's people has gone or gone again, I do not understand. It is not aimed at defending the interests of Latvian society. All of us, Members of the Saeima, sweared that we would work for the benefit of Latvian society. Now it does not seem that the majority of those with a majority of votes work for the benefit of Latvian society. They vote against logical, rational proposals... Whereas, as other developed countries do, especially in times of crisis. And even there is no argument against! Well, what told you, the sponsors or Karin told you, was the coalition council, or the group leaders? What makes you keep quiet, press that button? Doesn't I know if there's a fear of getting out of my own group or something like that? Is that so? And this is the unlovingness of people, the unlovingness of people of Latvia that we face, such indifference towards the people of Latvia - with the hope that after one or two years or two, when there is no parliament, people will have already forgotten, there will be advertising campaigns and will be able to equalize everything and work on it again! But time is changing. And, as we see, Latvian society is also beginning to recover gradually. The emptyer the refrigerator, the more it will be. And these votes against reducing VAT are only increasing their emptiness in the refrigerator. So be careful, coalition! The measure of the people's patience is also of no size. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U465	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U466	Dear colleagues, It is most likely that we could come to a situation where, if you support this reduced VAT, for which I have very great doubts, then, with the entry into force of this reduced VAT, it would be more rapid to support entrepreneurs than the long-awaited and perhaps unexpected support that you can still not reconcile with the European Commission. We have already confirmed today that this support actually comes somewhere... with feet probably coming from Europe. And when that support comes, no one knows. And the fact that several restaurants were forced to simply close their doors because... such restaurants were not profitable to continue their work, the services they provided were specific and the reception was not what the restaurants had, say, specified. This, of course, places enormous pressure on the social budget at the moment. We will soon feel that way. And again will be the fault of the Ministry of Welfare (a miracle of yours!) who can't and can't count anything again. And who will be responsible for all this? That is what we have already found today. So, unfortunately, the slowness of the Ministry of Economics... On 13 May, we can read that the Ministry of Economics was quite spicy in defending the interests of its employees in the sector. There is a complete silence at the moment. Therefore, honourable journalists, please be so good, ask these quiet colleagues why there is no reduced VAT? When will VAT be reduced? Perhaps you will be able to turn to our colleagues who do not want to answer at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U467	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U468	This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U469	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 51, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U470	12. - The proposal from Member Slurry. Identical 11. Not supported and not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U471	There is therefore no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U472	13. - An offer by Reizniece-Ozola, Dauges, Bergmanis, Dūklavs, Valaiņa and Jalinska. Provision is made for a reduced rate of 12 per cent for domestic tourism service providers. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U473	Let's start a debate. The name is Dana Reiznieks–Ozolas.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U474	Yes, colleagues, this proposal provides for the application of a reduced rate of value added tax to domestic tourism services. Currently, Article 136 of the Value Added Tax Law provides that zero interest added value tax applies to tourism services provided outside the European Union, while domestically it is the standard rate. Well, a lot of arguments have already been heard about why it is necessary, at least temporarily, to reduce the tax rate in order to support a sector which is indeed one of the most important victims of the community. I also understand those entrepreneurs who, when we discussed these proposals in advance at the time of the Covid-19 bill... which indicate that Latvia is not only a tourism sector and only a public catering sector, that very many others (Someone was dissipated.) ... colleagues were in the background - so it's true... there are many other entrepreneurs and sectors, which are also severely suffering, but one hundred percent of the drop in turnover is actually seen in spring, mainly in the tourism industry. And this is then one of the practical proposals, as I said. In my opinion, a reduction in the VAT rate will not require you to have complicated administration, you will not have to make any new IT systems again, as is the case in the context of planned tax changes for the following year, so that you can manage this amount of aid, and you will not then have to correct errors and justify that there was such an abnormally large amount of work, that the SRS was wrong, paid out unduly late benefits, which should then be returned to the economic operators. There are no such risks here. I call for support. I think that industry will really appreciate this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U475	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U476	Yeah, thank you. In the documents accompanying the draft budget drafts, the Cabinet of Ministers pointed out that next year it is planned to reduce mission expenses to the Cabinet of Ministers by only 20 percent. And this reduction will bring about two million savings in the state budget. In my opinion, it would be very positive to support the introduction of a reduced rate of value added tax by providing that mission expenses could be reduced (in view of the continued spread of co-infection and the corresponding restrictions continue) by 40 or 60 per cent. And I think that very many issues can really be solved on a number of digital platforms that provide both operational communication and communication, and also security systems are now at a high level enough to ensure confidentiality or confidentiality of information. I therefore propose that this proposal be supported and that in the future, next year, the Cabinet of Ministers (Ministers) and those working in the public administration make a very significant reduction in mission expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U477	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U478	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U479	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The motion by Reizniece-Ozola, Many, Bergman, Dūklav, Valaiņa and Jalinska! Please, let's vote! - 31, 58, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U480	14. There is a proposal from Member Stepanenko. It is envisaged to apply a reduced rate of duty of zero to supplies of oral and nasal lids with certified medical masks, non-medical hygienic or fabric face masks or facial shields. In the Commission, proposal 14 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U481	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U482	Colleagues, not only in Latvia are discussions about abolishing tax on masks, but also in other countries there is a debate about the fact that the obligation imposed on citizens by the government to wear certain items, so in this case medical masks or non-medical hygienic masks or facial shields... most likely it would only be fair if the government... if VAT on these transactions is not added to the public budget. It would not be right for the country actually to be at the expense of these new responsibilities, because, as we know, it is not possible to make purchases without a mask at the moment, without a mask it is impossible to drive in public transport, without a mask it cannot be in public space, and who knows at all what our dear government will decide tomorrow with regard to new restrictions. We can only mention it. So I think it's only logical for this time - we probably don't have to wear it for long - so, while the same Covid-19 law is in force, for example, to lay down the same Covid-19 law on the spread of infection rather than the reduced... to grant this exemption from VAT to certain masks, to certain items, which are not aftermade from China (they pay VAT), but to certified medical masks, which we have quite a few, but we also need to support the manufacturers of these masks and support them, to encourage the sale of these masks too, so that people buy masks that will really protect them if they need it and not simply carry some paper on their faces. So that there should be an exemption from VAT for hygienic tissue masks that are washable, with three layers, as laid down in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, and face shields, which, as we know, are also produced by our entrepreneurs in Latvia. Colleagues, therefore, if a country has additional responsibilities, then the country should not - shouldn't! - to collect from each purchase, from each of these masks additional VAT. This is not fair, because if we come back to the decision tomorrow that something will have to be carried with you every time, for example, some basket, then you will also get VAT for that basket. And if you figure out that tomorrow everyone has to walk with skis, then everyone will buy skis, because otherwise they won't be able to go anywhere. Well, government decisions can be different, as I say, we are waiting here with the impatience that the government will come up with once again. But if the government concludes that without a particular object you can't move, you can't get basic services, then this particular object... if you can't ensure that this object is free of charge for people... All of you... then at least ensure that no VAT is charged on this item. I think it's just logical, if not otherwise... then I just, well, I understand... I call on you, colleagues, to support this proposal. I will also continue to talk about this reduced VAT or the abolition of VAT; I will continue to make the following proposals. If not zero percent, maybe at least five percent, but it must be that these masks must not have VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U483	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mr. Gobzem!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U484	And you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U485	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U486	It's very good you can hear me. So first. First, carrying masks is pointless in itself. The Swedish State (A Sound Break) ... Secondly, even if you have to wear pointless masks, it's anti-constitutional because you don't want to buy food, water... food bans on buying - that is against any human rights. A gross violation of human rights...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U487	Mr. Gobzem... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzem continues to speak, but the words are unheard.) The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U488	Colleagues! In addition to what I have said, I would like to point out perhaps those who have not gone into the matter. So there are different VAT applications for these masks at the moment. Certified medical masks are a medical commodity, they currently have 12 percent VAT, and I also call for it to be reduced to zero. Other masks that are not medical, which may be medical, because it could be written on the boxes... but if you buy them at the pharmacy and if the check is 21 percent VAT, then it is not any medical mask, it is simply a decorative or cosmetic mask - anything, but not medical. So these masks too... so that its masks remain with our 21 per cent VAT, we should not reduce them, because these masks must be removed from the market at all. This is not a healthy product. Certified medical and hygienic washing masks that people use several times, which are also being distributed to the low-income... Consequently, they should also set a zero rate of VAT. That is the explanation. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U489	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U490	Thirdly, the masks must be distributed for free to people if they are mandatory, even if they are pointless and violate human rights. They must be distributed for free...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U491	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U492	In the Commission, this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U493	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 30, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U494	Proposal No 15 is identical to proposal No 14 and is from Member Slaughter.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-23-PT13-2145-U495	Dear colleagues, So let us debate this proposal after a break. Dear colleagues, Members Pavilut, Ples, Stein, Papule and Bondar ask for a break by 9 a.m. on November 24 of this year. We must vote on this. Please open the section. Can we vote? We will vote for a break at the Saeima sitting by 9 a.m. on November 24th this year! Please, let's vote! For - 88, for - 2 and for - 1. Decision adopted. There's also a record of Members. It was a success. Interruption until 9 a.m. on November 24 ( Interruption)
