ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U1	Honourable Members! Let's start the first remote emergency sitting on November 26th this year! On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U2	Hello, honourable Mrs. Mourniece! Colleagues! Consequently, the draft law ‘Amendment to the law on maternity and sickness insurance’. In some words, in a simpler language, again on the essence. Thus, the institution of education is closed, the child is under 10 years of age (including), and the parent can take this 14-day sickness benefit; or the child with a disability under 18 years of age, and the centre of the day he attends is closed because of the community, and so the parent can claim this 14-day sickness benefit. Once - this year, once - next year. Five proposals were received for the second reading. All of them are proposals from the Social and Labour Commission. The proposal provides that this benefit will not be available from 2 December, as was the case in the draft submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, but from 30 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U3	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U4	Yeah. Hello, colleagues! It is very good that the Commission has looked at how to start these benefits more quickly. However, in view of the urgency of this draft law, I would like to point out, however, that this allowance is, in principle, a quick solution, as revealed this morning at the meeting of the committee, and will, in principle, only help families with one child; families where this case of a community has joined only once in a happy manner, or will not have joined at all, and should not be eligible for this allowance. But there is a potential risk of leaving behind the door and without the support of families with several children in different educational establishments. And in view of the speed with which this draft law was examined and the fact that, after the first reading, several members of the Commission had the impression that this allowance would apply on a case-by-case basis and to every child, Mr Skride was asked to clarify it again and, if that is not the case, to arrange matters within the Commission. I understand, of course, that time has been short to go into sufficient depths, but today, in the Commission's sitting, it was rushed forward, despite the reservations about discrimination against large families, for example. And that is unacceptable. I would also expect our welfare minister, Mrs Petravičas, to present a debate now and explain why such potential discrimination has been allowed and make a promise to correct it for the period after 1 January. Because it is likely that by December, families will be able to get involved in one - time situations. I would also call on Mr Skride to listen to the reservations in the future and not to drive a tank, to forgive, to cross the unnegotiated issues that are of concern, simply because someone, here, will now start a group meeting or has to rush somewhere. It's not responsible! And in principle, for the period after 1 January, a situation will now be created that will also allow potential risks of fraud with sick leave, and only because parents will be desperate. But the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs did not have time. And, you know, colleagues, what do I blame for? Not Mrs. Petraviča, but the Saeima. And for every Member, these desperate parents will be allowed to ask - what they need to do when their second grade, to whom the school has closed in January, has used the allowance, but in February they will have to stay at home with their kindergarten. So come, Mrs Petraviča, in the debate and explain whether you will fix it or whether we, Members, should correct the brother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U5	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U6	Dear colleagues, On such parental support system... We spoke to parents who raise children with disabilities, parents who raise young students, already in the first wave. We called for attention to be paid to this situation. The fact that this solution is hasty shows that the government has unfortunately failed to prepare for the second wave this summer and the beginning of the autumn. And the fact that the solution must be searched within a day, just like the benefit - support system for entrepreneurs - does not really prove good practice. I also have no personal understanding of the legal technique employed in relation to all these solutions to the emergency situation. We have an emergency order. That's one. Hence, the amendments to the order that enter and enter. Second. We have the code of government law. We will now see if you try again to adapt it to the current situation with new amendments. And then we still have regular laws in which we now put in various new things. Are we really right in terms of the system - let us say we need to act operationally in one area, such as the community - in this law to put all the support mechanisms together by discussing and correcting the errors that may have arisen because of the rush, not to mention all these aid stages, the support mechanisms under different laws? Of course, yes, it is a question of the system and of how we deal with it in general from a legislative point of view. There can be a really big poodle, because I can see now, too, with regard to the Coud's law... If we talk about this today, I will have a lot of different questions regarding the validity of regulations issued by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of this law and the application of different regulations. Here I would like to point out that, yes, it is really very difficult to resolve such things in one day. I share Mrs Muižniece's concerns that perhaps these proposals and arrangements for the reimbursement of parents' actual education with their child should have been discussed in a more orderly manner. But it is clear that the Ministry of Education and Science in this case or the Ministry of Health... I do not know, colleagues who are currently running the country - perhaps it is Mrs Viņķele, who in the Cabinet of Ministers determines what we have to close today and what we have to pull on our face today, and what we have to pull tomorrow, I do not know on our feet. I don't know who leads the country. Maybe she is. But I think the Ministry of Education and Science was supposed to be ready for such a turnaround and therefore, along with the welfare sphere, try to start thinking about possible support mechanisms. Well, it was nothing... It was no surprise that Mrs. Viņķele is quite unpredictable with her various proposals, so these three meters per child and a mandatory face mask teacher within hours... You may have been ready for this, so the Ministry of Education and Science was likely able to anticipate these innovations. Therefore, I also, of course, call for support when I share these concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U7	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U8	Hello! Good afternoon, everybody! As we can see from the public space, the demission of the Minister for Education and Science Šuplinska from the New Conservative Party is actually required. It has been rightly requested, as this issue should have been resolved already in spring. Throughout the summer, it was talked about and it was pointed out that the Ministry of Education and Science and its Minister, and the New Conservative Party, have done nothing in the field of education to deal with the issue of support for both teachers and parents of children... the education system as a whole. It was known in spring... and the same politicians who are in power talked about the second wave expected in the autumn. And now again through the head of the neck to catch, rub, correct what hasn't been done. This is just proof of the incompetentness of the Minister, of the incompetentness of the new conservative party in the field of education and also of the system of human support. I fully share what the previous colleague said, because it is clear that this should have been regulated and supported by such regulation. And I have a call in this whole context for teachers not only to ask the Minister for a resignation, but to go on a comprehensive strike to achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U9	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to make it clear once again that this is a sickness benefit. So if a kindergarten group or a school is closed in Class 1-4, the parent is given the opportunity to stay at home with his children. Sickness benefit is never paid depending on the number of children at home. Whether you have one sick child at home with whom you stay or three, the sickness benefit is (A sound break.) ... the amount. As a result, this sickness benefit is also paid by the parent to enable him to stay at home. And there is no discrimination here. Whether your parent stays at home with one child or with five children. The older the opportunity to be at home with a child if it is under 10 years of age. Or we came back when it was an adult visiting the center of the day. Or a child with disabilities under 18 years of age, and general educational institutions are closed - they are moving to a remote regime. So we shouldn't mix it up here and talk about any kind of discrimination. Sickness benefit is an opportunity for the parent to stay at home. And the order of calculation is 60 per cent of the salary, not 80, as is the case with the sickness benefit, because neither personal income tax nor social tax is deducted from the sickness benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U11	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U12	Good morning, colleagues! Of course, the idea is to be supported, but the speech is now and it has been tried... Members are trying to address both Mrs Petraviča and the entire Cabinet. This is about the quality of decisions. Is this solution really optimal? Does it cover all the population groups that will have difficulties under the last restrictions adopted by the Crisis Management Board and the Cabinet of Ministers? Of course not. And for my part, I would like to thank Mr Skride for listening as Head of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Well, for example. We said yesterday that there would still be a need for support, as in this case, for mothers of unborn children. What is it? Women who are pregnant, especially in the first semester, when there is a very high risk of losing a child or harming an unborn child are afraid of both infection and any threat that is now increasing during the pandemic. And they would like to stay at home to protect themselves, but not just themselves, of course, also the unborn child. And all doctors understand that it is the first trimester when, from the point of view of employment relations, a woman as an employee has no privilege... But it is if we are talking about the health of an unborn child that is the most dangerous period that affects the health of all the future baby. Mr Skride said that they could think about this idea in the Commission, but by continuing with this move of their thoughts, I will call on the Cabinet to include representatives of the opposition in the Crisis Management Board today, because we are losing time in the debate on proposals on which decisions have already been taken. Furthermore, decisions whose quality is questionable, which are even referred to today by the position representatives. Therefore, it would be only logical and for the benefit of all the people and the state - please, that representatives of the opposition in the Saeima should be included in the Crisis Management Board, because our ideas are those that could help both the state and any citizen, because we also have information from our voters who are residents of Latvia, and only this collection of information, only joint positions and work of the opposition can contribute to making decisions that would really be of quality. Because if we are talking about the last restrictions developed by the MK, you could open social media and make sure that people react, that they... The fact that all of this already gives rise to mems, jokes and so on shows that the quality of these decisions is not only questionable, but also ridiculous. I call on you to include the opposition in the Crisis Management Board! This will accelerate our work and promote trust on the part of the people to the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U13	The name of the Member Anita Muižniece for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U14	Yes, hello, colleagues, again! And I turn to Mrs. Petraviča. I do not know if you have not heard or have not fully understood this situation, which I am talking about and which I have pointed out. Yes, it is clear that this lump sum allowance applies to parents at a time when the community conditions have closed school, be it pre-school, or primary school to grade 4, and the parent, regardless of how many children he stays at home, sits at home. But where is the problem? The problem is that there are parents (and there can be single mothers)... when will not be able to divide it to mom and dad, for example. There are parents with three children. These three children study in their own institution - one studying in preschool, one studying in one primary school and the other, let's say, in another (in the same district) with a music shift. What's going on? It happens that January comes after the winter vacation, and in January this one school, where one of these three children is studying, is closed because someone in the school has an open community. Mom or Dad receives this allowance, stays at home. Two weeks later, there's a round of kindergartens to close. And what can these parents do, Mrs. Petravič? That is what needs to be corrected, and that is what I expect you, as Minister for Welfare, to study and understand that the benefit you are offering has a great deal of such holes through which people fall out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U15	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U16	Colleagues, special colleagues from the coalition! I agree... But you always have the opportunity, so first of all, to extend the deadline for submitting proposals, not 15 minutes, but a little longer. Secondly, do not agree that this draft law is urgent. You have a lot of opportunities, and we can tackle these loopholes together in the law, setting out for each child this opportunity... to extend this allowance to each child. But what do I want to add? Mrs Ločmele said that she had raised the problem that pregnant women are currently at risk. Yes, and Mrs Lochmele, you know, we have been waiting from Mr Skride and from Mrs Chakša since the end of March - since the end of March! - a letter or a solution to the draft law on the protection of pregnant workers, which states that not only vibrations, loads, noises, but also the epidemiological situation - the spread of a dangerous infection, are the risks of the working environment. And what do you think? Mr Skride promised to think about it together with Mrs. Chash. They think still! But family doctors point out that it really needs to be corrected in the law because they have no explanation how to apply this sick leave to a pregnant woman if she is afraid of her health and if she is in a crowd of people every day - with a high risk of getting sick and also passing this infection on to her baby. Mr. Skride and Mrs. Chash, shame! You are still thinking about protecting pregnant women? You don't even think about it! You have interesting things quite different from that, but not this important thing!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U17	The name to Member Ramona Petraviča for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U18	Ma'am! You are now talking about what will happen after some 20 January, because, as you know, children's holiday ends on the first dates of January, which is no more than 3 or 5, so 14 days later it is possible to benefit from the sickness benefit. With what you say, you are already saying that you know that schools will be closed and kindergartens will be closed, but there are still months to come, and I hope that if you from the Ministry of Education and Science for these two months provide the opportunity to provide both children and teachers with the necessary means of protection, and if the premises are adapted to epidemiological security measures so that there can safely continue on-the-spot training... And if it really is going to be so bad and we will not have coped with the Covide virus, then, of course, we will have the opportunity to extend this deadline. But I'm not here in the place of a playgger who could say that yes, from January 20, everything will be bad and schools will be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U19	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U20	Welcome to my dear colleagues. It was clear from the debate that the Minister for Welfare did not really understand what the debate was about. So this salt lies in the fact that it is a one-time benefit, but in fact, if this benefit needs to be used several times... So... If there's one child, then you're like a beneficiary, but if you have several and need to use this benefit several times, you don't have the chance to use it. That is why these large families are discriminated against in this way. We also do not know, of course, how long this period of virus will fall apart, how long there will be an emergency and whether its incidence will increase or decrease. That is why, at this point in time, such a regulation may be acceptable, because the first page of the disease, that is to say, 14 days later, will be able to be removed by the parents, but in fact, if there is a need to do so, there will not be a second page. The positive thing is that, by then, the government can present a new proposal for amendments, not only with a one-off possibility, but also with a second possibility for large families. If there is a possibility, it is also possible for other cases to apply and use this situation to be equal to all families and not just families with one child. I hope that this is understandable and will also be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U21	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U22	Yeah, thank you. I understand very well that the definition of the legal logic and of the legislative context of maternity and sickness insurance, as proposed, is sufficiently correct and acceptable and should be supported. Of course, in this case too, it must be recognised - it is good that the Ministry has applied in time and responded quickly. And, in my opinion, the attempts of the New Conservative Party to force the welfare ministers... and take no responsibility, is not correct enough. This grant is to be supported, and indeed, depending on the other ministries involved, including how effectively the Ministry of Education and Science will be able to provide protection measures for both teachers and students, will also depend on the overall situation with regard to the spread of infection. Therefore, it is not necessary to impose on those who offer solutions, but rather to act in a sufficiently rapid and timely manner, without taking part in the event, proactively acting and ensuring that the spread of infection is reduced in the context of school activities and teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U23	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U24	Proposal No 1 provides for the possibility of applying from 30 November onwards. And the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U25	Does one of the Members request a vote? There was a debate. Does anyone call for a vote on this proposal? Members shall not request a vote. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U26	2. - A editorial proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U28	3. - also a editorial proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U30	4. - just as a editorial proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U32	Proposal 5 provides for the entry into force of the law on the day following its publication.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U34	Thank you. Yes, the Commission really had a debate about the fact that, in fact, the situation we are discussing here is more about the repeated agreement to it. Mr. Butane said the most accurate. It is purely mathematically up to 14 January that we have no problem with the granting of these benefits and no one is discriminated against. And by 14 January, we will wait, as Mrs Petraviča said, for possible adjustments from the Ministry of Welfare. Amendments may also be tabled by a group of Members. The Commission supported this draft law at second, final, reading and calls on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge Zinaidas Lagzdiņa from the position of judge of Riga regional court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U36	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 17 November, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Zinaidas Lagzdiņas, a judge of Riga Regional Court from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Zinaids Lagzdiņš, the judge of the Riga Regional Court, to be released from office of the judge by 1 December 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U37	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the dismissal of the judge Zinaidas Lagzdiņa from the office of judge of Riga Regional Court! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Further reports by the Bureau on draft laws were submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Ageshin, will you talk about it or 'no'? ‘ Against” has applied to speak Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U38	Dear colleagues, It is fair to admit that certain draft laws appear on the agenda of the Saeima sitting only a few minutes before the vote. And this time too, Members of the Saeima have not had the opportunity to get to know in detail the content of the draft law. I believe that on the part of the government it is such arrogance and disrespect for Parliament. And the question arises as to how you can vote for or against what you have not read. I call on all those present to take this into account in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? to the commission? Member Stepanenko will talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U40	Member Stepanenko, in general, does not object to part of the...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U41	Will you talk about it or about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U42	I can also speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U43	Ms Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U44	Dear colleagues, Despite the fact that this draft law, as we are able to get to know, also contains positive things, so a corrigendum, a corrigendum, with regard to support for entrepreneurs, who, as I said in previous speeches, are really confused in one dust, but there is one very interesting nuance in this draft law, to which I invite you to pay attention. Thus Article 1, which in fact amends the objectives of the draft law. And, as we know, as we approach the end of the emergency, two laws were passed, one of which was this. And this law was intended to continue, after the end of the emergency, to give the government special powers to act as the Saeima would have allowed it in the law. But what did we now see? At the beginning of the emergency, various proposals and amendments continued in this law. And in fact, I could say that: there was a contradiction in the state of emergency, and this law should actually have been in peace, because that law is meant for the situation after the end of the emergency. What is even more interesting – on the basis of this law, when the emergency occurred, various amendments were made to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, which, for example, imposed an obligation on shoppers to control their customers or they properly wear masks. These provisions could, in fact, now be considered illegal because they were issued on the basis of an article of the law which should not have actually been in operation, because Article 1, which we are talking about now, until the amendments to this law had started to work (the whole of the law) when the emergency situation had come to an end. Now, colleagues, you are trying to cover up your mistakes, you are trying now to correct this version as if it had already been meant. But here we see really a very large legal foam, which you have jamed, based on the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, by which you have already started to apply different penalties and administrative processes in principle. I will call for this bill not to be voted in favour, so to vote 'no', because I think that Article 1 contains such a very interesting moment that you simply... you simply try to correct what you have already noticed at the moment, namely that it was a mistake - to base all this regulation during an emergency on the basis of a law that should not have worked at the moment. Well, we also know how to read, we know how to follow, and we see that you have made a serious, profound mistake right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U45	Member Aldis Gobzems will speak for.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U46	Yeah. Colleagues! It is very atypical that I spoke in a situation where I and one of the most loved colleagues in the Saeima, Julia Stepanenko, with whom I have a mostly identical view, it is a little different in this case. You, dear society, know that I am against the extension of the state of emergency and I am conceptually about the removal of the state of emergency today, yesterday and I will continue to be in this position. However, there is one issue in these amendments that puts me as a Member of the Saeima in a situation of certain conflict of interest. And the situation of this known conflict of interest is that these amendments are intended to prevent at least one anti-constitutional action that has so far been taken by the government, namely that it is possible to establish a political party in an emergency. Yes, I have addressed this issue to the Constitutional Court, to which the Constitutional Court has not responded at all than until now, but such an amendment has been submitted. And given that I am a politician who has requested to establish a political party during an emergency and I simply cannot physically do so because I am prohibited by law, these amendments would now allow this to be done accordingly. But this does not mean that in all other points I agree with the extension of the emergency situation as such. I only agree with the need to eliminate a constitutional problem that prohibits political opponents from participating in the political process. And so, in fact, I will vote in favour precisely for this reason, so that the relevant amendment will enter into force in this section. This also means, dear society and all my supporters, that the Gobzem Party will be established in times of emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law of the Executors of the Courts” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined, but questions have also been put to Members. Members Lochmele, Kucin, Zarins, Cilevičs and Agešins have tabled a question to Members on the change of work schedule for fire-fighters. The word for motivation to Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U48	Hello, colleagues! Due to the state emergency, the management of the State Fire and Rescue Service has decided to move from the four-change schedule to the three-change schedule. First of all, this means that there will be more rescuemen in every shift and if one of them gets infected with Covid-19, then several of them will go to quarantine. In addition, by changing the schedule, each fire-fighter will have to work a month instead of seven shifts, but 11. So every fire-fighter will have an average working hours increase of 96 hours per month, but the overtime will not be paid, because fire-fighters-fighters simply have no money. Therefore, there is a question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Ģirgens, whether he has assessed the possibility of providing for an overtime bonus for fire-fighting officers during an emergency, encouraging appropriate legislative changes, and whether he has assessed the timetable for a change of job in the GGD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-26-PT13-2154-U49	Thank you. The question is referred to the Minister for the Interior for a reply. Time for notifications. Ladies and gentlemen, so we will resume the budget sitting at 12 noon. As the NB8 Spyers meet today, the budget will be chaired for some time by Vice-President Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla. We plan an hour's long break at the usual time - from 12.30 to 13.30. So we will resume the budget session at 12.00. There's also a record of Members. It was a success. As a result, I closed the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 26 November this year.
