ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U1	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take a seat in the halls! Let us begin the second extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 2 April 2020. Dear colleagues, Ten Members – Krišjānis Feldmans, Gatis Eglitis, Linda Ozola, Juris Rancāns, Sandis Riekstins and others – propose to shorten the speaking time also at the second meeting of 2 April 2020... issues to be addressed at the second extraordinary meeting. Speaking for the first time – three minutes, speaking for the second time – one minute. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Yes!” ) Consequently, Members have reservations. We will have to vote on this. Please call me! We will vote for the session of the Saeima on 2 April 2020 to determine the speaking time: for the first time – three minutes, and for the second time – one minute! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U2	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on reducing the time for debate by three minutes, speaking for the first time, one minute, speaking for the second time. 61, against – 15, abstaining – not available.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U3	Thank you. Consequently, the decision was taken. On the agenda – draft decision on Aivara Gaidāns 13. Member of the Saeima for the period of temporary approval of the mandate of a member of the Saeima as long as the elected Members of the Parliament from the list of candidates for the KPV LV party in the Zemgale electoral district fulfil their ministerial duties.’ On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications – Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U4	President. Dear Members, Honourable Members! At its meeting on 2 April this year, the Board for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima discussed Jānis Vitenbergs' application on 13. the appointment of a member of the Saeima for the term of office of the Minister. The next candidate from the list of candidates for the KPV LV party in the Zemgale electoral district is Aivars Geidāns, who has agreed to take up the office of Member of the Saeima for a temporary period. The Commission calls for support for the draft decision on Aivara Gaidan 13. Member of the Saeima for the period of temporary approval of the mandate of a member of the Saeima as long as the elected Members of the Parliament from the list of candidates for the KPV LV party in the Zemgale electoral district fulfil their ministerial duties.’ Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U5	Thank you. I call on Aivars Gaidan to take an oath... a solemn undertaking.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U6	Hello! I, Aivars Geidāns, swear before the people of Latvia to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U7	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on Aivara Gaidana 13. Approval of the parliamentary term of office as long as the elected Members of the Parliament from the list of candidates for the KPV LV party in the Zemgale electoral district fulfil their ministerial duties’! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U8	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft decision “On Aivars Geidāns 13. The approval of the parliamentary term of office of a member of the parliament as long as the elected members of the ‘KPV LV’ list of candidates in the Zemgale electoral district fulfil their ministerial responsibilities: in favour of – 84, disapproving and refraining from – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U9	Thank you. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Members of the Saeima, Aivars Gaidan! We invite you to attend the Saeima sitting. (Applause) Dear colleagues, Let's keep going. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Reiznieces-Ozola, Augula, Kūres, Krauze, Valaiņa, Kučinskas and other draft laws submitted "Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance" be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U10	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! With other colleagues from the opposition, we have prepared this bill, which aims to restore the previous arrangements in the field of unemployment benefits, i.e. to restore both the nine-month period and the fact that unemployment benefits are granted for the first three months of 100 per cent, for the second three 75 per cent and for the third three 50 per cent. Why are we doing this? I think it is quite clear that last year, when the amount of unemployment benefit was reduced in the budget package, it was justified by the lack of labour force in the labour market. In order to motivate unemployed people to return to the labour market more quickly, this aid has been reduced. The economic situation was still positive at that time. We now see that every day there is information about tens, even hundreds, of people who are made redundant, who will have to live with unemployment benefits in the coming months. And especially in this situation, they are likely not to have the prospect of getting some other types of income in the near future, i.e. finding a job. As a result, unemployment benefits must be longer in a crisis situation. Well, at least as large as they were before the adoption of this year's budget package. I call on you to support this draft law, to hand it over to the Commission and then, as a matter of urgency, to adopt it, especially because we are now extending these amendments to people made redundant in a crisis situation. If, then, we see that the economic situation is improving, of course, back to the existing regulation.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U11	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U12	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance””: for – 29, against – 49, abstains – 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U13	Thank you. Consequently, the draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the member Lochmeles-Luniv, Cilevičs, Rubika, Švecova and Kabanov's draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses" be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections (Interface: "Vote!" ) against referral of the draft law to the commission? Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U14	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of voting on the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses””: for – 29, against – 55, refrains – not.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U15	Thank you. Consequently, the draft law has not been passed on to the commission. Please turn on the microphone for Regina Lochmele-Lunova, who wants to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U16	Hello, honourable colleagues! I had applied to speak to this bill. I am the applicant. Because of a technical error, this name wasn't for me... I was not given that opportunity. We can see here that there was an entry on the screen that I was speaking to this bill, but when the vote was put to the vote. In order to have a vote on the basis of conscience and the best consciousness, however, I had to speak to this bill to explain to Members on whom the proposed amendments were tabled... on which you have just voted and rejected this draft law. That is, this bill is about a very painful problem, about forced rental, which...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U17	Mrs Ločmele-Lunova, you have applied for a procedure. I very much respect the will of Members to speak and to debate, but we agreed on the order of speaking and debate. Information material was sent to each Member yesterday. Today you received it again, and it says: “A Member who wants to speak about the submitted draft laws, from his Saeima e-mail to the specified specified e-mail parliament.sede@saeima.lv sends information indicating whether he will speak about or against the particular draft law.” The debate, on the other hand, refers to the issue under discussion by filling in the green pages. Well, we worked very carefully on this. So it's a bill... I'll remind you again... We apply to discuss the referral of draft laws to commissions “on” or “no”, by sending a message from our e-mail to Saeima.sede@saeima.lv. That's what we agreed on last night... and today again. Please, let's keep this order. For the procedure, please turn on the microphone for Member Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U18	Mrs Mūrniece, I would like to defend Mrs Regina Ločmeles-Lunova a little bit, because I am an example. You have just said that you have sent all Members appropriate statements as to how the sitting will take place. Personally, if I hadn't come to you this morning... I had nothing sent, nothing like that, nothing in the e-mail, nothing... That's it. Its technical problems, objectively, should also be taken into account by you as the chair of the sitting and, however, should also be heard by members of the opposition. Because technically, as a Member, I didn't see any documents signed by you...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U19	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Gobzem, for your opinion. I'll say again: You can access your Saeima e-mails using both the Saeima computer and your mobile phone... Then all these technical problems are... Also to be resolved today morning. ( Milestones.) This morning, too, Members were once again informed about the application procedure. Colleagues, we now have an emergency situation in the country, and Parliament is also working in an emergency. We have slightly different procedures so that we can continue the Saeima sitting as quickly as possible, as quickly as possible and as fully as possible. So thank you. We have talked about the procedure. Go on. Let us continue to look at the agenda. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Emergency and Exceptional Situation”” be submitted to the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission by Members Stepanenko, Reizniece-Ozola, Schmidt, Liepaja, Vucana, Kučinska, Krauzze and Gobzem. ‘ Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied to speak about”
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U20	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Our proposal is not to impose an obligation and only once for a maximum of three months to extend this state of emergency, but, as we see, it is also happening in other countries, to introduce the possibility of extending this state of emergency several times, with all the works planned in the future under review then, let us say... after the events that are currently visible. Therefore, given that there was a very great concern in society, too, about extending this emergency immediately for three months, we are encouraging this draft law to state that it is not an obligation to define this extension only once, but it is an opportunity to decide several times on an extension of the emergency situation in order to minimise the negative impact on the economy. We therefore ask our honourable colleagues to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U21	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? I can't hear any objections from anyone. There is therefore no objection. Yes, we have been told by technical staff that there is no objection from any medicine. The draft law is passed on to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which states that it is the committee responsible. Thank you. On the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Eva Mārtuza to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Does one of the Members wish to debate? Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Eva Mārtuja to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U22	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima member Eva Mārtujas to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs: 86 no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U23	Thank you. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Ralfa Nemiro Member to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Ralfa Nemir to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U24	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Ralfa Nemiro to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy: 86
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U25	Thank you. Decision adopted. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U26	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has today examined the draft law "Amendment to the State Funded Pensions Act" and asked for it to be referred to the Saeima for first reading, but, of course, previously supported urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U27	Does Gatis Eglitis want to talk about urgency? The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” as urgent! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U28	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” as urgent: 87, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U29	Thank you. The draft law has been declared urgent. Do Members want to debate the draft law? ( Insight: “There was applied... “) There was a debate, yes, but disappeared into the system, so I asked: do Members want to debate? Let's start a debate. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U30	Yeah, thank you. I had planned to make amendments to the second reading, which would enable much more of the accumulated pension capital to be invested in the Latvian economy, but I will not do so, given today's working conditions. But I will explain what is the problem with this law as a whole. So today, we heard in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) that most pension funds will be working at great losses this year – from 2 to up to 20 percent. This means that already Latvia's pension capital has lost several hundred million euros, say, from the great fluctuations on the stock exchange if... on the world stock exchanges. It is basically a pensioner, well, our total lost money. These amendments meant that a growing proportion of pension capital could therefore be invested in Latvia... active – whether they are Latvian forests, agricultural land, real estate and so on, as it is in Scandinavia. I would therefore call on the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Finance, the Financial and Capital Market Commission to work very urgently on such amendments so that we can see that this pension money does not flow to any foreign exchanges where it is lost, but that it really is invested in the Latvian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U31	Thank you. I closed the debate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate call.) This relates to this particular draft law?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U32	It's with everyone, yeah. I noted, Mrs Mūrniece – the rapporteur was not about the draft law at all. In principle, before every draft law... be the rapporteur reporting...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U33	Mr Gobzem, I would advise you to keep a close eye on the course of the sitting and not to deal with any side-effects, then you would have heard Mr Bondara report on this draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” at first reading! Please vote mode! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U34	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions”: for – 86, there are no votes against and refrains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U35	Thank you. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please turn on the microphone to Mārtiņš Bondars to report on the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U36	This small amendment to the law of the Cabinet of Ministers was examined by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and please consider and support the draft law now at second reading – without viewing it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U37	Does one of the Members object to the support of the draft law without a re-examination by the commission responsible? Are there any objections to other medicines? Colleagues, I assume there is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” at second, final reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U38	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” at second reading (urgently): for – 86, against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U39	Thank you. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U40	Dear Mrs. Mourniece. Dear Members, Today, at the meeting of the Digital Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, we discussed the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”. And specifically. The Group put forward the following proposal: "If the period for the granting of parental benefit ends at the time when the emergency situation is declared on the territory of the country and the circumstances of the emergency make it impossible for the older person to return to work, the payment of parental benefit shall continue for the entire period of the emergency situation and one calendar month after the end of the emergency situation." We discussed again in the Commission... We have already started discussions on some restrictions... In particular, it should be limited to EUR 700. In the Commission, we decided that the draft law should be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U41	Thank you. Does Member Stepanenko want to talk about urgency? Turn on the microphone for Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U42	No, no. I would like to talk about the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U43	You're going to have a debate, huh? Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” as urgent! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U44	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance””: for – 87, there are no votes against and refrains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U45	Thank you. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U46	Dear colleagues, Of course, in support of the draft law itself, I would like to draw the attention of all my colleagues to the fact that, on 20 March, a draft of a similar nature was passed on to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima, which speaks specifically of the protection of pregnant women during this period. And I draw attention to the fact that pregnant women are still working in a variety of jobs that can now be considered dangerous in relation to this infection. That is why I will be calling on behalf of my colleagues, too. – Mr Skrides should also immediately consider the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” in order to provide the necessary protection for pregnant women, who are still working in the public sector and presenting themselves to danger. It should be noted that the effect of this infection on pregnancy has not yet been fully investigated. I call on my colleagues, and particularly Mr Skrides, to think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U47	Thank you. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U48	Thank you. However, I do not want to debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U49	You don't want to debate? I closed the debate. Is there something to add on behalf of the Commission to Mr Skrides?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U50	Yeah. The Commission unanimously supported this draft law at first reading. And I call on the Saeima to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U51	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone! On behalf of Vote counters: Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U52	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading: for – 88, against and refrains – does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U53	Thank you. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please turn on the microphone for Rihard Cole to set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima. ( Internouncing call.) Forgive me, turn on the microphone for Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U54	Time-limit for the submission of proposals for second reading: 15 minutes. And consideration at the Saeima sitting – today, 2 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U55	The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 16.05 p.m. And consideration at the Saeima sitting – today, 2 April this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U56	Hello, fellow Members, again! In its meeting of 2 April of this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention examined draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”. The draft law provides for a higher fine for administrative infringements for non-compliance with epidemiological requirements and for failure to provide information in the event of infection. The draft law also provides for administrative liability for refusal to carry out a check on the determination of alcoholic strength if the check is carried out using a portable measuring device. The law will enter into force on the day following its publication. In view of the current situation, the Commission calls for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U57	Thank you. Mr. Dombrava, will you talk about urgency? Turn on the microphone for Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U58	No, I will speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U59	No, no? So you will be speaking in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” as urgent! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U60	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of voting on establishing the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” as a matter of urgency: for – 85, there are no votes against and refrains.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U61	Thank you. Consequently, the draft law has been declared urgent. Dear colleagues, Before we start the debate, Members Jurash, Feldman, Muižniece, Ozola and Znotiņš ask for the second extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 2 April this year to be held without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is also no information from other Saeima medicines that Members have objections. The sitting of the Saeima will therefore be held without interruption. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U62	Dear colleagues, I understand that some shouting cases call for much more severe penalties, but... We also need to think about the social problems that have arisen. For some, self - isolation means that he will not have the money to pay for rents (this means that a person can get to the street!) or to make credit payments. And that is why it is very important that either a compensation mechanism or any other mechanism is created to enable people who have become ill or have been included in this forced quarantine to cover at least part of the rent and credit payments before we introduce very severe penalties. For others, these new rules will create unnecessary, unnecessary stress. For example, the law will provide that... For example, if a person fails to provide information that he has been in contact with an infected person, he will be able to receive a penalty of up to 2000 euros. Will a shopkeeper be able to put his hand on the heart to show that a buyer has not been infected? Will a police officer who patrols every day on the streets to which other people come prove that he has not been in contact with an infected person? I think that, in the case of many professions, this will be an impossible mission. At the same time, these conscious workers will be threatened with a fine of up to EUR 2 000. For some, it may be smaller, for another – bigger... if it is decided to impose such penalties. I believe that these amendments may be necessary, but they should be passed on at a time when the social side is in order on this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U63	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U64	Dear colleagues, I join Mr Dombrava in the question of the need for compensatory mechanisms. I also believe that much of these vaunting cases, where people lie to medical staff for not having been abroad or in contact with a Covid-19 patient, are in close contact with the situation that... Just don't want to stay without income. They should be given the opportunity to go to work after such information has been provided. Of course, compensatory mechanisms must be sought, and that is the task of the government – to seek them and to implement them as quickly as possible. But if we look at what is the main task of the country today, in these exceptional circumstances, it is to limit the spread of the disease, the spread of this virus. And the virus is exactly those people who have already been infected... We all know what, let's say, the dandruff is sticky. So the greatest effort is to isolate these people... and people who ignore these conditions must be harshly treated. And if they still... And if they're not fined, then they're... more stringent mechanisms should be put in place. That's why... these proposals are not about self-insulation. These proposals are because a person is ill... so that he wouldn't get around and spread... and do not threaten other people – fellow humans. We all know how much this virus is... may be fatal, especially for those groups that are seniors, for those who already have some kind of disease. So that I, my fellow Members, would call for serious consideration... to support this draft law at first reading, as it has been submitted, and to extend the mandate in emergency situations to second reading... extend the mandate of national and municipal police officers... with the possibility of placing these people in some way in isolation if they ignore... and if they are not subject to fines. I think that is very important at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U65	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U66	Dear colleagues, Of course, this fight with... limiting the spread of infection. In my opinion, it is very bad that the opposition proposals have not been supported at the beginning of March for all those who have come from abroad to be able to obtain national paid-for sick sheets so that this infection is not spread. Now run after everyone with this punishment... with this penalty threat – this, in my opinion, is no longer effective, given that the state is also... the public authorities are also a little late with this... as Mr Dombrava has said very well, this social security. We see that in other countries, both local authorities and public authorities have already taken care that the person who can spread the infection really sits at home. So he has a paid sick leave and also a food reserve, also through social services. So, in my view, we cannot now impose penalties. Of course, as a declaratory statement, it is an incentive for those who still do not listen to these statements, but in reality I am not ready to support an increase in penalties at the moment. In my opinion, the police already have quite a number of instruments to follow this situation (in line with the existing penalties) and to carry out all actions to limit the spread of infection. Therefore, it seems to me that this measure will not be effective at the moment. Of course, people's solvency must also be taken into account, which will also be very important. I call for no support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U67	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U68	I think, of course, that penalties would violate these rules... At a time when your infringement can have serious consequences for public health and the public economy, penalties must be and some discipline must exist. But now... understand that time has passed, the opinion has evolutionary... At a time when Ivars Zarins recently urged that the newcomers should lay certain bracelets in order to identify them in society as those at risk, there was indignation in the hall. Today, I think that if we look at that proposal, it was absolutely reasonable and in place. I will support first reading and call on others to do so, but we should make these adjustments to second reading because... I agree with those who say that now... We create more stress, in my opinion, in those people who may be conscious rather than frighten those who are unconscious. And the amount of the fine here will not be decisive, because those who cannot pay it today will not be able to pay it tomorrow when it is bigger. And, after all, such a fine could be effective in circumstances if we determined, let us say, the entire territory or some separate places full of total quarantine. Then that would be effective in detecting... and then it would be feasible. I'm not calling for quarantine to be established, you can't tell me, but... In my opinion, society now has not only the "story of punishment", but also the stress – the stress of it: "Am I not arrested or punished for things that I should not be punished for because I am, in principle, conscious?" I think we're going to be more frightened than we're going to get an effect. That's why I... Well, I will support it at first reading. I think we could make some adjustments when we look at the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U69	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U70	Colleagues! I also think that the penalty policy, in principle, now shows that we're running a train after... We run for that fashion thing – we look at what is happening in other countries, and then we run for it instead of walking on our own logical path. First. I agree with Mr Dombrava and Mrs Stepanenko that we should now place much more emphasis on how to get people to have money to eat and pay for... daily needs. Secondly. I think we're more important... the decision should be made on how to isolate risk groups, the social risk groups most likely to be at risk. And at the same time, we should decide not how to reinforce restrictions, but how... Based on statistics, we should look at which sections we can also release... and reduce all restrictions. Because currently, at least the statistics that are available suggest that those public statements that have been made – maybe need another three months... and very tight... these emergency measures are not justified. There must be a very planned balance in detail here. And, of course, there will be no such punishment for those who have an irresponsible lifestyle to date. So maybe that set should not only be seen loose from penalties, but... should look at how we will help our Latvian society and how we will at the same time maintain our economy and, at the same time, let us risk as little as possible those social groups whose virus may be most at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U71	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is something to be added on behalf of the commission? Turn on the microphone for Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U72	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that the draft law was conceptually supported in the Commission. And I therefore call for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U73	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations”! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U74	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” at first reading: for – 83, against – 1, abstains – 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U75	Thank you. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Enable, please, a microphone member, Juris Rancán, to set a time limit for the proposals and the time for the hearing at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U76	Deadline for submission of proposals: 20 minutes. And a second reading – 2 April 2020 in extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U77	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals was 16.35 a.m. on 2 April this year. And consideration at the extraordinary meeting of 2 April this year. Thank you. Draft law ‘Law on the functioning of institutions in the event of an emergency in connection with the spread of Covid-19’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U78	Colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has also examined this draft law – about the functioning of institutions during an emergency situation. The draft law provides for various institutional activities... the operation during the emergency. In essence, the draft law... in a large part... provides already with the order of the Cabinet of Ministers on emergency situations... However, there are several additions to the existing obligations and restrictions. I will name a number of key conceptual things that are contained in this draft law. The draft law regulates the issue of administrative acts and their time limits in institutions. By the way, it gives the institutions the right to extend these time limits. The functioning of the courts is also regulated. And the civil process, for example, can happen in writing. Moreover, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court has the right to determine another kind of... limitations to legal proceedings. Administrative irregularities will continue to be dealt with in writing. In turn, the administrative penalty, the administrative arrest... execution (regardless of limitation of punishment... period) is postponed. An administrative arrest which, for this reason, will not be executed and which is subject to limitation after the end of the emergency situation shall not be enforceable. The next point is important. The Prosecutor General may, in consultation with the heads of law enforcement institutions, set criteria and procedures for the conduct of pre-trial criminal proceedings in person for the period of the emergency. On the other hand, drivers of criminal proceedings may suspend investigations in criminal proceedings if the necessary minimum amount of investigation activities has been carried out. The Council of Sworn Courts of Latvia and the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia may impose restrictions on the admission of visitors in person or decide in general to terminate the provision of these services in places of practice. Go on. It is stated: if the identity document has expired, the document is valid until the end of the emergency situation. Foreigners who are currently in Latvia can continue to stay here until the end of the emergency situation. Go on. Temporary deprivation of liberty and criminal punishment, arrest... the execution of these penalties... the opening of detention facilities is postponed. Similarly, the taking over of prisoners from abroad and the transfer of prisoners to a foreign country may be postponed. Go on. It is foreseen that the rights of prisoners, as established by law, may be restricted by the order of the Head of Prison Administration, including the amended procedure for early release of convicted persons and the deadlines for execution. The Minister of the Interior shall have the right to decide on the use of the alcohol seized for the disinfection of premises and surfaces. During an emergency, the issue of certificates and licences, attestations, certificates, passes, permits, registration documents and other similar documents may be suspended by a separate decision. Go on. The time limits for accreditation of individual educational programmes have been extended. The Minister for Foreign Affairs may impose restrictions on consular assistance and its on-the-spot delivery. For the duration of the emergency, the head of the institution may extend the time limits for reply provided for in the Application Law. On the other hand, the Ministry of Welfare, when assessing the impact of the cut-off period on the provision of services, has the right to pay for the cut-off period for non-family care support centres, which carry out a delegated task of public administration and which, due to the exceptional situation, cannot provide services in full. Social services at home are provided at a distance, except in cases where it is not possible to deliver a service at a distance. The provision of these services is permitted by guaranteeing the security and resources necessary for the provision of the services. Go on. It is provided that the chairman of the municipal council may, by order, specify that meetings of municipal council and committees may be held at a distance, subject to the conditions laid down by law. In order to ensure the availability of disinfectants and other goods required in an emergency, undertakings to which the relevant permits have been issued may start production of the relevant goods after receiving the harmonisation from the State Environmental Service. The national environment service shall issue this harmonisation within five working days, requesting, if necessary, an opinion from the Health Inspection and Local Government. Go on. In order to prevent and manage threats of the State, the Minister of Defence may appoint reserve soldiers in active service for a period of time necessary for the performance of tasks related to the prevention of Covid-19 spread. In addition, if necessary, the Minister of Defence may reduce the requirements for admission to professional service and admission to the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia. And one of the last points. As mentioned above, the State Police may, at the request of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre, request data from electronic communication operators on the location of persons and use these data for epidemiological investigations. In view of the current situation, the Commission is asking for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U79	The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Turn on, please, to Regina Lochmele-Lunova, a microphone member. Mrs Ločmele-Lunova, do you want to talk about urgency or to debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U80	I would like to have a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U81	Thank you. Then, when we debate, let's turn on the microphone. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the functioning of institutions in the event of an emergency in relation to the spread of Covid-19! Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U82	Dear Members, honourable Members, The result of the vote on the recognition of the draft law ‘Law on the functioning of institutions in the event of an emergency in relation to the spread of Covid-19’ as urgent: 85 votes against and refrains — does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U83	Thank you. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U84	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The second paragraph of Article 31 of this draft law provides that the Minister of Defence may, if necessary, reduce the requirement for admission to the professional service and admission to the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia in relation to the spread of Covid-19. I believe that this is the norm that needs to be supplemented. In our view, the same possibility should also be offered to the Minister of the Interior. In our view, therefore, the draft law should be supplemented by the following article: "The Minister of the Interior may, if necessary, reduce the requirement for adoption by the Office of the Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior for the duration of the tasks related to the prevention of the spread of Covid-19." Because right now, police officers are those who are most involved (with medical staff) in epidemic activities. And knowing that there is a shortage of staff in the police, that there is a starvation of personnel, in our view, the Ministry of the Interior should be given the right to ensure the full number of police officers during an emergency... the number required to combat the epidemic in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U85	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U86	Colleagues! This draft law, which has been submitted, is acceptable, but right now, it is obvious that the draft law is... Well, how do you say it more gently... is far from what is happening in municipalities. The draft law that has been prepared requires a lot of technical improvements... Even from a practical life... that's not exactly... or about the work of municipalities – in what way municipal council meetings organise, who signs these documents. These are technical issues which should be clarified. But... in essence, at the very root, this draft law is about the activities of institutions, but should be supplemented already – not only about the activities of institutions, but also about the activities of municipalities here... so that it is broader. I will also submit proposals for the second reading of this draft law, both on social benefits, on the organisation of municipal sittings and on development issues. With this law, too, we can help very successfully, and also think about economic development, how to organise, accept, and plan territorial development, so that the development of these documents is not stopped. Because you know what it's about. However, these are investments, strategies. And it would be great if we could find a way of not stopping the development of these documents for emergency periods. I have prepared the solutions and will call for them to be examined by the committee responsible... to second reading. So, colleagues, there will be a lot of proposals, but let us try to look at them constructively already in the committee so that we do not then have to debate them at the Saeima sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U87	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is something to be added on behalf of the Commission before the vote? Turn on the microphone for Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U88	Yes, the draft law was conceptually supported by the Commission. And I therefore call for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U89	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on the functioning of institutions in the context of the development of the Covid-19 emergency situation. Please, let's vote! ( The vote is ongoing.) Please turn on the microphone voice counter for Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U90	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, The result of the vote on the draft law on the functioning of the institutions during the emergency in relation to the spread of Covid-19 at first reading: on -86, against and refrains - does not exist.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U91	Thank you. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please turn on the microphone member Juris Rancāns to set a time limit for the proposals and the time for the hearing at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U92	Deadline for the submission of proposals: 15 minutes and second reading: 2 April 2020 in extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U93	Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals would be 15 minutes at 16:45, i.e. 2 April this year. And consideration – the Saeima in its extraordinary session of 2 April this year. Colleagues! We have examined the agenda of the sitting. Time for notifications. Please turn on the microphone for Juris Rancan. Commission sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U94	Colleagues! The meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption will take place in about 40 minutes. If more time is needed to prepare the proposal tables on both draft laws, then I will send a message, and in principle in 40 minutes. Remote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-04-02-PT13-2059-U95	The meeting of the Commission shall be held at a distance. Please turn on the microphone for Andris Flyre. Commission sitting. We can't hear Andre Fly! Turn on the microphone for Andris Flyre! He's talking... Read it, please! ( Internouncing call.) Let Andris Flydi hear other halls! ( Interface: “Andri, louder! ” (Laughter) The technique remains the technique. Colleagues, well, patience! ( Interface: “Five minutes after... “; dep. A. Skride: “I’m talking very loud!” ) So five minutes after the meeting of the Saeima, if? Remote. Okay, thank you. We have therefore examined the agenda. The notifications have taken place and I closed my second extraordinary meeting on 2 April 2020.
