ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U1	Dear colleagues, We started the second extraordinary remote sitting on December 10th. The first item on the agenda is the examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U2	Hello, colleagues! At the first reading of the meeting of 8 December this year, the Commission of Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention reviewed the draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 861/Lp13). The draft law is quite large, and so I will only name the most important points and try to inform you briefly about the content, but more specifically (not to be heard.) ... will be in second reading. And if there are any relevant issues, then we will also talk at second reading. So the most important thing is what? The purpose of the law is clarified. In the past, the purpose of the law was to establish the legal order and the fundamental principles of the functioning of state institutions after the emergency, but now it is clarified and the law lays down the basic principles of the functioning of state institutions, as well as the rights and obligations of state institutions and individuals to prevent and manage the threat of the state during the period of the Covid-19 infection. Go on. The draft law provides that public institutions provide services as far as possible at a distance, without prejudice to the rights of individuals and without creating excessive administrative burden. On the other hand, if these services cannot be provided remotely, they shall be provided on-site in accordance with the epidemiological safety rules. However, cases postponed during an emergency shall then be considered as a priority if the cases received subsequently are not to be dealt with under the urgency procedure. In addition, the draft law also provides for interesting things - to extend the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers: to lay down the conditions for receiving services; the procedure for financing an assistant service financed from the state budget in the municipality; the procedure for extending the period of validity of an administrative act issued previously by the National Commission of Health and Work Capacity Experts, if the person has not submitted the necessary documents for carrying out the disability assessment. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers is delegated to impose restrictions or prohibitions on the services and activities provided by public persons and private individuals (there are therefore total prohibitions which were not previously provided for by the law) in the light of specifically defined conditions. In such a case, for example, the Cabinet of Ministers should specifically assess the proportionality of restrictions and prohibitions and their necessity in the light of the epidemiological situation in the territory or sector concerned. The draft law also provides that ‘The Cabinet of Ministers shall inform the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption about the establishment of restrictions... affecting the fundamental rights and legitimate interests of persons or which may have a significant impact on the state economy’. In turn, the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption could encourage the Cabinet of Ministers to review the restrictions provided if they considered public security risks related to the spread of Covid-19 infection could be effectively eliminated by measures restricting the rights of individuals or measures that have less impact on the economy. Go on. The draft law lays down rules for the implementation of the work of the courts of the orphanage, including that the cases of the court of the orphanage may be examined remotely and decisions taken in writing. In the past, it has been laid down in an emergency order (as well as a few other points of this law that I will be talking about right away). The draft law also lays down conditions for the adjudication of cases at videoconferencing and written proceedings in administrative, criminal and civil matters, while respecting the objectives of epidemiological security. The draft law lays down more favourable conditions for debtors regarding work of sworn bailiffs, where the debtor has been found to be ill with Covid-19 and is certified by a sick leave. The draft law provides for the right for the Minister of the Interior to decide on the use of alcohol seized in criminal matters for the disinfection of premises and surfaces and the transfer of this alcohol to other institutions for their use, as well as for the disinfection of premises and surfaces. Articles 32 and 33 of the draft law provide for clarification of issues concerning foreign nationals' residence permits, electronic submission of documents, as well as such permission... the examination of documents and the issue or withdrawal of such authorisations. Also, the draft law provides that if a sick person or staff who are officers with a special rank of service has been found to be in prison in the administration of detention places, or if the status of a contact person is established for these officials, and this endangers the performance of the relevant function, the head of the prison administration shall have the right to determine or instruct any official of the prison administration (which is meant to be any other official) to perform any duties other than those laid down in the description of his position, as well as to employ this official “perpetually longer than 24 hours”. It is also foreseen that if it is not possible to ensure the work of the Prison Administration with existing resources, the Prison Administration may request in writing the assistance of the National Armed Forces in the provision of these functions. The draft law also provides that universities and scientific institutions, which until 1 May 2021 are to hold elections to the decision-making bodies, scientific councils of a scientific institution or the director of a scientific institution, shall have the right to decide on the postponement of elections for a period not exceeding 31 December 2021 and, if universities or scientific institutions have separated for such a step, prior to the new elections the directors and councils of these institutions shall carry out their management. The draft law provides for administrative responsibility for breaching the prohibition imposed on the organiser of the event or the economic service provider to provide a service to a person who does not comply with the requirements of epidemiological security: the natural and legal person shall be subject to a warning or a fine - up to 10 fine units. Administrative responsibility is also provided for failure to comply with the obligation imposed on the organiser of the event, the economic service provider or the owner of the building not to allow inside persons who do not use the oral and nasal cover: a warning or a fine - up to 10 fine units - shall be imposed on the natural person and legal person. That's it! This draft law was discussed in the Commission. There are, of course, certain issues which have quite a lot of discussion and... contradictions, however, conceptually this bill is supported by the commission, listening to institutions, specialists and ministries. The Commission, on the basis of a request from the government, is asking for urgency to be established for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U3	Thank you. Mr Rancan, first of all we must vote in favour of urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid–19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases”! Please vote mode! For - 68, for - 1, for - 15. Draft law has been declared urgent. The Members have not applied for the debate at first reading. Mr Rancan, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U4	No, nothing else can be added. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U5	Member Jūlija Stepanenko has applied for the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U6	Yes, my fellow Members, I really had applied for a debate. Thank you for your attention. I would like to say a few words about this draft law. I understand that, on the basis of this draft law, regulations were issued by the Cabinet of Ministers, which imposed an obligation on certain economic operators to follow the epidemiological situation. And when this law was... when this law was a little different, when the aim of this law was a different one (i.e. to deal with the situation outside the emergency situation), these rules were also issued. At present, I believe that adapting the objective of this law to the current situation is not really fair. In that case, the obligation that should be imposed... which government wants to impose on economic operators should be changed, because in fact this obligation is based on the law which should not have been in operation during an emergency, because that law is intended to combat the situation when the emergency situation is over. That was what it was meant to do. What I would like to draw attention to, my honourable colleagues, is that this draft law provides for one very important thing: it is a derogation from the human rights obligations that Latvia, according to the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers, declares to international institutions; that is, the article reads as follows: “If it is necessary for the effective implementation of Covid-19 measures to prevent the spread or spread of infection, the Cabinet of Ministers shall notify international organisations of the departure from certain international human rights obligations of Latvia in accordance with the procedures laid down in international treaties binding on Latvia.” I could say that such a derogation and an article on such a right of derogation seem to me personally quite worrying, especially given that I do not see in this law any participation by the Saeima in the creation of this derogation, any reconfirmation of the existence of these exceptions. The fact that people's freedoms and rights are being restricted more and more and without a visible end makes me very concerned, because we can also read such... Well, there were indications that had been issued on 7 April 2020 from the Secretary-General of the European Commission, namely that it is an information document that sets out... In Latvian it was not translated; I cannot find such a translation, but I will try to translate it from English. The title of this document is: "Having democracy and human rights within the Covid-19 crisis" (a simple translation of the title). And this small guide, which was sent out to all countries (including Latvia should have been sent to this guide), contains guidelines for the government in what way... Well, surgically accurate... act in accordance with the rule of law, in accordance with respect for human rights in this crisis. So I hope I really hope! - that April is not too long time for this crisis, that this manual is indeed still valid and that it is respected. In particular, we see from this description that, in fact, in order to limit human rights, there must be some really very important basis, and that, moreover, the restriction of human rights should not be initiated and enforced by the government, but definitely participate in it... It is imperative that Parliament also participate in this event. I would like to emphasise this, and I will certainly pay attention to this when we prepare the draft law for the second reading. If you really believe that human rights must be restricted in some way and, moreover, that must be done for an indefinite period of time, then let some people decide on this and take appropriate responsibility for this measure. Speaking of all these restrictions, which are currently in force... that they would also need some term - this guide also clearly and lightly indicates that such term should definitely exist. So people need to understand for how long all this is intended for, and any extension must go through the parliamentary sieve. So this is also a very important point. I think that we should not forget such, in my opinion, very important indications coming from the European Commission. What else do I think is very important? But what can be more important than what I have just mentioned?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So... There is another moment - with regard to these rights... The right of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption to indicate to the Cabinet of Ministers what should be corrected by the Cabinet of Ministers... These restrictive measures. Yes, it could be useful in a situation where the Cabinet of Ministers uses its powers outside the emergency situation, therefore, on the basis of this Law, issues different regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. It would be right if the Cabinet initially aligned these rules with the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and listened to the Commission's views. But, as I said earlier, these double rights... At present, the Cabinet of Ministers should not be allowed to restrict the rights and freedoms of people in a double manner, because we currently have an emergency, and order on various extensions of the emergency situation and various amendments... The order should therefore be approved by the Saeima. At the same time, however, as we can see, the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers to issue different regulations on the basis of this law, which, of course, do not reach the Saeima and just then enter into force accordingly. It would be very useful, but I will repeat once again that these powers should not remain with the Cabinet of Ministers in this emergency situation, because the Cabinet of Ministers already has the right to decide on an emergency situation... amendments to these orders, providing for different additions or exceptions as appropriate. What would really be very important in this case is what we have already talked about in the first emergency: the Saeima should be able to make its proposals on emergency orders. This is not seen in this bill. What I see in this draft law is only the recommendations regarding the restrictions imposed by this law. The same good commission or the Saeima as a whole should have the right to decide on proposals for amendments to the Emergency Order. We can see now... We have seen the situation recently with regard to, in my opinion, the very hasty order for restrictions on trade on holidays. Indeed, this caused a great deal of confusion and chaos among traders and unnecessary stress also for consumers. In order not to repeat such things, in my opinion, the Saeima should be able to react quickly to, perhaps not too well thought out steps from the Cabinet of Ministers and if it is not simply to reject a brother created by the Cabinet of Ministers, then at least intervene with its proposals, for example, to correct such or another point immediately. We have, of course, tried to collect signatures on Friday, last Friday, to try to prevent this chaos (it is, of course, very difficult for the opposition to collect 34 signatures in the e-system), and I think, too, the coalition colleagues... very many have spoken about this order. They too... Many of them felt that the order was quite difficult to execute and imprudent. I understand that most Members of the Saeima still have questions about these orders in the last week. I therefore think that the Saeima should also have the right to indicate what, in the opinion of the Saeima, should be corrected in this order without delay. These are my reflections. I will, of course, also make proposals, and I will defend them. I hope that really that common sense will prevail in this case... in this debate, but I will repeat it again. - I am very, very concerned that we are now opening up the possibility of restrictive measures against human rights, in fact, without any time limit and without any compensatory mechanisms. I don't know where we're going. I would like to hear my colleague from Development/About! an opinion that, in my opinion, is indignant about the rulings of the Hungarian Parliament in the summer. I think now... Well, now there are no more questions for colleagues. I think Mrs. Steel was very angry about all this. We got him today... I think we will not be hearing her comments today on the restriction of human rights. It is sad that colleagues probably do not think about what draft laws and what orders we will soon see and what we will have to vote on. I really very much hope, colleagues, that you carefully read all the documents on which you have to vote and be aware of your responsibility for every vote. I call on such a draft law not to support me for the first reason I mentioned. So I do not support human rights restrictive measures at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U7	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Ranzan, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U8	On behalf of the Commission, I would just add that the discussions at first reading were, of course, and will continue at second reading - already on specific proposals. I therefore call at this point to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management”! Please vote mode! For - 65, for - 4, for - 15. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading and a date for examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U10	The deadline for the submission of proposals - 14 December this year and the discussion at second reading by the Saeima - 17 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U11	Thank you. There are no other proposals regarding the deadline. So, as a deadline for submitting proposals, we are setting 14 December this year and we will be conducting an examination at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 17 December. The next item is the examination of the draft decision. Draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2020”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U12	Hello, Madam President. Colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! The draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On State Budget for 2020”” provides that the Saeima agrees that in the budget sub-programme of the Ministry of Health 33.18.00 “Provide of planned hospital health care services” the resources redistributed in the amount of 690 thousand euros are allocated to the state society with limited liability “Child Clinical University Hospital” – for the purchase of ultrasonography equipment. In the past, it was decided to determine the exact number of installations, but when the Commission heard those responsible, we concluded that it was not possible to determine precisely the number of installations to be purchased, and that it was therefore necessary to clarify that provision by stating that the redistributed funds were intended for the purchase of ultrasonography equipment. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U13	Thank you. The Members have not applied for the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft decision on the re-allocation of appropriations established by the Saeima in the Law “On the State Budget for 2020”! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. The next item is the transmission of draft laws to the commissions and the first reading. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Procedure” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Members have not requested a vote. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The committee responsible for the Saeima – the Commission on Legal Affairs – has asked the Seimas Bureau to examine the draft law referred to in Article 86 of the Seimas Rules of Procedure at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. The draft law is therefore examined at first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juris Jurash. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U14	Welcome again, honourable colleagues! I informed that in my meeting on 8 December, the Legal Commission considered draft law prepared by the Ministry of Justice “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” (No. 874 Lp13). The Legal Commission examined the draft law and supported its progress in the Saeima. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the draft law... Amendments are currently included in the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” (No. 700/Lp13). The draft law was discussed by the Legal Commission at second reading, and today it was discussed at second reading in the Saeima sitting as well and was unanimously supported. Taking into account that the work of the Saeima has been somewhat delayed with the adoption of the Law on the State Budget 2021 and possibly draft laws No. 700/Lp13 will not be able to be examined in three readings by the end of December; a draft law containing urgent amendments is needed. The first of the amendments to maintain Section 32.1 of Civil Procedure Law as a stand-alone norm, accordingly excluding Article 73 of transitional provisions of Civil Procedure Law... Not to exclude paragraph 73 of the Transitional Provisions of the Civil Procedure Law from the law by 31 December of this year, because from 1 January 2021 Section 32.1 of the Civil Procedure Law will cease to be valid... Amendments... So the second point... Amendments intended to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court... the deadline set by the court - 1 January 2021... on the granting of guaranteed minimum income and poor status... Since the right to a fair trial not only provides protection of the rights of the debtor, but also the right of the recoveror to recover his funds in a proportionate manner, the process of execution of the judgment and its quality must not depend on changes in social policy issues, therefore it is necessary to review the amounts currently established for the debtor in Section 594 of the Civil Procedure Law. This requires a certain period of time. In view of the above, it is proposed to freeze the income to be retained by the debtor specified in Section 594(1) and (2) of the Civil Procedure Law, the amount of the state social security benefit for each dependent minor child in 2021, giving a reasonable time to experts to evaluate and review the amounts to be retained by the debtor currently specified in Section 594 of the Civil Procedure Law and criteria for their attachment. In this context, proposals will be made to supplement the transitional provisions of the law. So... Section Three. Amendments to take account of the planned increase in the minimum wage as from 2021. It is therefore necessary to make amendments specifying the conditions under which a person may lodge a claim for maintenance. Having regard to the above-mentioned clarifications, the second sentence of Section 250.19(2) of Civil Procedure Law, which currently states that the court initiates a case on recovery of maintenance for a child in the minimum amount established by the Cabinet of Ministers, where the obstacles specified in the Law on Maintenance Guarantee Fund exist which prevent a person from receiving maintenance in the minimum amount specified by the Cabinet of Ministers from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. Since that amendment is related to the Act of 14 November 2019 ‘Amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund’, which provides for the separation of state-guaranteed maintenance from the minimum wage, subject to the addition of the minimum wage by 2021... the amount of the minimum wage is increased, its entry into force should be established with effect from 1 January 2021, therefore, the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” (No. (874/Lp13)... The law must enter into force on 31 December this year. The Legal Commission recognised the said draft law as urgent and asked the Saeima to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent. Members have not applied for a debate at first reading on the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, do you want to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U16	Yeah. In accordance with Rule 86 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Commission requests that the draft law be examined at first reading without re-examination by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the date for the second reading of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U18	In view of the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, i.e. if none of those present who are eligible under Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure have objected to the fact that the deadline for the submission of proposals may not be fixed and the draft law recognised as urgent at second reading may be examined immediately after its adoption at first reading... At the Commission meeting, one of the potential applicants - the Ministry of Justice and the Legal Bureau - said that they would not submit their proposals. As a result, the Saeima on the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” (No. (874/Lp13) please consider the second final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U19	Thank you. Please tick the section on the procedure to make sure that Members do not object to this draft law being examined at second reading as well. So no Member has applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next agenda is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials” submitted by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. No Member has requested a vote, so Members do not object and the draft law has been passed on to the Commission. In turn, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs has asked the Saeima to review the draft law at first reading today without re-examination by the committee responsible. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U20	Thank you, President of the House, for the floor. Dear Members, The following eight laws are accompanying laws to the new Law on Public Electronic Media and their Governance. The Commission is therefore asking all future eight draft laws to be urgent and to be examined and adopted today in two readings. Thus, we begin by means of the draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the activities of public officials’. This draft law is related to the fact that the Law on Public Electronic Media and its Management provides for the creation of a new institution, the Public Electronic Media Council. These prepared amendments to the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” provide that the same restrictions set by the Law as were applied to members of the National Electronic Media Council are extended to members of the Public Electronic Media Council as well as to members of the Public Electronic Media Council. Thus, in order for everything to be legally correct, it is necessary to make changes to this law. The Commission, as the chair of the sitting has already said, is asking for this draft law to be declared urgent, and on behalf of the Commission I am asking for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U21	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! For - 75, for - no, for - 2. Draft law has been declared urgent. Debate (A Sound Break) ... has not applied. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U22	Dear President, Given that these, as I mentioned above, are technical amendments and have to enter into force at the same time as the Law on Public Electronic Media and their Management on 1 January 2021, the Commission calls for the deadline for submitting proposals not to be fixed and asks that the draft law be examined and adopted by the Saeima at second reading today.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U23	Thank you. Please enable a section on the procedure. Colleagues, if you do not agree with the request for a draft law to be examined today at second reading on behalf of the Commission, you must apply for a procedure. No Member has applied. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the law on budgetary and financial management. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” submitted by the Saeima’s Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. The Saeima does not object, so the draft law has been passed on to the commission. In turn, the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking today to review the draft law at first reading in the Saeima sitting without re-examination in the committee responsible. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U24	Colleagues! See the draft law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management (876/Lp13). Therefore, the new law, the Law on Public Electronic Media and its Management, which is due to enter into force on 1 January 2021, continues to be aligned with these laws. This Law, the Law on Public Electronic Media and their Management, provides for the establishment of a new institution - the Council for Public Electronic Media, so it would be necessary to make appropriate amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management and to apply the same rules to this new Council which... We have already voted in the previous law... as provided for in the Law on the National Electronic Media Council. The Commission is also asking to recognise this draft law as urgent and to support it at first reading. So from the beginning, the vote on urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law on budgetary and financial management as urgent! Please vote mode! On - 74, against - no, refraining - 3. Draft law has been declared urgent. Mr President, we were asked to vote in favour of the draft law at first reading as well. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management. Please vote mode! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the sitting of the Saeima on which the draft law is to be examined at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U26	Yes, honourable colleagues! Since these amendments are technical and must enter into force at the same time as the Law on Public Electronic Media and their Governance, on behalf of the Commission, I call for the deadline for tabling proposals not to be fixed and for this draft law to be examined and adopted by the Saeima today, now, at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U27	Thank you. Please enable a section on the procedure. Colleagues, if you have objections to the examination of the draft law today, in this sitting, at second reading, please apply. Hence, the Saeima does not object. We can also examine the draft law at second, final, final reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the second, final, final reading of the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item on the agenda is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation” submitted by the Saeima’s Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. In turn, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs has asked the Saeima to review the draft law at first reading today without re-examination by the committee responsible. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U28	Colleagues, we have already examined two of the eight laws, which are accompanying laws for the Law on Public Electronic Media and their Governance. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation” (No. 877/ Lp13). The story is that the Public Electronic Media Council (i.e. its new Council) will take over part of the functions of the National Electronic Media Council and therefore it is necessary to make appropriate amendments to the Election Promotion Law as well. Colleagues, the Commission is asking for this draft law to be declared urgent and to be supported at first reading. So from the beginning, the vote on the granting of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation” as urgent! Please vote mode! For - 69, for - 1, for - 3. Draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation”! Please vote mode! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the date on which the draft law at second reading is to be discussed by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U30	Yes, thank you, colleagues, for the vote (A sound defect.) ... this law. Given that these amendments are of a technical nature, just as those voted in the past, and must enter into force at the same time as the Law on Public Electronic Media and their Governance, I call on the Commission not to set a deadline for the submission of proposals and ask the Saeima to consider and adopt the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U31	Thank you. Please enable a section on the procedure. Colleagues, if you have objections to the fact that we are also examining this draft law at second reading in this parliamentary sitting, please apply. Members shall not object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item on the agenda is the draft law on the amendment to the law on state secrecy. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. No Member objects, so that the draft law in question has been passed on to the Commission. On the other hand, the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks the Saeima to consider this draft law at the first reading of the Saeima sitting without re-examination by the committee responsible. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Artus Kaimiņš, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U32	Colleagues! We examine the draft law “Amendment to the law “On State Secret”” (No. 878 Lp13). Public electronic media are strategically important state capital companies and play an important role in protecting the information space. In this context, members of the Board of the publicly available electronic media should also ensure access to and the right to exercise public secrets in the performance of their duties, so that they can communicate effectively with the Media Council, which will be the holder of the public shares in the state of the public electronic media. In particular, in the Law on Public Electronic Media and Their Governance, we have incorporated the fact that the state's secret... admission to national secrecy must also be granted to the members of the Management Board. The Commission is asking for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” as urgent! Please vote mode! On - 74, against - no, refraining - 3. Draft law has been declared urgent. Mr. Neighbours, would you like to add something else? You did not ask for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U34	Yeah. I would like to ask, on behalf of the Commission, for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret” at first reading! Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the session of the Saeima for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U36	On behalf of the Commission, I request that the deadline for the proposals be not fixed. Please consider and adopt this draft law now, now, at the second reading of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U37	Please enable a section on the procedure. Colleagues, if you object to the second reading of the bill at this parliamentary sitting, please apply. Members shall not object. We can look at it at second reading. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On State Secret”” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Latvian State coat of arms””. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law submitted by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs “Amendment to the Law “On the State coat of arms of Latvia” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. Members do not object, so the draft law has been passed on to the commission. On the other hand, the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks to review this draft law at the first reading of the Saeima without re-examination by the responsible committee. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Artus Kaimiņš, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U38	Colleagues, we have examined four of the eight accompanying draft laws that we should adopt today. Currently we are considering the draft law “Amendment to the law “On the Latvian State coat of arms”” (No. 879/Lp13). This draft law provides for the right for the Public Electronic Media Council to use the large state coat of arms. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that this draft law be declared urgent and I ask that it be examined at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the State of Latvia”! Please vote mode! For - 72, for - no, for - 3. Draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the State of Latvia””! Please vote mode! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and also for the session of the Saeima to be held at the second, final and final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U40	The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking not to set a deadline for the submission of proposals and is asking that the draft law be examined and adopted by the Saeima today, now, at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U41	Thank you. Please enable a section on the procedure. Colleagues, if you have objections to the examination of this bill at the second, final, reading session of the Saeima, please apply! Members shall not object. We can vote. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the State of Latvia””! Please vote mode! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on the Film Act. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to Film Law” presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Commission for Human Rights and Public Cases also asks to direct the examination of draft laws at this Saeima meeting at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U42	Yes, thank you, Mr President. We work with the draft law “Amendment to Film Law” (880/Lp13). This draft law provides that a representative of the National Electronic Media Council and a representative of the Public Electronic Media Council will be replaced by a representative of the Latvian Film Council. On behalf of the Commission, please give this draft law urgency and support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U43	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to Film Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! For - 76, for - no, for - 3. Draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Film Law! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final, reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U44	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the deadline for tabling proposals not to be fixed and for the draft law on the Film Act to be examined at this sitting of the Saeima at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U45	Thank you. Please enable a section on the procedure. Colleagues, if you have objections to the examination of this draft law at this sitting of the Saeima in the second, final, reading session, please apply. Members shall not object. We can therefore vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on Film Law! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the bill ‘Amendments to the Diaspora Act’. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Diaspora Law” presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. In turn, the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks to direct the examination of these draft laws at the first reading of the Saeima today, without re-examination by the committee responsible. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U46	Colleagues! This and the next draft law are those that we still have to adopt so that the Law on Public Electronic Media and their Governance can start working on 1 January 2021. So we are now looking at the draft law "Amendments to the Diaspora Act" (No. 881/Lp13). Its changes are as follows: The functions of the National Electronic Media Council in the area of policy in Diaspora are taken over by this new Council, the Public Electronic Media Council, which requires appropriate amendments to the Diaspora law. Please give urgency to this draft law and consider it today at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U47	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Diaspora Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! On - 74, against - no, refraining - 3. Draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Diaspora Law! Please vote mode! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U48	Yeah. ( A sound defect.) ... These amendments to the Diaspora Act are also technical. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the deadline for the submission of proposals not to be fixed and for the draft law to be examined at this parliamentary meeting at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U49	Please enable a section on the procedure. Colleagues, if you have objections to the second, final, reading of this draft law... without the deadline for the submission of proposals... in this sitting of the Saeima, please apply. Members shall not object. We can therefore vote. Please, call! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Diaspora Law! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” submitted by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Cases also asks the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” to be reviewed at this sitting of the Saeima at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U50	Colleagues, we have examined seven of the eight accompanying draft laws. This is the last accompanying draft law in all this legislative package on the entry into force of the Law on Public Electronic Media and its governance. Currently we are considering the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 882/Lp13). The draft law provides that the President of the Public Electronic Media Council and the Ombudsman shall have the same monthly salary as the President of the National Electronic Media Council and that a member of the Public Electronic Media Council as a member of the National Electronic Media Council. The draft law provides that in 2021, the funding necessary for the remuneration of members of the Council for Public Electronic Media and the Ombudsman of Public Electronic Media is covered by the State budget. Please also declare this, last, accompanying draft law urgent and support today at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U51	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please vote mode! For - 75, for - no, for - 1. Draft law has been declared urgent. Mr. Neighbouring has already asked for support for the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U52	Colleagues! I have to repeat... I must say once again that these amendments are technical and I ask, on behalf of the Commission, not to set a deadline for the submission of proposals and I ask that this bill be examined and adopted at this second reading of the Saeima. I would like to add that on behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank the Legal Office of the Saeima and Gatis Melnūdis personally for the great work they have done on this package of all eight draft laws accompanying the draft laws... all of this is arranged, discussed and led to the stage that we are now... voting. So, colleagues, I ask you to support this draft law today at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U53	Thank you. Please enable a section on the procedure. Colleagues, if any of you object to the second, final, reading of the draft law by the Saeima at today's sitting, please apply. Members shall not object. So we can vote. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. The next item on the agenda for this meeting was "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U54	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Roads”” (No. 854/Lp13), decided to support this draft law and to direct it to the first reading of the Saeima. The draft law provides that as of 1 October 2021 the daily maintenance work of public roads is selected by “State Roads of Latvia” according to the delegation of the Ministry of Transport. On the other hand, the “Latvian Road Maintainer” will carry out day-to-day maintenance of public roads in accordance with the delegation agreement until 30 September 2021, as well as in case there will be objective reasons why day-to-day maintenance of public roads cannot be ensured in the relevant region in accordance with the laws and regulations on public procurement. The draft law commission considered it urgent to be able to manage the procurement as the maintainer of public roads until 1 October 2021. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent and supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U55	Mrs Svelova, do you want to debate urgency? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Švecova: “Yes, I want to debate urgency!” ) Yes, please give you a name! Apply then, please, again! Please! Mrs Švekova's name is on the matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U56	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! I ask you not to recognise this draft law as urgent for the following reasons. This concerns a very important procedure - the maintenance of the roads of Latvia. Until now, this process has been carried out by “Latvian Road Maintenance” and was spent on the process from the state budget on average from 53 to 60 million euros per year. This department, a public undertaking, provided technical works to maintain public roads owned and supervised by the State. This draft law, which we are now planning to recognise as an urgent and acceptable law, provides for a very important matter - the transfer of Latvian roads to private service. I think... and repeatedly draw my colleagues' attention to the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit... on the problem... and that this is an hasty decision. It's not thoughtful. In addition, at the commission meeting... The Public Expenditure and Audit Commission was presented with a presentation showing... and explained the experience of other countries, namely Estonia, Lithuania and Finland. In Finland, only the State ensures the maintenance of roads. In Lithuania, too, the state maintains public roads. In Estonia, mentioned as an example, only a partial transfer of maintenance of roads, public roads, to the private sector took place. In my opinion, very many risks can be caused by the unthinking, hasty adoption of the draft law in question. There is more to it. In my view, there is now a procedure under which private business is transferred - from next year! - 100 million of the taxpayers... use of state budget resources. I therefore strongly oppose the urgent handling of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U57	Mrs Švelova spoke against the urgency. One can speak against, one can speak for. The name of Member Janis Butan is “for the urgency”. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U58	Hello, colleagues, again! I informed you that up to now the maintenance of roads has been carried out by “Latvian road operator” based on a delegation ending on 31 December of this year. The following year, the road maintenance reform is being carried out, within which “Latvian State Roads” will launch a competition for... There's going to be... In total, there will be 19 lotes, and until the results of this competition are known, these amendments to the law will determine that in fact the maintenance of roads – as until now – will be carried out by “Latvian Road Maintainer”. And even if the results of the tender are not known within the time limit... then also in the lots where the results are not available, these works will be carried out by “The Maintainer of the Latvian Roads”. Taking into account that this delegation expires on 31 December, it is necessary to adopt the law as a matter of urgency in order to ensure the maintenance of roads by 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U59	Thank you. One Member has spoken against the urgency, one about the urgency. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads” as urgent! Please vote mode! For -63, for -17, for -2. Draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start the debate after a break. Colleagues, it's time for a break. So we come back to this Saeima sitting at 3.30 p.m. Registration of Members' presence. Registration has taken place. Colleagues, break 30 minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U60	Honourable Members! Let us continue with the second remote emergency sitting after the break on 10 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads”, first reading. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U61	Yeah, thank you. Hello! ‘ Maintainer of the roads of Latvia’ is a state-owned company. Its organisational structure consists of 12 administrative departments, 9 road districts. LAU has 26 regional units, which are evenly distributed throughout Latvia and which employ 1262 people. ‘ Latvian road operator” has vehicles, tractors and special equipment, in total 4911 units. ‘ The road operator of Latvia” owns 178 or 26 percent of all 675 road governors registered in the country, equipped with GPS equipment, ensuring the work performed and the record of routes. At the same time, during the meeting of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, when the question of possible privatisation of “Latvian road operator” was discussed, a discussion was held during which information was received that some technical and material security was taken into lease or financial credit... as a result. And so this technique is also the credit obligation for this agency. One more moment. Currently, for the maintenance of public roads... providing a delegate task... within execution... on the basis of the eighth paragraph of Article 3 of the Value Added Tax Act... The task performed within the framework of the delegation agreement is outside the field of VAT and is not the subject of VAT... the subject of value added tax. Consequently, the amount of funding currently allocated to the maintenance of public roads... does not provide for value added tax... and is intended to provide full funding for public road maintenance functions. As a result, in 2019 “Latvian Road Maintainer” was able to carry out day-to-day maintenance of national roads by 3.5 million more. What are the drawbacks of market opening? The value added tax of 21 per cent is applicable to the service purchased as a result of public procurement and therefore this part of the funding envisaged cannot be used to cover the costs related to road maintenance. Until now, when providing services throughout the territory of the country and on all types of public roads, “Latvian road operator” has ensured that it has the necessary infrastructure and resources to provide services in full. In turn, other market participants provide services and ensure the availability of resources only in part of the territory of Latvia according to the specifics of the activities of these economic operators and the territory of activity. Therefore, this model of road maintenance is likely to lead to the establishment and maintenance of a parallel structure at least in part. ‘ Maintainer of the roads of Latvia” and private (not to be heard.) ... economic operators, thus generally increasing the cost of providing services and making unwise use of resources in the economy as a whole. According to the delegation agreement, up to 20 per cent of the turnover of “Latvian road operator” can be derived from offering services in the market. Therefore, by reducing the amount of the delegation agreement of “Latvian road operator” it loses revenue not only from reduced state funding, but also revenues from commercial activities, as the right of “Latvian road operator” to provide commercial services will be reduced proportionately. In the event of financial difficulties or withdrawal of performance of the contract for a private operator ensuring the maintenance of a particular section of the motorway, public roads may be excluded. This is just part of those arguments and considerations, why I believe that... At present, I do not support this draft law and the opening up of the market. Please vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U62	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U63	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I will also speak against this draft law. And I'll explain why. If we look at an annotation of the bill, then... The estimated savings that the whole of this experiment could generate are between half a million and two million in the second and third years... what could happen if this competition... There will be... If we look at what this draft law has been agreed with, it has been agreed with the Ministry of Transport and “State Roads of Latvia”. These are the institutions involved in this work. Of course, it is very nicely recorded here that the draft law will have a positive impact on the economy, but I would like to talk about these very 'positive' examples, which are now... executed by the Ministry of Transport. And this, I think, is the case... It will be just such a big, fat addition to those already, in my opinion, quite scandalous examples, which are already in the field of the Ministry of Transport. Of course, it is mentioned that already now municipalities are choosing private operators to maintain roads, and these are not a few examples; there are quite a number of such examples. It has to be taken into account, however, that in the municipalities, when maintaining these roads, winter maintenance, and publicising these purchases... Any municipality, any territory... the volumes that are transferred to this purchase are not so large, for example, in the same county of Cesis or in any other, or somewhere else... in Liepaja or Daugavpils... If such purchases... if problems arise with the service provider or the service provider during the design of the contract put too unfavorable conditions on the part of the public, then there are very free hands in which municipalities can vary, and this competition is indeed sufficient - it can vary when selecting other service providers. There is indeed some kind of competition here. This case, which is currently being proposed by the Ministry of Transport, is, in my opinion, much more extensive. And there could be a situation that... whether they are five, 10 or 30 lots - there is no difference. There can be a situation similar to that of public transport now - calmly it can be said that in the future, roads will be cleaned with electric cars, for example, and this is a green course. And thus, they will compete with the same “carriers of the roads of Latvia” and possibly another whole range of other entrepreneurs. I don't want to see anything like that! But the current situation, where the Procurement Monitoring Office is very involved to stop the insanity of the Ministry of Transport, shows that this approach is quite questionable to the Ministry in organising such cases, at least now... under the leadership of the Ministry, absolutely. I think... in addition, to move forward in an even more urgent way with such a fundamental change - I think it is strong, very hasty. At the end of the day, we're subject to... The risk that they... Three or two may come again, perhaps even one businessman who wins all these lots. And here, Mrs Švekova said that those loans, the various liabilities assumed, which are at the moment for this company, which is practically entirely based on this public order within the framework of this existing contract... It's already at the moment... if these lots are returned to someone else, it is a monthly question that this company is simply being wound up. It's not going to be building roads right away. That would be the other extreme. And at that point in time, this company is likely to be wound up. And what the state would do at that time if the state... own assets, let's take, A-class roads more... your assets will no longer, will be just an entrepreneur... And on the day the snow comes up so neat... The economic operator may have different types of circumstances and this price may change significantly. In such circumstances, a country can end up in a situation similar to that of years in the public transport sector, where the state is always hostage. Right now, the state... I don't even know if you can call it hostage. This is already a much more difficult situation where the country is currently buying public transport. I think this is just a matter of time when, at last, the Ministry of Transport will realise that this purchase has completely failed and that it has to be done completely again. And this is the same case. We've got... one huge arson has already occurred in front of us all, we have already made requests for this, and this story has not yet come to an end. As a result... if it allows the Ministry of Transport to move in the way in which the Ministry is moving, it will mean that most public transport undertakings in the public sector will simply be closed down and all this will be in very limited hands, in private hands, which has not so far shown that they would have worked in good faith. And now... in this opening of the market for road operators... I believe that this is not the time to experiment with such things. There are more correct ways to act... Inside the road operators themselves... Similar to what happens in many municipal companies, such as waste management, there is also a rather large conflict between the private and public sectors, but this is being addressed, and these negatives have already been severely reduced. There are different ways... Of course, every company has to analyse what he's inside... may also organise competitive tendering, be outsourced to be done by the private sector. A hundred percent of all works should not be done by the public sector, and in this case this would be the safest way. Also now farmers here are involved in maintaining roads during the winter. These are not large volumes, but it is possible to develop and it is possible to go further. It is now being proposed to amend this law as a matter of urgency, giving the Ministry of Transport the right to open the market, and here I have to join Mrs Švekova that opening up its market essentially means that the public sector company will have to be dissolved in the near future. No one can guarantee that anyone will not come with dumping and dumping, and these purchases will not be won. As I said, there can be even one company that won all the lots. These can be three companies, like public transport... not three companies, but three characters who meet together and agree on how to manage this market in the future. And just a country can get into a very bad situation. I'm on these topics... I myself was Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry of Transport. Even at the time when I was in the Ministry of Transport, these ideas were, but when experts discussed this situation, despite the hugeness of the private business lobby to do it, we did not allow it or did it, and on the contrary! - We looked in a completely different direction. You are now in front of these lobbys, let us say that, broken down, you believe that this competition is what is most important and best. Now, look at how public transport has been used to you. Ask yourself a fair question as to whether this is really the most appropriate step - whether it is really the policy that you have promised your constituents, whether it is the country's most strategic indeed advantageous direction, how to go, the safest direction. And in this case, the issue is the day-to-day maintenance of all Latvian roads, and I think we can get into a really very, very uncertain situation. Towards such an issue so quickly - I think it is absolutely... Not at all. On the contrary, I would ask you not to look at this issue at the moment, to vote against it. And I call on my fellow Members who vote in favour to really look at what is currently being offered. I have the feeling that this has not happened to the end, and I call for the vote to be 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U64	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U65	Colleagues! I would like to inform you that this reform has been going on for more than a year. As early as 2019, when we started our work at the Ministry of Transport, it was known that the delegation contract ended on 31 December 2020 and a corresponding reform was launched that led to the... appropriate amendments were developed, studies were carried out and the best options evaluated. And one of the arguments why we reform is that at the moment we cannot make sure that “Latvian road operator” provides the most efficient services at the best price, because he simply does not have competition in this area of services, because he is the only service provider. So if we open up the market, we can find the actual price for the service as a result of purchasing in a competitive environment. That's one. Second. There are restrictions directly related to involvement in other segments of business, and this would be a specific section of road construction where it is limited to how much such works and services can be carried out by the company. Thus, when the market is opened, this restriction is removed and, consequently, “Latvian road operator” can be involved in the road construction segment. Go on. There were concerns about how much maintenance could be provided... In fact, procurement is already being carried out for certain works. So the state must pay for these works. And, of course, there's... I'm not going to go into nuances, but... the actual amount of work to be carried out is defined by the State: the amount of the order is made, the amount is also carried out by the economic operator. And if an economic operator is unable to perform or perform the service required by the contract, the service provider who can provide these services is chosen in the negotiated procedure. If you're talking about... I've already touched a little on that subject of urgency and ignorance... then we must say that in fact we have consulted the various competent authorities, including the Competition Council; entrepreneurs, local authorities, have also been aware of their views, and in fact we see that already now, for example, in the case of municipal roads, the market is open and “Latvian road operator” participates in the competition procedure and often wins these competitions, and provides the local authorities with services for maintaining the roads. So... Since the concern that “Latvian road operator” could stay behind the side is, in my opinion, out of place, because at the moment, in competitive conditions, it is possible to compete in the local road network as a whole... That's all... and so on. I hope that the reform will succeed and call for support for the amendments to the Road Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U66	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U67	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! Reflecting on the presentation by Mr Butane, the road maintenance market in Estonia was opened 20 years ago, and still... In 2019, it also remained only partially open to the road maintenance market, as there are still four lots of... by a public undertaking... As appropriate... Now – as “the keeper of the roads of Latvia”. As a result... and the annual cost per unit has always decreased by an average of 2 per cent by efficiency in processes. This is very important given that the structure itself is also capable of carrying out works effectively. Now - also for this aspect that “Latvian Road Maintainer” receives dividends. It also uses dividends for maintenance of roads, as well as... ensuring, as appropriate, the transfer of dividends to technical credits. One of the last contributions... Accordingly, dividends... It was about 2019 and it was 3 214 113 euros. This is what this company earns and provides for an additional set-back for road maintenance and infrastructure. Of the funds that remain as dividends, for example, EUR 791 981 is invested in restoring the necessary road maintenance equipment and... their quality. And now, on Mr. Butane's arguments... that municipalities are one of the clients for maintaining roads in Latvia. This was the case, and they provided part of the income. First of all, however, we need to understand that there is a crisis at the moment, a recession caused by co-infection, and that, at the same time, local authorities have reduced their income from personal income tax when adopting this state budget. It follows that municipal budgets have lost part of the revenue that the municipalities could also channel to maintain the roads. This further reduces the competitiveness of “Latvian road operator” and consequently the ability to receive orders when operating in this segment of the market. That's why I think I really... if Estonia has been working for 20 years to open the market and has not yet opened up complete road maintenance, if Lithuania has stopped at the state... state road maintenance, if Finland has a mixed model, where the state is very controlled and ensures the maintenance of the roads, then... I believe that at a time of economic crisis... that it is not the time to ensure market opening and to abandon the activities of the “Latvijas road operator” in this segment, ensuring full income transfer to the respective budget of this entity and maintenance of the roads, thus transferring hundreds of millions of private entrepreneurs every year... from next year... maintenance of roads. It looks more like after a very thoughtless, superficial privatisation - without proper preparation of regulatory documents, which would ensure the quality of roads, the compliance of road maintenance with weather conditions, the preservation of human resources, the maintenance of capacity and technical maintenance, which is already... and has already been restored to this unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U68	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U69	Good evening, honourable colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Indeed, this issue is very serious: an amendment to the Road Act, which provides for market opening. You know, if you were to say, some roads in the country, you could just, with one chance, make this competition -- some one or a few lots... and everything's going on. But unfortunately, or fortunately, Latvia is very diverse, and the roads are also very different from the main roads, regional roads, local roads... and so on. In my view, it is, however, so serious that it cannot be rushed. If a state road maintainer - a large company (branches throughout the country) - carries out this basic road, the main road, the maintenance of regional roads, it has acquired the technique, has a repair base, there is a set of specialists. It's a team of experts! It's not like - go to the mushrooms to read, that's the ways to keep! The right thing to do is do all this work, be a very good master, working with graders, excavators, all the other techniques, as well as planning, and so on. Now let's imagine: suddenly divided into lots of Latvia, suddenly - competitions... One of the main questions - what is now the number of companies in Latvia that would be ready to carry out this maintenance? Yes, the municipalities work accordingly, but there are some farmers who have been specializing in each other's business. The municipality maintains the local roads, ranks them, and so on. But to do so at national level, it must be a very serious firm or firm and professional. A Member or a person may not sit down on heavy machinery and let him go there. Local governments have a great deal of experience with this work. Since municipalities have been maintaining their roads for quite a long time, experience has been diverse. Now the company doesn't work for a week - nothing! Well, it's a blow, it's a mud, but it's not so intense. After a week or two, she's already starting to work... or find another one. But if, on a national level, suddenly switch to other firms... State road maintainer - this is, however, a guarantee that roads are in order. There are really professional people there, and municipalities are using very much exactly the public road maintenance services when concluding contracts and so on. I think it's a runaway. Now think - roads are not right in Latvia, very wrong in Latvia, and now... Well, now - let the others already hold, let others already answer! We, Ministry, no! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We can go to absurdity in this way. Then you have to ask: if there are already competitions, then maybe there may be a competition in Latvia for the distribution of funds? Why is it for the Ministry to allocate these funds? Perhaps an agency, a firm that can compete with the Ministry, should be created to manage the funds better? I understand, beautifully it sounds like a competition... All this is liberalisation, it is a liberal policy that we are already experiencing, in fact, since the restoration of independence. There are positive results in many places, but there are no positive results in many places. In my opinion, this road issue is not today's issue, so that we all suddenly push the "for" button and everything happens. That is the responsibility. I cannot take this responsibility today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U70	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U71	Colleagues! I am in favour of this speech by Mr Butan. Mr. Butane has, above all, failed to understand that in the municipality (A sound defect.) ... the structure is significantly different from that of the public administration. And what can be done now in the municipality within one territory... there are also cases where several territories do so. It is not necessarily one against one unnecessary with this state road management... If the lengths of municipal roads are much more than... I think that at least a third of the size is in municipalities... If we look at the roads and the streets, the country has about 20 thousand... The municipalities were probably over 30,000. — Sound Disorder. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U72	Mr. Valains! Mr. Valaiņš, excuse me. Time requires a technical break. Your words are incomprehensible. I have a question for the Technical Department: how long do I need a break? ( Internouncing call.) How much? ( Subtotal: ‘ Ten! ’) ) Ten minutes. So the Technical Department is asking for a break, 10 minutes. After that, the Member Viktors Valainis will speak for the second time, because the sound was shattered, it was difficult to understand what the speaker said. So the technical break by 4.15 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U73	Colleagues! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. So on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads”, first reading. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Mr. Valaiņš, if you want to speak, you have to log in again!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U74	Yeah. Colleagues, I hope that now the hearing is better. I will be very brief about its main points. First of all, Mr. Butane set this example - the municipalities... it is not correct. Municipal roads cannot be compared to national roads. State roads - this means 20 thousand kilometres. Likely, it doesn't matter how to share, but... They may be in the hands of one or two, three businessmen... Similar to what has happened now with the provision of public transport services. And under such circumstances, the state will not have any opportunity to regulate this market in any way. If we are talking about costs, there are a number of other methods of determining the reasonableness of costs. All the more so that... It is primarily the responsibility of shareholders to make sure that the company works as a good owner and that the costs are as effective as possible. For my part, I believe that this is a very hasty decision: to move forward at this point in time, and I would call for this draft law to be rejected or for a very long time to come. As I said, there are things that the draft law has not taken into account - for example, to identify part of the lot that... that at least one major lot remains in each region, which would remain at the disposal of the road operator and not be the subject of these calls for tenders. This is one of the proposals - and it works now in our neighbouring Estonia - that, however, there is some capacity for the public sector to maintain, so that, at the time when there is an X hour, when this service really needs to be provided, the country does not come into a situation where it simply, speaking in a jar, makes a bill - either like this or nothing! Moreover, the country also has international commitments, which include the quality, time, speed of road cleaning... the way in which it should be done. And here, experiments of this kind, I think, are absolutely out of place. Once again, I call on colleagues to be objective and to see how the Ministry of Transport... It is the Ministry of Transport that has recently announced these large purchases. What are the winners of these big purchases, you can look at it by simply snatching. Look at these businessmen who... and how the Ministry has succeeded in such highly responsible tasks during this period. In my opinion, the Ministry should now focus on the swift abolition of public transport procurement and on dealing with this very important issue as a matter of priority, before opening new fronts that... Well, quite... at least now it seems that this is a very, very unthinkable step. The fact that the year is being discussed within the ministry does not mean that indeed everyone is determined and indeed all these solutions are thought out and prepared. I personally have a great conviction that this is a very, very unthinkable decision, colleagues. And in the end, when this happens, then I think it will be too late - then you tell me: we already said that it will be. There have also been other similar cases. Colleagues, I call on you to think today before we make such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U75	The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U76	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, dear colleagues! According to the debate, colleagues have not been in the regions recently or have not even become familiar with what is being done by “the keeper of the roads of Latvia”, and this topic is being discussed very theoretically and superficially. As I come from a municipality myself, I know how these purchases are going for cleaning or cleaning municipal roads. So - why is always “the keeper of the roads of Latvia” in these competitions win at the lowest price? The reason is very simple: if a businessman has to find the funds himself, invest in technical equipment, ensure maintenance of this machinery himself, provide specialists, meet all the necessary requirements, then “Latvian road operator” does not have to worry about financing of technical base, nor does he have to worry about maintenance of technical base, because this company is not the main player of profit already. Although profits are being made - and profits are being made by subtracting this market from private operators. Yes, “Latvian road maintainer” participates in the competition and wins even maintenance of roads in “Latvian State Forests”, where... by definition it is also a state enterprise; therefore, this money movement takes place only between state institutions. And so the private sector cannot develop. The private sector cannot invest in technology, is forced, in simple language, to eat from a table ruin, which remains above those objects where “Latvian road maintainer” simply does not want to or does not have economic value to operate. I would like to remind Mrs Švelova that in the municipality the budget has been drawn up in such a way that there is a separate account for maintaining roads. In the past, there was a special budget, now this budget has been merged into one, and this does not in any way affect the financial security of the municipality's road maintenance, as you say, because the State transfers money to the municipality to maintain the roads. Hence, no obligation is with personal income tax... that part of the revenue. Continuing as “the keeper of the roads of Latvia” - I agree that the roads of local governments, the roads of the state forests of Latvia, also various types of these roads... be returned to private capital management and that “Latvian road operator” maintains the main roads, inter-city and... Well, let's say, their category could be determined by ministerial officials. In any case, I am in favour of this market being opened up. We can look at the Finnish model, where it works very successfully... Although in the coming year... for at least the previous two years... And, look, snowfalls are not very threatening us in the coming years too... but if there is one, then there is a very fast renewal of the movement on all roads due to the fact that the country cooperates with local entrepreneurs, because the “Latvian road operator” has bought a new technique, not always capacity allows to quickly do all the work on the roads. By contrast, the local operator or the capital company is able to react quickly and attract additional techniques. So that - I am in favour of the market being opened up. To fear what will be and how will be, what will be the purchases - I think it is wrong because... Just... if the public as well as the Saeima have the opportunity to monitor and control these purchases. And that's possible. Not to live in the conviction that now everyone is a thief, everything is bad and everything that has been in the past is good at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U77	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U78	Once again... Dear colleagues, I saw that Minister Tālis Linkait had applied for... Unfortunately, there is no more debate... Sorry, I wanted to hear his opinion, too. But I would recommend... present an alternative for further action in this context. The fact that by 1 January 2021 the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is expected to have drawn up a draft law on administrative regions is completely forgotten. Now it is difficult for me to say that when this draft law is actually drafted - probably the deadline will be different - but these administrative regions will be. Here is one way of dealing with this painful issue: actually transferring a large part of the local roads and also a part of the regional routes directly to the administrative regions (of course with the funding!) . And then, in these regions, regional authorities could decide on the maintenance and management of these roads, as this is already a matter of fact for the regions. Thus, it would be removed from the Ministry of Transport's shoulders, here's this difficult issue. Some of the roads, which are the main roads of the State, should indeed be maintained, say, under the responsibility of the State, under the supervision of the Ministry, and public road maintenance should, however, be maintained at least in the coming years. It would be possible that this would change the strict order, but in this case, when these lots are offered, which, in my view, would not be in line with the boundaries of the administrative regions, because we cannot even say at this point what the boundaries of these administrative regions will be, I think, a little bit too early: these amendments to the law. Therefore, I would ask, however, not to rush with this law, because all "for" and "for" must be seriously considered. The market is, of course, a good thing, but... Even more concerns about road operators, because mixing is not art, but then... What will happen after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U79	The name of the Minister of Transport to Far Linkaith.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U80	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, It is interesting to listen to this discussion and also to have the concerns that we also had when we developed this concept of opening up the road market, because we also studied the experiences of other countries and the risks that market opening can present. It should be stressed that, contrary to what Mrs Schvekov says, both in Finland and in Estonia, there is a long-standing experience in handing over these works to the private sector. Of course, it has also happened with the method of error and attempt, but it is not only the one who does nothing. For example, in Finland... I would, however, like to clarify that it is the responsibility of the regions to maintain roads there, and the regions contract these road maintenance works for the private sector. Go on. I just heard from Mr. Kazinovsky that if the state keeps its paths, then (The Sound Break.) ... someone else, but if it were a region, here is where the private sector can participate. In the interest of the State, it is in the interest of the State as a customer to obtain a quality service for possible reasons (A sound defect.) ... We can achieve this if we promote competition and also find a strong private offer. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Transport here is like a... working under two hats, because of course we are also holders of the capital shares in “Latvian Road Administration”. And we are interested in “the keeper of the roads of Latvia” working more effectively – much more effectively. And I agree with my colleague, Mr Možville, that cross-subsidisation is possible there today. And often “Latvian road keeper” starts in municipal procurement with such low prices. This may indicate that efficiency in this company could be significantly higher. And neither do we believe that the price that “Latvian road operator” currently demands for its services on public roads meets market requirements; that this is the lowest possible price. On the contrary, we see that the price of such services in certain municipalities is lower (in Liepaja, Jelgava, also in Riga). And the only way to make sure at a fair price is through this kind of procurement. And that's why... I will remind you why this law is being examined right now and why we voted for urgency. This is because, on 31 December, the seven-year delegation agreement with the road operator expires. And you or I don't want to, we have to decide how we're going to keep going. Both the government's declaration had already originally recorded that we would open this market, and after careful investigation, inviting the International Auditors of the KPMG, who evaluated several opening models, to conclude that the market should be opened up. It is necessary to organise a procurement by dividing the entire territory of Latvia into at least 19 lots in order to find out what the possible price is. And “Latvian road operator” will be able to participate with all other service potential providers, and if “Latvian road operator” is able to convince that it will be able to offer the lowest price on the market... In the most economically advantageous offer, then “Latvian road operator” will be able to continue working without any problems in the territory of Latvia. Mrs Švelova mentioned the example of Estonia here, and it was in Estonia that, when opening the market and organising auctions, or tenders, the local... Well, a former state-owned company also engaged in road maintenance, and so it continues to be one of the market players... and won. It is very important from a sectoral point of view to ensure the levelling of costs not only for “Latvian road operator” but also for other market participants, such as road construction companies... For example, other undertakings that may potentially provide such services. If we now see that road construction companies work mostly in summers and that during the winter they have a hole or hole and have to let their employees open, then as a result of such competitions, they also have the opportunity to employ their employees during the winter period, even though they have to pass the costs. As a result, these costs could be lower for both road construction and road maintenance as a whole. The fact that we divide into lots of lots is an opportunity not only for big road construction companies, but also for regional road construction companies to participate in this country's road maintenance work... so, as I have already promised initially, that it is not just a business of some big businessmen. I hope very much that such applications will also come from regional entrepreneurs. Whether there are players at all who could participate in this opening of the market. According to the data of the KPMG study, these are about 50 companies working in Latvia that could participate in the construction of roads. ‘ The State Roads of Latvia have already organised the first discussion - there is such a hearing with potential stakeholders - and we have seen that the interest in participating in these works is very great on the part of entrepreneurs, private entrepreneurs. Of course, the opposite will be quality requirements, there will be guarantees, there will be everything else, so that there is no in winter to break down snow if suddenly something happens. All these requirements will be further developed in the competition documentation of the “State Roads of Latvia”. At the moment, I call on you, colleagues, to support this draft law at first reading, both because our deadlines are over (31 December is very close and we have to decide on transitional rules on how we can work for the next year), but also because this is one major government commitment and one major road construction event. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U81	I closed the debate. Thank you to the Minister for Transport for his explanation and for taking part in the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U82	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U83	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads” at first reading! Please, let's vote! On - 68, against - 9, refraining from - 2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U84	The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 December of this year, and consideration of the draft law - 17 December of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U85	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 11 December this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 17 December this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Sandis Riekstins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U86	The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 742/Lp13), decided to support this draft law and to direct it to the first reading of the Saeima. Point 12 of the Transitional Provisions of the Hunting Act provides for the implementation of the relevant containment measures until the density of the wild boar population has been reduced to at least one wild boar per 200 hectares but not more than 31 March 2020. Since the size of the wild boar population throughout the territory of Latvia is not reduced to the deadline set in the transitional provisions and since the wild boar population is rapidly recovering from African swine fever in partially resusciated areas, it is necessary to continue the measures for the control and eradication of African swine fever in Latvia until the country has obtained the status of an officially free country from African swine fever. The Legislative Commission considered it urgent to take measures to control African swine fever from 1 January. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent and supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U87	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 68, for - 14, for - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U88	On behalf of the Commission, I call once again for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U89	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U90	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 12 December of this year, and consideration of the draft law shall be held by the Saeima at its meeting on 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-12-10-PT13-2168-U91	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 12 December this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 17 December this year. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Questions have been put to Members. Members Stepanenko, Gobzem, Svecova, Sprūde and Smits have submitted a question “On the National Waste Management Plan 2021-2028. the possible closure of the project and its landfill "Brows". We hand it over to the Prime Minister for a reply. Members Zarins, Agešins, Rubiks, Tutins and Klementjevs have submitted an urgent question “On additional information to be provided by the Ministry of Economics regarding the monitoring and control of the activities of subsidised power plants submitted to the Saeima by the Electricity Market Act”. This urgent question is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs for a reply. There's also a record of Members. It was a success. Honourable Members! Thank you all for your work today. I closed my second remote emergency session on 10 December this year.
