ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! On 20 March 2020, an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima was opened. Before we start to look at the agenda, please, let us honor our fellow Members, Juta Striki... She's gone through eternity. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. On the agenda - Communication on Ralfa Nemiro 13. Reinstatement of the parliamentary mandate. Member Aldis Adamovičs on behalf of the commission of mandates, ethics and applications. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U2	Thank you, Presidium. Good morning, colleagues! The Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application declares that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 5 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure and with the application of Ralfa Nemiro of 17 March 2020, with a request for the renewal of the parliamentary mandate which he had appointed for the term of office of the Minister, he is renewed 13. The parliamentary mandate. Consequently, 13. Aivars Geidāns, whose mandate was temporarily approved by the Saeima while the elected Members of the political party KPV LV from the list of candidates in the Zemgale electoral district are serving as a minister. Please confirm this statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U3	Thank you. The notification is approved. The next item is the Bureau reports. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Invalidity” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On measures to prevent and manage threats and consequences of the State due to the spread of Covid-19” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Commercial Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Moving to the next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust of officials. The draft decision ‘On the dismissal of Zita Zariņa from the post of member of the State Audit Council’. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U4	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Given that we elected Zita Zarins as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia, we will have to remove him from office as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office because otherwise she has two positions, and this is not correct. The request to support this draft decision. The budget and financial (tax) commission unanimously supported the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U5	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The fourth title on the agenda is "Provision of draft decisions". The draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 17 March 2020 No. 106 ‘Amendment to the Cabinet Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 “Advertising the Emergency” and Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 19 March 2020 No. 115 ‘Amendments to the Cabinet Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 Promulgating an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U6	Hello, colleagues! At its meeting on 20 March 2020, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption considered amendments to Resolution No. 103 promulgating an emergency. Those amendments introduce additional restrictions in the event of an emergency. I'm not calling everyone. I'm just calling them the most important. You can, of course, get acquainted with the others in detail in the Consolidated Order already announced. First. Consequently, the National Commission for Emergency Medicine is entitled to take decisions on epidemiological safety measures binding on health authorities. Second. The Minister of Defence shall decide on the conduct of training in military educational institutions. On the other hand, the Social Adjustment Education Institution “Naukšens” continues to work. The Minister of Education shall also have the right, if necessary, to take a decision on the extension of the school year. Third. Detailed time limit for entertainment places from 8.00 a.m. to 23.00 a.m. Four. Postpone the execution of provisional deprivation of liberty and the execution of administrative arrests. Dismisses from convoying prisoners at the request of the initiators of proceedings, including to court hearings. It is also intended to stop the displacement of prisoners between prisons, except, of course, to the Olaine prison hospital. There is also an addition to postponing the transfer and take-over of sentenced and arrested persons abroad. There is an addition that specifies the action of persons returning from abroad who need to call on their respective phones. The social distance has also been clarified. Establish responsibilities for individuals with a confirmed Covid-19 diagnosis and their contact persons. In addition, exceptions have been made to self-isolated persons in respect of staff on passengers, freight and technical journeys who do not show any signs of infection and who are not in contact with patients. The conditions for overtime institutions as well as travel documents have also been added. The Commission, having heard the reports of the institutions, considers these additional restrictions to be justified, necessary and appropriate to the situation. I therefore call on the Commission to support these additional restrictions.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U7	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U8	Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to thank the government for... Well... perhaps not so much in time, but nevertheless constructive work on these additional restrictions. Secondly, I must express my great regret at the fact that some have still not understood that this really is an emergency and that our sponsors must be freed from it. Here I am talking about closing gambling... the closure of gambling medicines and also various entertainment sites. Because what we read in this new... in these new amendments, there is clearly an absurd regulation of the fact that various entertainment sites, including gaming halls, can still function - only in time between 8.00 and 23.00. In this way, you have created a very successful hole in this regulation for some operators on the whole, seeing that a very large number of event organisers and other operators, who even perhaps had not yet been able to deal with this restriction, had already abandoned their measures. But in this case, on the background, when libraries are closed, when all concerts, all concert halls are closed, you still allow the possibility that certain gambling halls are open. I would very much like to hear from one of you, the honourable colleagues who may have participated in the government sitting, the reasons why we should keep the gaming halls open today, at this time. Because if we talked about a gambling tax in peaceful times, of course, we kept in mind that we have a developed tourism sector, we have a lot of foreigners who come to Latvia, go to play a long time and leave their money here, in our budget. In this case, no foreigner will no longer travel to Latvia at the moment, the borders are hard. Then you, honourable colleagues, want to keep this hall open to the people of Latvia, who will probably also be driven to despair, taking into account what awaits us all. In that sense, the money that the state budget seems to expect from the gaming halls... There will be blood, tear money from the gambling industry, which will be left by our citizens, Latvia, who will be affected by this situation. Think, please, do you really... whether you really need it at the moment, or whether really sponsors in this case are much more important than what will happen to the households affected by this problem. You have abandoned the influence of sponsors - so you said when you chose party funding... Then withdraw from party funding and continue working with sponsors. Keep on, but give up its money, because it will be very much needed in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U9	Thank you. Name to Member Raimond Bergman. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Bergmanis: “Can I ask you to unite... ?” ) Do Members object to the unification of the time of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U10	Hello, colleagues! This virus does not grade - a position or an opposition. It does not choose between rich or poor. It doesn't even choose healthy or sick people. It has no borders - no borders, no politics, no religion, no economic blocks, no continents. It has no feelings - neither hatred nor compassion. Taking note of the aforementioned Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 115, of course, like my colleagues, I too have a number of proposals that should be put forward in this regard. The Ordinance covers a rather broad range of issues and at the same time certain very specific issues. It should be noted that several of the points it contains are more precise and complementary. Whatever the need to help everyone at once, it is important to recognise that the principle of proportionality applies in this situation, comparing the painful needs of individual persons with the interests of society as a whole. Weighting them also in the long term. Only the person who has taken responsibility and care for the functioning of the state for the benefit of society - the Prime Minister, who is aware of the situation in general, can properly analyse and take decisions. Therefore, with careful consideration of the facts, I will repeat what I said earlier: the coordination of crisis management and the reliance on officials to whom certain functions have been delegated are extremely important. What can the Saeima do in this regard? To perform their duties according to the best consciousness, providing the most effective help and support to the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, the committee rejected the draft decision of the Saeima on the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers in a situation with the spread of the serious infectious disease Covid-19 in the territory of Latvia. However, this does not prevent you from calling on me, my fellow Members, to put emotions aside and to address matters constructively. In accordance with the principle of separation of power set out in the Constitution and the current procedure, the Saeima would be obliged to call on the public to adhere strictly to the orders issued by the Cabinet of Ministers so far and subsequent orders relating to the emergency situation. By relying on the proper and professional performance of the duties of the responsible officials, I invite the Saeima to express its readiness to make, as a matter of urgency, necessary amendments to legal regulations within its competence in order to implement legal crisis management measures, while ensuring legal confidence and respect for principles of good governance. I call on the co-legislators to cooperate with the executive, just as the government and individual Members of the Saeima call on the public to co-operate with the people. I call on the Saeima to give our full support to those persons to whom we have delegated both responsibility and responsibility to protect all of us, while the Saeima remains the guardian of the executive power. I invite you to support Cabinet Order No. 115!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U11	Thank you. The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U12	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for support, but it is imperative that some things be adjusted by going on through the commissions. One of these is - I am calling for a very serious hearing at the moment in business organisations, which, I understand, have also turned to the government to the fact that this virus is outside the defined sectors. This virus is, and could have predicted, spread much more widely. At present, one very successful exporting company - the manufacturer of electrical equipment - has stopped, and has dismissed 40 employees (although the demand for its products continues to grow) only because one raw material is no longer available to the company. And, as you understand, the device cannot be completed without one detail. It is therefore broader and will not now be by sector. There will now be company-by-business and also some order of priority. I therefore call for a mandatory hearing in business organisations. They are now the closest to reality. They are the ones who know rather quickly than what is happening in the economy. There's nothing else. We may feel that the food sector, for example, is absolutely untouched, and at this point in time, perhaps this is the case. But it's enough to stop a company... For example, packaging manufacturers in China to stop the company even with a growing... increasing demand. It must be corrected. Yeah... and I think at all: since we are not looking at the issue of the Minister for Economic Affairs today, I understand that it is not too important... Sometime next week, most likely. Seriously, I would ask all of us to think together that perhaps at the moment business organisations are those who could ask what they think about this post too, and perhaps even delegate a person to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U13	Thank you. The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U14	Hello, colleagues! Let me start by saying that I too, of course, support this draft law, but there are some "but". Thank you very much, of course, to the ministers, who are now working a lot and praiseworthy for themselves, but now, when we come together, something does not really work to the end. There are things that still... which should be looked at and, however, adopted. Obviously, there are additional sectors that need to be supported. I very much hope that this work will continue... and quite quickly. The next thing I wanted to say is that, obviously, those regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are, well, gentlely as let it be said, because at the moment I look around and the interpretation of things is going on. Let's take the sport, private... sports halves and the like are closed. At the same time, in one particular municipality, in a port municipality, which has always been a special place with the country, it is not a reason why all the training processes take place. Last night, the Ventspils Football Club was training there. Then I have a question: why... Why are we private here now... and rightly close, but the Olympic Centre in Ventspils continues to work? ( The interdependencies of the fraction.) Why can we... In Valmiera and Daugavpils, there are blood sampling sites in the Olympic centers, but Ventspils sports? People dear, well, somehow, I guess we're working right now! I would, however, call on time to adopt even more stringent measures to make it clear to everyone what has to be done and what has not to be done. And another call. I hear more and more that colleagues (Interface) is concerned: whether or not you come to the Saeima that there is this danger. Colleagues, we have to come, this is our job! If we do not come here and fear, what will we expect next? If someone doesn't have to work inside, you can get a mandate. ( Interface: “A hero! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U15	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U16	Yes, colleagues! I think that everyone has the opportunity, particularly those who are members of the coalition, to make their own proposals and, in some way, to influence their ministers, including the Ministry of Education and Science, in terms of how sporting events take place. Of course, there is no question of restrictions - whether we need or not - but of how much we limit. And that's how... We can, I think, all agree here... And this issue, too, I think the Saeima will support unanimously. What's... I... Thank you very much to the entire government. After the previous debate, a lot of what has been said here by the Saeima has been taken into account and many questions have been addressed, so I will address today the issue of the return of the Latvian population to Latvia. I'm sorry, colleagues. I think you all know there's a huge barrack. One is about these lines, which are on the borders. The second is about the state's calls to gather people in Istanbul, for example, about the state's calls to gather in some other places... currently by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Colleagues, there is a communication error to a very high degree, because I really got a lot of accusations about the fact that the country calls and, after people come there, tells them that no one is waiting for them there. And the foreign service gives four different signals about what to do and what not to do: to buy tickets or not to buy tickets, to travel through another country or not to travel through another country. Currently, with regard to Latvians living abroad (who want to return, the Minister says there are about four thousand inhabitants), there is a need for some specific mechanism. Now there's a huge barrack... by the Ministry of Transport, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If you talk to these people... I recommend to every Member who works with that question... Mr. Cole and others, the new Unity, now contact those people who are in that situation! At the moment, this is not the situation at all... unambiguous. I just did it for the last two days, as a communicator, to the Foreign Minister. This is not the normal situation. And there are those people there - very many! - who simply do not have information, clear, understandable information to do. The name is: “Come!” When they arrive, they are told specifically: “I'm sorry, we're here for you... No one knows anything about you. Why did you even come here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ And it communicates both airlines and these consular services... give them various opinions. There must be clear signals at the moment. Those tickets people pay for... pay thousands of euros to come from a country at this point, to arrive at that point, and it is very sad that no one is waiting for them at that point. So this issue, I think, is already going on, but there is a lot more to do. There must be some clear mechanism for communicating with these citizens. For healthcare institutions. In particular, I would like to draw attention to rehabilitation institutions. Rehabilitational institutions for seniors, who indeed all are at risk... still accepts applications today, Monday can arrive... And I think that's a question, too... look at what is happening in large hospitals. Planned operations are carried out, then - rehabilitation centres... Well, is it really a priority at this point, where... people should go... and must be said... I need to go... I think it is worth meditating on this. And in general, I really want to thank all the medical staff. At a time in Europe against... in general, the so-called green people turned against democracy, Latvia, like the whole of Europe, is in order for the whole defence sector, and the defence sector in Latvia and, I think, there are no issues in the whole of Europe right now. It's arranged. Today, Latvia is being directed against and the green virus is being directed against the whole world. That is why I would call for healthcare to be organised in this situation, because it is our opportunity and also the biggest challenge at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U17	Thank you. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U18	Hello! First of all, I would like to thank all the restaurants working, especially the foreign and health sectors, but at the same time partly agree with what has just been said. It is clear that the draft order, or amendments to the previous order, does not actually provide answers to a number of questions specifically in the field of education. The first is the question of pre-school institutions. If all educational establishments are closed once, these institutions are obviously also closed. Aware of the need to leave on-calling groups, it is recommended that the professions to which these on-calling groups should be provided be named... At the same time, I call for consideration to be given to the possibility that the remuneration of kindergarten teachers... could consider a remuneration supplement for work in intensive and to some extent exceptional circumstances. Secondly. This order also does not give a real answer with amendments - what is happening with inclusive education today, working digitally and remotely. So it doesn't give an answer either in terms of terminology - what's happening with special education programmes... both with those who are now at home from special education institutions and with those children who learn... acquires general education in special education programmes. I understand that individual guidelines can be drawn up and I hope to expect them, but there must be a clear text of the order in line with the terminology of the Education Law, so that everyone understands what it applies to. Thirdly. As the order currently provides for special, separate rights for decision-making for each minister individually, I call for consideration of further amendments... because the order is likely to be amended and supplemented in line with developments or developments (we hope also on better news)... And yet... If an extension of the school year can only be decided after one week, see how and what happens at a distance... and, don't give God if it's decided after the next week's results, when maybe the twelve have not yet begun to learn... I advise you to consider how long this evaluation period should be. But on the other hand, I also ask the Cabinet of Ministers to accept (and probably the Prime Minister is doing so) appropriate - appropriate! - side decisions that already apply to the ministers responsible... the fact that the Ministry of Education and Science is required to submit a specific monitoring plan or a way of establishing that distance learning or training does not take place as intended. And the fourth. Mr Riekstin, your proposal is remarkable. Mr. Riekstin! I can't talk to the hall, but I'm answering you right now. The field of sport is your responsibility. You have a whole sub- commission that can decide on this. The Minister for Education and Science is responsible for sport. Please include additional norms in the order of the Cabinet of Ministers so that it can be prevented... because it is really essential: how really things are going on in this area, too. At the conference of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, we focused quite little on sport. Not much. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “It’s the municipalities!” ) But I hope that the Ministry of Education and Science gradually... Well, if they had a calendar plan, then we'd see it, but there's no one right now. We can see how the guidelines are also being developed for youth, and the guidelines for the sport sector are also being developed - how to work and how to not work. And it is probably also worth considering the decision that has now been made in a number of cities, including the big cities, - to close some sports places, where children can do. Does that mean that the children will do it in the yard, in their own... in free or otherwise... Is that so? I call, however, for assistance from the Ministry of Education and Science to develop these guidelines also in the field of sport. And the sports people say this too... No, they are not available to the public at the moment. If you are gradually building up, I will be happy. And in addition... using the opportunity, outside the order of the Cabinet of Ministers... I very much hope that the Ministry of Education and Science will also set up a tutorial or such a behavioural algorithm, and will also address students how to carry out self-learning, how to learn themselves, especially senior class students. And I also call for the use of youth organisations that can address young people in different ways in a form that is acceptable to them - not only about learning, but also about the attitude... the responsibility of young people during the spread of the virus. We know that young people are to some extent... Different treatment depending on age. Thank you, and I hope you appreciate... that you will also take into account the views of professionals, regardless of who is speaking and who is representing, because at this point you should do much more than look at who is representing. Thank you. And good luck! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U19	Thank you. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U20	Dear President, Dear Members, honourable Members, First of all, I would also like to thank all the services involved for their truly exceptional operation and... working with the best conscience and with the best goals. Here is a few remarks to what Mr Valaiņš said about our citizens who are outside Latvia and are trying to find ways to return in these last days. However, I cannot agree with what has been said: there is no coordination between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Transport. I think it's being done 24 hours a day - looking for ways that are now, when this problem has grown up in Europe and there are restrictions on movement... are being tried to find ways of our citizens... at least to enable them to return. It is clear that, in these circumstances, a country will not be able to apply an individual policy approach, because time is not an ally. What we are facing in the last days is not only for our citizens outside Latvia, but also for the people of Latvia there is a fragmentation of information. There is a great deal of activity, and today we are also deciding on additional measures to tackle the crisis. And there's a range of things for the public sector, for the private sector, for business support in the long term... And what I see is difficult to keep track of where the measures are being put in place. Whether they come from Altum support measures, or from commercial banks, individual individuals... And what creates this uncertainty is that it is difficult to find this information in one place. And here I would like to say that it is time to start the planned Strategic Communication Coordination Department at the State Chancellery on a full-time basis. I think the time has come to activate right now... and to have a comprehensive communication with the public, not as it is now, when citizens must look at the Ministry of Economics' website, the Ministry of Health's website, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website... This causes confusion and cannot focus on their main objective. Consequently, I call on the government to allocate the necessary funds for the revitalisation of this department, which, I understand, is becoming gradually at the National Chancellery now, already today, in order to have a strategic communication at a horizontal level. Because what do we see? The public, most of them, are following social networks. And in social networks (let's say on Twitter), it's not static, it's always updated, it's going to be updated with others... And it's hard for people to keep track of all this. Sometimes it is that they miss out on the information that has been published, and then, of course, the public administration can always say: “Well, see, we published it, but now, sorry, yes, you did not have the opportunity to find it.” I think it is time to create a separate platform. I think we have enough powerful IT specialists to connect and help the public administration. Coordination of strategic communication is urgently needed for all citizens of the country, including business... we would be on a single page and would be able to deal together with the crisis that we are currently facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U21	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U22	Dear President, Honourable Members! Paragraph 4.19 of this Order is simply ridiculous, that persons who complete an application for repatriation journeys observe special measures and, with their signature, certify that they will ensure self-insulation. Tens of people who have returned from infected areas and lied, have sent their children to schools. And that's... We already have examples of infection for such people. And we write that a man will sign a paper and there will be no consequences! In Israel, if you violate isolation rules, it is instantly seven years... tracking takes place by telephone to these people. I think for the next week... apparently hasty Ministry of the Interior and Cabinet of Ministers must ensure how these people, who violate these allegedly signed promises, are isolated from society - or special hotels are set up, which can be paid by the state, where they sit... or the need to propose any criminal liability. I think that these measures are not enough. Something has, of course, been done. On the number of infected. Experience shows that everywhere the number of patients has been 10-20 times higher than the number of cases detected at that time. So if we say we have 111 or how much, we can count on a thousand or two thousand infected in Latvia. This situation is not acceptable. I think the next amendments... The Cabinet of Ministers... must be that any measures are closed - any measures! Not where 50 or five people are, but any sport, culture, entertainment... meeting... The exception would be operational measures implemented by the police, sanitary services, municipal managers, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Saeima. And it's obviously... the faster it will be, the better - the less the consequences we will have. Therefore, I call on the Cabinet of Ministers to review all this again. And the most important thing is to take some serious things... make serious decisions about people who have already violated... and there are dozens who have not only violated, but whose fault is that people are already infected. And there's no punishment. That's what we smile at and say: it's nothing serious.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U23	Thank you. Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U24	Dear colleagues, I would just like to correct briefly what our colleague, Sandis Riekstins, said. The truth is not what you said about the Olympic Centre “Ventspils”, because the Olympic Centre “Ventspils” has been closed for public visits since Saturday evening at 21.00, i.e. since 14 March. So... Well, that's just not the correct information. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “I will show the video!” ) Well, I'm not sure whether on Twitter... I know we can't talk to the grass... I have just spoken to the Director of the Olympic Centre Ventspils. So I call you to believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U25	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U26	Good morning, colleagues! First of all, I would like to contact Mr. Znotiņš with a request. I will ask several thousand parents to exempt Class 1-3 students from distance training. Yesterday, as a sixth grade student's mom, I also received an instruction on how to provide my son's distance learning - that he must be at the computer or smart device throughout the hours of the list, i.e. from 8.30 to 16.00, to respond to each teacher's task, to be answered. But if we're talking about primary school, you could imagine how to force children between 7 and 9 years of age to stay at the computer from 8.30 a.m. to at least 1 p.m.? And even parents receive such things, you can say, the danger that if it does not happen within two days, they will be contacted by a social educator. Hence, God’s Word says: “This is what Jehovah has done. ” — Dep. R. Dzintars: “What is it about school?” )... It's happening everywhere. Could, please, be aware (Interior call.) ... Is that so? I repeat: that is it! And so there is a request to exempt Class 1-3 students from distance training. It is physically impossible, especially if the parent is alone and works until late night. Second. Thank you for the fact that this draft law, on which we will be voting immediately, contains a norm that overtime payments could be extended to social workers of the local government police and local government during an emergency, but the request to the government - to help local authorities to purchase, as soon as possible, limited goods, such as disinfectants, protective masks and disposable gloves on the internal market. These goods just don't exist, and every municipality currently fights absolutely... in absolute isolation. I know that last night VARAM was aware of this lack of goods, but there is no information about when and in what amount the municipalities will receive these goods. This applies in particular to social workers who will visit older people at home within the framework of social care. And the last one. Request to the government, crisis center - to involve as large business players as Linstow Center Management, who own all supermarkets. Because it is happening that the owners of the Linstow Center Management avoid negotiations with the tenants. The tenants are threatened with extremely high penalties under the treaties for this... if they close their shops. And so you can't... We can't let tenants, those little shops... be socially responsible and perhaps even close down their shops. Request to big capital holders also to be socially responsible, and a request to the government to involve these big... the owners of supermarkets will negotiate, as it is very important to support the medium and small business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U27	Thank you. Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U28	Hello, fellow Members! First of all, thank the government once again for its ongoing action and its limitations in responding to the situation. But there are some proposals, proposals that would be indispensable and on which we (at least for part) will certainly prepare our proposals in the draft law before us today. One. For support to economic operators. Yes, I agree with the theme that came out of the podium here, that we don't need to identify the industries... There are sectors where some companies work even more at present, but some are affected by the crisis and are loss-making. There must be clear criteria set by the Cabinet to calibrate support at company level. For example, a rapid fall in turnover could be one of the criteria, without sectoral constraints. Second. The rules of the game on state aid must already be clear today. There must also be quite precise legitimate expectations for companies that are already operating... even before the law enters into force... e.g. State aid for the payment of deferred remuneration. Will this also apply to those workers who have been on unpaid leave today, even before the law enters into force? The precise explanation must be that companies, as well as employees, can count on it. The next is a large block, which is not at all covered by this order or by the draft law that is on the agenda for us today - a state-owned company and public support for capital companies. There are sectors (e.g. airports) for which State aid that is admissible is precisely zero, but which will not survive without State aid. It will not be possible to carry out its major projects, nor will it be possible to carry out daily work. Thus, already today, if the government has not done so, it is necessary to contact the European Commission on a case-by-case basis, on a case-by-case basis, or on a case-by-case basis, or on all state-owned companies in general; it is necessary to agree on new state aid conditions that would allow the State to intervene in these critical cases. And finally, on trips. Mr Kola mentioned that everything in the country is fine in this area. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Col: “What?” ) No, no, no, no! The Foreign Minister is working hard. He really is also personally involved in dealing with various issues, but from the information that is currently public, people are confused and rather unable to make decisions about how to get home accurately. One specific case. On the website of the Ministry of Transport there was information that there would be flights to Latvia from Istanbul - two flights - but not mentioned, it was not explained exactly that these flights were not intended for open ticket reservations, but that they were intended to provide commercial tourism services. And there was no solution yet to bring other compatriots who tried to gather in Istanbul to Latvia. This communication must be precise, clear and coordinated. It cannot be that people calling consular services are given conflicting or misleading information, for example calling airlines or even more! - becomes angry that a person has called and tried to understand how to get home. The transportation of our compatriots to Latvia remains an enormous problem, and Latvia needs to provide maximum support for its part - informative and also practical - providing the necessary flights. For the time being, this is all to this order, but for our part, we will also make proposals for the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U29	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U30	Hello, honourable Saeima! The measures included in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations aim at limiting the spread of the virus. Obviously this is only part of the necessary measures. The target must be wider, in my view. The aim is to end the epidemic, at least to stop it. In order to stop the epidemic, the patient must be identified, isolated and treated. Insulation, including self - isolation, has become a priority among these tasks. Emergency measures have decreased to self-insulation. The meaning of this is to sit sick or healthy at home until the Covid-19 vaccine is synthesized. The third emergency task, namely the identification of patients, remains a secondary or even lower priority. Egils Gulbja laboratory accepts a person from the street, speaking in everyday language, for 80 euros, it is very expensive. This is the absolute value of the liabilities sensitive to the spread risk on bonds and loans that are qualifying In fact, virus identification for fellow citizens is not available. Meanwhile, free testing would allow you to test yourself and, if the virus has not been found, continue to work actively rather than wait at home when the epidemic is over. The identification of virus carriers is not reflected in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. It decides healthy, healthy people for dive and even more so. — Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) brings the economic crisis closer and does not contribute to overcoming the epidemic. I believe that this is a very important, fatal shortcoming in the system of all measures, and it must be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U31	Thank you. Name of Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U32	Hello, honorable Bureau! Colleagues! Mrs Regina Lochmeles-Lunova, you mentioned one concrete example, but... In my opinion, especially because the Saeima Members... One important task for every parent is to get acquainted with the guidelines on the distance learning process published yesterday by the Ministry of Education and Science, and I really want to praise the Ministry of Education and Science, although there are things that can still be improved and done better. I think it is very clear about the emphasis on... as little as possible... digital technologies at the latest age stage. There is a emphasis on maximum time limits for the execution of works. We can't avoid that every school, every school, every school's administration will somehow interpret what... What they understand, but we have ourselves as parents... We also need to read what the Ministry says (and there are really good things... And I think it's very workable... Every working parent also), and then we can talk to the school. Because the Ministry gives it the main, general line, but can't stand for the director of each school - as he will interpret that issue. And, of course, it is unacceptable that a school has interpreted it so that students in classes 1 to 6 now have to sit on a computer. This is not the case. Read simply, please, guidelines, talk to the school management, and this will certainly be done.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U33	Thank you. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U34	Yeah, thank you. Mrs Muižniece has already said, most of all, what I wanted to say in her reply to Mrs Lochmele-Lunova. The guidelines were published yesterday. Yesterday the Minister of Education and Science organized three different videoconferences. One was for municipal managers and school directors. First of all, all municipal leaders and directors were invited to answer all the questions. The second video conference was organized separately for teachers (Dep. E. Papule’s intermediate call sign.) , each teacher was invited to join, and the Minister of Education and Science responded to all the questions. The third was for parents to know how to get involved, how to monitor this process and so on. More than 10,000 people had joined these conferences. And there is an opportunity to continue asking these questions to the Ministry of Education and Science, but you should start reading the guidelines. If you get this message that Classes 1 to 3 should be from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.... 1 to 3. class students are not so long at all, the maximum is four hours of study... or five ( Dep. I. Indricsone: “Sixth class was it!” )... then you can say with certainty which particular school is the one that makes such an absurd requirement, and we can communicate with them and try to explain them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U35	Thank you. The name to the Member Digim Schmit for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U36	I will just add to what I said earlier on the lists of sectors affected. If we have a great need for a government to establish a list, then one could be determined, but another. In particular, sectors for which no aid would definitely be granted. As the first sector in that list I would put gambling on the list (Interior: “It’s it!” ), because they're right now... One thing shuts them down. All right, don't cry if you don't have enough nausea, but they're gonna come and prove they're going down because of the tourists they're leaving, and they're going to sort it out like that right away. So that's what it's supposed to start with. And listen to me again! The Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LTRK) has developed, in my opinion, very good criteria for looking at the economy in providing support. Nothing smarter, I'm sorry, we're not gonna figure out. Moreover, they also take responsibility for developing these criteria on their own. And if we accept them, they take on joint responsibility. That, in my opinion, is welcome. Just as we are right today to listen to doctors in the context of epidemiology, just as in the economy, it is right to listen to those who understand something in the economy. In particular, the economy is more or less concerned by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U37	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Do Members object to the unification of the time of the debate? No objection, time merged.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U38	Hello, colleagues! A week has passed since the previous sitting, and yesterday the government presented to the public an action plan for overcoming the effects of the Covid-19 crisis. Named works sound good, but as we know, everything will be determined by performance. And here I would ask you all to be actively involved before the next sitting that will take place today. I would like to ask you to follow up on how it will be determined which sector to help first, which sectors are most affected by the crisis at all... And does it matter at all... I call on you to follow how many workers are employed in all sectors affected and affected by this crisis. In particular, it is important for the criteria on which the decision on the aid and the amount of the aid will be based. I spoke personally to the Bank of Latvia at the beginning of the week, and in fact I had a question that would be the sectors that should be supported first and most affected. I actually got an answer to this: yes, my ideas are good too, and the Bank of Latvia thinks similarly, but... “We, the Bank of Latvia, will do what the legislator tells us.” And, here I have a question for all of us, Members of the Saeima - are we ready to delegate today and ask for the Bank of Latvia, because they have the best knowledge of the economic situation in the country, with their competence to play an active part in this process? And if this is already happening, I would be happy to hear it as a public statement from the coalition. Are we prepared to discuss these sectors here in the Saeima, and are we prepared to publicly demonstrate which sectors are most important for us individually, for every Member here in the Saeima? Is the position ready to consider all the proposals made by the opposition? In this context, I would like to say that this is probably not a problem if the position takes the opposition proposals and even calls them own. I think that the opposition will not have any jealousy for this. Go on. I am puzzled by the fact that decisions on the granting of funding and its amount will be taken by the State Revenue Service, a structure which by nature is repressive not only in Latvia, but also elsewhere. Yes, we should not help those businesses that are long-term taxpayers. The State Revenue Service should have a consultative role, but not a final name. I am truly engaged in implementing good decisions in practice. I very much do not want to allow financial assistance to be diverted to my own. It must be received by all those who really need it right now. Are we all ready to start discussing the sector by industry, individually, by companies, here from the platform, to invite industry professionals? Whether there are proposals from members of the position or opposition... And I will really not be offended if, for example, my repeatedly publicly expressed offer to use this favorable moment to cancel the OIC, the ruling coalition would announce its idea and take a decision about it and implement it. By the way, can anyone, to me openly, reasoned from the platform where I am currently standing, explain why we cannot lift it now? This is not only a rhetorical issue, but a direct and unambiguous question. Aid means not only allocating funds, but reducing costs for society as a whole. Next. We see that, thank God, the development of Covid-19 in Latvia is not dramatic, and I very much hope for a successful ending of the epidemic in a transparent future. They are cautious hopes, but hope, as we know, dies last. But a few days ago, 20 thousand of our citizens returned to Latvia, for whom it would be critical to observe quarantine. And so this will be my next request to you, colleagues: please address your constituents, use your authority, call them to be reasonable. Please, let us withstand compulsory quarantine weeks, let us refrain from socialisation! I would also like to ask you to regularly call not only the arrivals but the general public: please, let us respect the restrictions imposed and listen to the professionals, the Infectologists, that the results of the quarantine depend on the public's awareness! Our success story is not the severity of restrictions, but the common sense of society, and that is what leaders must call on society as a whole - to be conscious. I believe that the idea has power. I believe that we will not allow the virus to spread to large masses. We will be able to stop it, to limit it until it vanishes completely. I call on you to be aware that we will have to do something about our economy. The virus is a good reason to justify the mistakes and failures that have taken place so far, but I sincerely call for you not to play with this and not write it down at the cost of the virus. Please don't try to find excuses, but let's start thinking! Let us start thinking about what will happen in three or four months! Let us also begin to change for good and work together, not to continue to cooperate! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U39	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U40	Dear colleagues, There are three things. First. I would like to congratulate the government on its actions. It is really decisive this time and to a sufficient extent. I am also pleased that a number of the opposition proposals tabled earlier this week have been taken into account and incorporated. Thank you very much for that. Second point: There was quite a lot of talk here about whether we need to identify the sectors or not to identify the sectors... Here, colleagues, there's a rather dangerous mess. I think it's best to understand what's happening... will be that this crisis... It will take place in three waves. The first wave has already entered. We are talking about those companies that have actually lost, have already lost virtually all of their customers. The most striking examples are air transport, passenger transport, tourism, catering and so on. These companies were in need of aid yesterday and they should be decided on without delay. This is the first wave, and here is what the government offers, mostly about 95-99 percent is all right. But then, my colleagues, there's going to be a second wave. That is what business organisations are talking about so much and so on. In particular, it will have a global and country-wide impact on absolutely all businesses, either, or almost all. What is happening now, all of its debates - there are sectors or no sectors - are, I would say, business organisations' concerns about the fact that when dealing with the first wave, the government forgets that there will be a second wave. In order to tackle the second wave, it will also be necessary to have different instruments in place, which I think it is extremely important for the government to start deciding, in principle to work on the next day - when these first wave measures are adopted. But it will also be very wrong, colleagues, to tackle the problems of the second wave without solving the problems of the first wave. And then, colleagues, there will be a third wave. How great it will be will depend on what we do or will not do with the first or the second wave. One example, colleagues. It is absolutely clear that municipal revenue will be lower, because there will be redundancies, there will be redundancies in the tourism sector, in other sectors. Those who go to the dead - they will not be paid personal income tax, which means that local government revenues will also be lower. Since municipalities will also certainly have a major role to play in the fight against this crisis, this will mean that we will have to decide on this, including by reducing people's income if we are talking about those ceilings - EUR 700. It will also reduce overall demand, and it will also lead to a third wave, a recession. I would, therefore, call here for consideration to be given to raising this threshold. Next, colleagues, third point. I have repeatedly said that there is too much confidence in people's consciousness here. As I said before... several times, it is enough with some unconscious people to absorb the virus at a new rate. While this case, the number of these infected is not several thousand, it is possible to do much more to ensure this isolation. If we do not provide these people with food supplies, for example, how can we expect them - whether they or any of their family - not to go to the shop, not to travel by public transport, and so on? If we ask these people to stay home for 14 days when we get back from abroad... If we do not provide them with payment of the sick leave for these 14 days and do not do so by the employer, how many do you think they will choose not to pay within two weeks? We have to think about all these things, we have to... It must not be simply blind to trust that absolutely everyone will be conscious, colleagues. And the potential of people who will now be made redundant in the same passenger transport, tourism can be exploited. These people can be used to involve them in public work so that they can help to secure this quarantine, for example, in the supply of food and so on. I call on you, however, to think carefully about this, my fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U41	Thank you. Name of Minister for the Interior Sandis Girgens.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U42	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Thank you for giving me the opportunity to address you today. In fact, yesterday the government adopted amendments to the Cabinet Order of 12 March 2020 “On Promulgation of the Emergency”. That is why I would also call for these amendments to be approved. Maybe the most important thing. Taking stock of European practices and looking at all the restrictions imposed by the Member States of the European Union, however, I believe that Latvia and the government have taken proportionate and reasonable decisions to control the Covid-19 epidemic. Because we also see many other countries that have paralyzed their economies in practice, having limited their external borders, just as we do. Many of our decisions that are subject to discussion or perhaps moments of crisis... It should be borne in mind that much does not depend on us. Because we are trying to get our citizens home, at the same time, we must keep in constant contact and various diplomatic routes with foreign allies in order to create these transit corridors and make citizens and other citizens get to this place in a more timely manner... home. Most importantly, in this emergency situation, the government has set up a Crisis Coordination Group on Covid-19 and is operationally coordinating actions, preventive measures, preparedness and response measures at expert level. Here I would call on any Member to make use of the opportunity to submit practical proposals to this crisis management coordination group, where experts discuss each of the proposals and incorporate these proposals... the potential inclusion of them in a government order. By its very nature, the government has developed a mechanism of this kind to take decisions on issues already discussed at expert level, which is very important. It's important... I would like to point out that we have taken rather rapid measures, there are closed external borders. As you know very well, then the internal boundaries... In essence, controls have also been imposed on Lithuania and Estonia, so in some cases we do not impose and do not carry out additional actions that are not necessary. The State Police is working in an emergency mode, the State Border Guard also carries out a questionnaire, collects data to control those persons who have entered the Republic of Latvia. I will also remind you that Latvia's legislation on non-compliance with emergency restrictions and non-respect of epidemiological requirements entails both administrative and criminal liability. I fully agree with those Members who have pointed out the need for strategic communication. Even yesterday, literally, speaking to municipalities, using the platform provided by the Latvian Municipal Union, I accurately informed about the hierarchical structure in which institutions should cooperate - not chaotic, but practical. For citizens too - where to follow those practical instructions. One of the practical guidelines is, of course, to follow the information on the roof. One of these roof information is information available on the website of the Cabinet of Ministers. There's exactly published this emergency order, there's... I'm... existing government orders, including information phones, how to communicate in order to clarify questions. On the website of the Cabinet of Ministers is provided with maximum... answers to certain questions, key questions. For all the necessary... additional questions that would be necessary can be called either to the State Police by phone 110, which I call on anyone - both Members and any Latvian citizen - to notify those who do not comply with isolation and quarantine rules. For getting home, I also invite you to use the phone number that is available to the State Border Guard and also contact the Consular Service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... And the tools provided by these institutions. It must also be taken into account, of course, that the institutions are working to maximise the resources that are currently available to them. Again, honourable Members, I would like to point out that it is important for us to provide medical practitioners, support staff, home affairs officials with protective means - as soon as possible. The Government has approved the Ministry of Health for the purchase of emergency defence assets, and actual resources have been found for their supply as well. We are constantly coordinating with local manufacturers for the production of medical masks... Thank you also to those municipalities that are already participating and coordinating with the particular... both with the crisis management coordination group and with the Ministry of the Interior to provide doctors and services with the necessary medical masks. I can tell you... One of the positive examples, just one of the... I will not name all Latvian municipalities. We cooperate very closely with Liepaja Municipality. Liepaja Municipality officials take this problem very responsibly, coordinate with local entrepreneurs, already deliver masks to the employees of the home sector. So, in general, the lack of medical goods, masks is not just a problem for Latvia, it is a problem for the whole world. We are trying to differentiate the delivery channels - both from abroad and at the most, of course, to involve local producers and to start both the capacities that are and the capacities needed to produce all the things that are needed for us right here in Latvia. My personal position as Minister of the Interior is very simple. I believe that we must try and do everything possible to bring about this crisis... In order to limit Covid-19's spread we achieve with our local resources, so that our taxpayers' money does not go abroad. If necessary, we strengthen capacity and try to help also local entrepreneurs to reorient and produce what is needed. Of course, if we try... also try out extraordinarily methods. One example - order contains... The order of the Government allows the Minister of the Interior to decide on the liquid (with an alcohol content of more than 70 per cent) which has been transferred to the State Security Agency for the destruction of alcohol and which, in accordance with the judgment in force, has been the subject of a final decision in criminal proceedings or an administrative infringement case and which does not provide for the return or reimbursement of the value of the liquid containing the alcohol in question... In fact, it allows me to submit, as Minister for the Interior, in a certain order... possibilities for the use of this liquid for disinfection. We have already passed samples to the relevant experts before the government order and, as far as I have information, it has been confirmed that the percentage of ethyl alcohol is above 90 percent, which is appropriate for the use of disinfectants. We've found a way to pack them, put them in. Let us arrange logistics and provide services in the near future, as well as hospitals, and, if we remain, the national and local authorities that call for this. Dear colleagues, In the past, many of the Members who came here at the tribunal and talked about the government's support for the necessary measures - these proposals are necessary and necessary. Indeed, I am calling for unity right now, to try not to criticise each other, to try to offer the best solutions and, as I also said, perhaps those practical things that relate precisely to the prevention of the epidemic, to security measures, to be submitted to an operational crisis management group. In this way, we would also facilitate the swifter inclusion and entry into the order of your - no matter what - positions or opposition. Finally. Closing your speech... In view of the world's practice, where citizens and the government support their medical and security services and law enforcement authorities, and any person involved in reducing the epidemic, I would call on us now not only to stand up for a short time, but also to honour and support, as I said, the medical and home affairs workers and all other workers, volunteers who, at the risk of their health and those of their family members, carry out their duties and service on the first lines of the Covid-19 epidemic front, without whom we could not continue our work and day-to-day. Colleagues, if you can join my initiative, I would be grateful. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U43	I thank Minister Sandis Ģürgen for his participation in our debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U44	Welcome to my dear colleagues. Yes, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to all those involved, those in the front line, for their hard work and... It has come to the conclusion that the Ministry of Transport is also one of those involved in dealing with various issues related to the restrictions on travel and transfer... mobility opportunities from and to Latvia. Here you have to admit... We must also express our gratitude for the close cooperation that we have with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health and other stakeholders. Our work is organized 24/7, that is, 20. a.m., 7 days a week. All requests and permissions about that... about possibilities to get to Latvia. That's all... representatives of other countries, including at ministerial level, are regularly also contacted. The situation changes every hour. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) Let us say that these situations are difficult because the countries... European countries are regularly changing their decisions, taking them more drasticly with regard to disease... to control the virus... or, when changing the situation, it is a little easier to have the opportunity to return to Latvia. At the same time, we have not forgotten that freight must flow in Europe... and not to stop the economy either. And be aware of the consistency that... what will be the result of such restrictions. We also meet with all our participating capital companies in the transport sector. We know what possible problems they are facing, and we are taking the proactive steps that have been set out... The results of these actions will be visible in the near future. Let us continue in the same spirit, and I think that these will not be the only additions to the orders and will not be the only decisions. They're going to follow. Work will have to continue. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Schmidt: “It has now come!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U45	I closed the debate. Thank you. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U46	Thank you, colleagues, for the debate. Nothing can be added on behalf of the Commission. I call on you to support the Commission's draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U47	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 17 March 2020 No. 106 ‘Amendment to the Cabinet Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 “Advertising the Emergency” and Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 19 March 2020 No. 115 ‘Amendments to the Cabinet Order of 12 March 2020 No. 103 “Advertising the Emergency””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Thank you, colleagues. The agenda has been examined. Please register the Members! Name for the statement to Member Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U48	Dear members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and honourable members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax)! Budgetary and financial (tax) commission meeting in 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U49	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U50	The meeting of the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs will be broadcast online in five minutes' time in the Chamber of the European Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U51	The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U52	Hello, colleagues! We convene the meeting of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy at 12.40 in the room of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U53	The name of the Member, Maria Golubeva, to read the results.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U54	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Dagmara Beitnere–Le Galla... is, Jānis Dombrava, Jānis Dūklavs, Ilmārs Dūritis, Inese Ikstena, Artuss Kaimiņš, Andris Kazinovskis, Ivans Klementjevs, Ināra Mūrniece, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Linda Ozola, Inguna Rībena, Dace Rūksāne–Ščipčinska, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova and Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-03-20-PT13-2055-U55	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
