ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U1	Dear colleagues, The second extraordinary meeting started on 24 September 2020. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U2	Dear colleagues, The draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” provides two supplements. First. To reduce the risk of transmission of infection and to monitor the individuals concerned, a system of personal monitoring information will be used in the future. The amount of information to be included in this system, the procedure for inclusion and storage, the time limits and the right of access shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the second. Health checks of officials of the Ministry of Interior and Prison Administration, who were suspended during the declared emergency situation, shall be carried out no later than 31 March 2021. The draft law is supported by the Commission. The Commission is asking for urgency to be established for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U3	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U4	The Commission calls for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U6	The deadline for examining the proposals is 28 September this year. Second reading: 1 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U7	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 28 September this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 1 October this year. Requests received by Members. Members Viktors Valainis, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Armands Krauze, Māris Kučinskis, Gundars Dauge, Jūlija Stepanenko, Raimonds Bergmanis, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Vucāns and Uldis Augulis have submitted a request to the Minister of Transport to Tāliaitis “On the responsibility of the Minister of Transport for the provision of public transport services in accordance with national interests”. Name for motivation to Member Viktor Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U8	Hello, colleagues! What happens in the public transport sector as a whole in Latvia, what sector has been and what future is marked, also requires political responsibility and political explanation. There is now a situation where everyone is well-known that public transport purchases were won by three very well-known businesses in society (already published in the media) and the Minister had no objections to it. One has objected only because these three entrepreneurs have won. The second point, which is much more important, is to object at a time when a number of companies in the sector are concerned that an agreement has been banned there, to fear that all 16 lots have been won on the same basis and that procurement rules have been circumvented on the same basis. Moreover, the responsibility of the Minister in this case makes me think about how we can get into a situation where the Minister, instead of going into the matter, would go into the substance of the matter, the permissions for one's demands, why he disputes the results of this procurement. Overall, in the final of the 16 lot 8 The Procurement Supervision Bureau has prohibited the closure of the... procurement. It could have been in a number as well. I think that if the municipal company based in Cesis, which serves several municipalities, had made a slightly different claim, it would certainly have won. And there are others. But in this case, I ask you, also the Saeima (and the Saeima will have to assess this issue in the Commission for Questions) so that the Minister of Transport comes and shows what his vision of the future of public transport, sustainability and relevance to national interests is. Currently, half of these lots are still being contracted by nature with oligarchs. You, the oligarch fighters, are entering into agreements with those businessmen you are fighting against, as you are telling. In essence, this has happened, and yet it is a joke that someone is trying to challenge these results. The fact has happened. Half of those contracts have been cancelled. I call on the Saeima Commission to examine this request and to understand whether the Minister has a vision at all and whether he has understood the mistakes of the past when the so-called Sleser treaties were concluded. These are even worse than the Sleser treaties. Shlesser can go home to relax compared to what the UKP is doing at the moment. (Laughter) (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U9	Thank you. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. Honourable Members! The agenda for the sitting was then examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to read the results of the registration for Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U10	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Jānis Adamsons, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Jānis Dūklavs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Armands Krauze, Māris Kučinskis, Ralfs Nemiro, Ramona Petraviča, Dana Reizniece–Ozola, Arthur Rubiks and Atis Zakaistovs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-09-24-PT13-2115-U11	Thank you. So I closed my second extraordinary session on 24 September this year. Tell me, please, how much we need... a framework for the replacement of the agenda? Five minutes. So, colleagues, in five minutes' time, we will continue to look at the agenda of the first extraordinary sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “It will be enough today!” ) So we will resume the discussion of the agenda of the first extraordinary meeting at 14.40 a.m.
