ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the remote emergency sitting on 28 October 2020. Before we start to see the agenda for the sitting, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau decided on two improvements to the e-Saema platform on 26 October this year. In future, at remote sittings, we will only vote on the proposals submitted to legislative proposals, as well as on the drafts to be submitted to the commissions when a Member requests a special vote by pressing the "Requiring a vote" button. At the same time, I stress that there are no such items on the agenda of today's sitting, so we will be able to implement the request for a vote by pressing the "Requiring a vote" button at the next remote sitting. I also draw your attention to the fact that the voting time on the eEurope platform will be 20 seconds in the future. Colleagues! The draft law “On the State Budget 2021” and related draft laws and draft decisions are on the agenda of today’s meeting. I would like to remind you that when examining the draft annual state budget and the related draft laws at first reading, we will first call on the Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to report on draft laws submitted to the Saeima and then, on the basis of the request made by the Commission, to vote on the determination of urgency for each draft law. Before the vote on urgency, one Member may speak 'for', one Member may speak 'no'. After the vote on urgency, we will begin the debate and, as set out in the parliamentary roll of order, Members can debate the whole package of draft budgetary laws. Now I give the floor to Mārtiņš Bondar, Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we have a debate on draft decisions on the agenda. Draft decision on the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office” (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U2	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined both the draft law “On the State Budget 2021” and the accompanying package of draft laws and has decided that it is necessary to exclude three draft laws from the budget package. One of them is the draft law “Amendments to the State Audit Office Law”, so please support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U3	Members do not apply to speak 'for' or 'no'. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office” (No. the exclusion from the 2021 national budget package of draft laws”! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Therefore, the draft law ‘Amendments to the State Audit Office Law’ was excluded from the package of draft state budget laws of 2021. Draft decision “On the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices” (No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U4	I am sorry that I said in my introduction that there will be three draft laws to be excluded. Two draft laws should be excluded. The second is, therefore, the draft law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices. The budget and financial (tax) commission, when examining it, has requested that it be excluded from the package of draft state budget laws of 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices” (No. 829/Lp13) exclusion from the 2021 national budget package’! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Therefore, the draft law on the prohibition of unfair trading practices is excluded from the draft national budget for 2021. Draft decision “On Change of the Responsible Commission to Draft Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices” (No. 829/Lp13).’ Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U6	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, examining the draft law “Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Trade Practices”, not only saw it necessary to exclude this draft law from the budget package, but also that it would be necessary to replace the Commission - replace the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission with the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. That's why we're proposing this... The political leadership and executive powers of the executive power, let us say, are in agreement that both this and the previous draft law were excluded from the budget package and that this draft law requires a change of commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U7	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the change of the commission responsible for draft law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices (No. 829/Lp13)’. Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. We are on the agenda under the heading ‘Provisions of draft laws’. Annual examination of the state budget and related draft laws at first reading. Name to Mārtiņš Bondars, Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U8	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! We now have a package of draft laws that comes together with the draft Law on the State Budget 2021. At first reading, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, as well as... The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission asks for this draft law to be declared urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U9	Dear colleagues, As I have already informed you, we will first vote on the urgent recognition of each draft law. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 24, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Name of the committee president, Martins Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U10	Colleagues! We are also asking for recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the National Security Act" as an urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U12	Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission also asks for urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Czech Lottery Law”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U13	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the bill “Amendments to the Czech Lottery Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 26, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U14	Like previous draft laws, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission has also examined and asked for urgent recognition of draft laws “Amendments to the Education Law”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! - 61, against - 23, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U16	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Just like previous draft laws, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is also asking for urgent recognition of draft laws “Amendments to the Invalidity Act”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 26, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U18	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation” has also been examined by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and the Commission asks for it to be declared urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U19	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U20	The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission also asks for urgent recognition of draft laws on the Law on Information Society Services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U21	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Society Services”! Please, let's vote! No, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U22	Given that the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax’ concerns the State budget for 2021, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission also asks this draft law to be declared urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 58, no, 27, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U24	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budget and Financial Management” has also been recognised as urgent within the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, so please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U25	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 61, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U26	As you can see, the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" has also been declared urgent within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Request to support the identification of urgency for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 27, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U28	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Protection of Victims of the Impact of the Accidents of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant” is declared urgent within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U29	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law on social protection of the victims of the accident at Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the social protection of the victims of the accident at Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant” as urgent! Please, let's vote! On - 62, against - 25, refraining from - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U30	Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security”. It is recognised as a matter of urgency. Therefore, please support the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and declare this draft law urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 59, 27, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U32	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”. The budget and financial (tax) commission has been declared urgent. Request for your support for the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission decision and also for your recognition of this draft law as urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U34	Within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” has also been declared urgent, so please support the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U35	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U36	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendment to the State Funded Pensions Act” has been declared urgent within the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, therefore I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U37	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 26, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U38	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” has also been declared urgent within the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Request... your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U39	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 25, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U40	Colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” has been declared urgent within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Request for your support for the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission decision, recognising these amendments as urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U41	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U42	Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Rent of Accommodations” has been declared urgent by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Therefore, the request to support the decision of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, declaring this draft law urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U43	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Rent of Accommodations”” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 59, 27, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U44	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” was declared urgent by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U45	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance". Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U46	Colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”” has also been declared urgent within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U47	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 61, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U48	Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” has been declared urgent within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U49	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” as urgent! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 25, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U50	Colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” has been declared urgent within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Request to support the Commission's decision Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U51	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U52	Colleagues! The draft law ‘Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act’ has also been declared urgent by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U53	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act". Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U54	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information” has been declared urgent within the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, therefore, you are asked to support the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U55	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U56	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act” was declared urgent by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Request for your support to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U57	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax! Please, let's vote! For - 59, against - 28, refrains - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U58	Colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”” was declared urgent within the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U59	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 58, no, 27, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U60	Colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” has also been declared urgent within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Request to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U61	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 59, 27, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U62	The draft law ‘Amendments to the vehicle operating tax and company light vehicle tax’ was declared urgent within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Request for your support for this decision by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U63	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to vehicle operation tax and company tax on light-duty vehicles”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 60, it's 27, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U64	Colleagues! The draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework is also in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. So it's about... The draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023 has been declared urgent. Request to you to support this urgency as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U65	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent adoption of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U66	Finally, on these various urgencys, the request to support the recognition of the draft law on the state budget 2021 as an urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U67	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “On State Budget 2021” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, 59, 27, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent. Dear colleagues, Therefore, the draft law ‘On the State Budget 2021’ and the related draft laws have been declared urgent. So let's start the debate, but before that, on behalf of the Commission, Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U68	Colleagues! As I have already mentioned, both the draft law “On the State Budget 2021” and the package of draft laws have been discussed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The government has been working on this since the beginning of the year. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has seen this bill for less than two weeks. As I have said, the budget is and remains the government's vision of how to live next year. But the main things I would like to mention are what both the head of government and the finance minister mentioned at our meetings, that in fact this is the budget for the pandemic time, because both the event in 2020 and the... The budget for 2021, however, is affected by the pandemic that is breaking up today, yes, and I am not afraid to use this word - it is breaking in the world. Therefore, colleagues, well, the three main tasks mentioned by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are linked, firstly, to justice, because to some extent this year, we have seen a situation where, yes, those who have probably had less tax payments so far than we would have expected and wanted in society. The second relates to competitiveness. Thus, in the future, competitiveness of Latvia as a whole and competitiveness of companies is a very critical issue, so the government has addressed this issue. And finally the third. In essence, there are expectations. Waiting for doctors, waiting for teachers, waiting for university teachers to raise their salaries, as has been said so far. And it's also being done in this budget. Of course, I believe that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance will report on details and details much more widely, but I will say that: from such a macro-code, I have marked the area, what we have heard from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U69	Thank you, Mr Bondara. Dear colleagues, Once again, I would like to remind you that the debate is taking place on the whole package of draft laws, but one can also talk about individual draft laws. But the debate is on the whole package of draft laws. First of all, we will give the floor to those who have applied in writing for the debate. These are the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Welfare, the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Education and Science, and the Member Daniel Pavluts, who will express the opinion of the Group. Then, in the debate, Members who have applied electronically and whose applications you can also see in the e-Saami. So let's start the debate. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. ( Pause) Mr Kariņš, you have to submit to the debate electronically. Thank you for applying. Name to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U70	Thank you. Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Ministers, colleagues! We really live in extraordinary times. Not only in Latvia - all over Europe, we now have a pandemic, the Covid-19 pandemic. This is a new virus that mankind has not been exposed to so far, which means that there is no medicine or vaccine against this virus. The best that doctors anywhere in the world can do is to help... try to help patients with symptoms... Unfortunately, we see that people all over the world, including Latvia, also die from this virus. This means that the best thing can be done by any country, by any citizen, by any society, is to adopt measures to reduce the likelihood of the virus spreading. And the way we all do it is we're reducing our social, our direct contacts so that this virus can't move from one person to another. I would like to say thank you very much to all the Members of the Saeima, who, with their example and reasoning, also help society to avoid the spread of the disease and, in fact, also help save human lives. So thank you all for that. But this virus and this pandemic has caused economic difficulties in the world, also in Latvia, this year, a very tangible recession. In other years and other crises... When there has been such an economic crisis (so money income in the state budget is falling considerably), governments - not only in Latvia - have reduced their spending, thus trying to balance the income with expenditure. Thus, with falling income, we are also trying to reduce our expenses. Our government in the spring, when for the first time this pandemic came to Latvia... We made an active decision not to reduce budget expenditure with a conscious idea to stimulate the national economy, including through public spending, that is to say, budget expenditure, and to finance it with debt, or debt. This strategy seems to have justified us because, according to the latest figures, the budget deficit or deficit could be above 7.5 per cent this year, even up to 8 per cent. But at the same time, when we look at our economic data, we see that our total unemployment rate is compared with the pre-crisis period... is below one percentage point increase. We also see that, at the moment, our budget revenue... they fell significantly in the summer period - in the end of spring and in the summer - now again... month to month... if you compare... for a year... this revenue is again planned... or even above the planned level. It shows that... Thanks also to government budgetary stimulus tactics... the economy is actually showing very strong health signs right now, right now. We had a phase when unemployment grew to almost nine percent, now it's back to 7.5 percent. It is salt-higher unemployment than we would like in the country as a whole, but it is under one percent... above where we were. These are the circumstances in which we also create the next... and the budget framework for the next three years, knowing that there is this pandemic... Knowing that the government's economic stimulus can help our economies to endure in these difficult circumstances. We are planning a budget for 2021, with a deficit... and similar in 2022... and maybe also in 2023... But if this year, 2020, the budget deficit is about 7.5 percent, maybe even eight percent (we will understand it by the end of December), then... In 2021, we are planning a budget deficit of 3.9 per cent, so to reduce - already in 2022 - below three per cent, and in 2023... we're planning to get closer again... Well, very, very little deficit... This would probably not be a balanced budget, but it would be a very small deficit. Why are we doing this? We want to continue investing money in the economy with... in the form of incentives. In fact, it could be said that this budget, in 2021, is also a kind of... a budget to stimulate the economy. So as to overcome the difficulties that the economy is expected to face anyway, because, unfortunately, this pandemic... Although we have been reading news for six months that scientists have been working actively on the vaccine... and there are dozens of companies in the world who are active... and is in some stage of the test... However, think or hope that in the near future, in the coming months, there will be a vaccine that will stop... I think this could not happen either; however, it will take longer. And seeing that we now have such an outbreak in Latvia... yet we do not see any negative consequences for the economy as a whole, but we need to realise that these effects could also be, and it is therefore very important to adopt a budget that would, however, stimulate the economy. Now I come back to my own budget. We have a budget for expenditure or expenditure of EUR 10.76 billion, and income... We are currently planning to have a deficit of 9.58 billion, i.e. close to 1.2 billion, which is the same 3.9 per cent of GDP expected. So we're going to spend more than we're going to do. It will be at the expense of debt, but we expect our external debt to grow to only about 48 percent of GDP... what is still healthy... under what the Bank of Latvia says... what we could afford... would be slightly over 50 percent, 52 percent. So we stay well below it. This means that external markets, credit rating agencies - and so on - are expected to continue to favour Latvia's budgeting policy. As the Head of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission said at the meeting of the Fiscal Discipline Council, the government has retained the spirit of fiscal discipline in shaping this budget. And that is what we are aiming at: knowingly and plannedly stimulating the economy, but not opening up, as we say, the locks in the deficit, because everything we borrow today will have to be returned in the future. So it is very important that we borrow and invest so that our economy continues to grow. Hence, the deficit is planned as an incentive. In his introduction, Mr Bondaras said very much: three of the topics that exist in this budget and in the government's vision. These are: competitiveness, justice and social guarantees. For competitiveness. For years all who are entrepreneurs in standard mode... which pays fair all taxes... These people for years... I understand very well that... The tax burden on salaries in Latvia is high, and it makes us unable to compete with our neighbours Lithuania and Estonia, as well as with Scandinavia. This inability to compete means a partial loss of investment, a loss of opportunity, and that means... This is one of the factors that unfortunately keeps wages, average wages, lower in Latvia than they could be. So our aim is to change this situation. We want to make our economies more competitive, especially in such a pandemic situation. We believe that this is wise. And the Bank of Latvia also points out that this is the right direction. We start with next year's process, which we would like to continue in the next... for a further period of at least two years. There will be a general regime... reduction of the tax burden. We will start in 2021, as of 1 January, with a 1 per cent reduction in social tax. And that is a clear signal for our entrepreneurs. Those who invest, those who produce, those who could say constitute a lion's court of added value in our country... and lions' justice from all the taxes we collect and use to finance our health care systems to fund our educators to fund the police, the armed forces... it comes from these same entrepreneurs. We offer to come in front of them - to reduce social tax by one percentage point; this will make us able to compete with Lithuania already in 2021, not with Estonia. But if in 2022 we continued (and I suggest that we continue) this direction so that we could look at it though... or in combination... a further reduction in social tax... And I'm so hand-in-hand with a curve - an inequitable minimum increase in order to feel on low wages even more effect than it will be this year. And this year, too, we... We are already increasing - from 1 January - the threshold for calculating the exemption from the threshold from EUR 1200 to EUR 1800, which covers much more workers, allowing them to take this tax credit. And they would also have access to this calculation of an unlimited minimum, which would reduce their specific tax burden. So we are expanding the range of those who could legally pay fewer taxes, with one aim of making our economy, our businesses, more competitive. The second topic is justice. It is a very wide subject, we can understand the concept in a little different way, but every citizen of Latvia knows at least one area where he feels there is some injustice. We will try to raise this issue more actively as well... Also - through our budget and... Well, the budget offer. So we... it's at justice... or where... but from 1 January the minimum wage will be increased from 430 to 500 euros. So the national minimum wage will be EUR 500 from 1 January. This is also very visible consistency. We said a year ago, when we were drawing up the 2020 budget, that we would increase this minimum wage from 2021. There is now this promised increase in the minimum wage for your decision. We are also very well aware in the government of the wishes of the Saeima with our unamended and unamended law on the increase in medical salaries... And so this year's budget... I am sorry, next year, 2021, in the budget we are offering the full - in Latvian terms, the Sunday - to support or carry out the Saeima... your own, Members, law on the increase in medical salaries, which would therefore cover all the anticipated... all expected amounts (this may be three years). This requires an additional EUR 183 million in contribution to the state budget. That is what we offer you, fellow Members, for decision-making and adoption. We also believe that the clarity of the teachers should be clear now... Now it's still October... that they would have clarity throughout the year 2021, so also in September, on the expected increase in wages. They would be school educators and also university educators, and there is a budget of 40 and a half million euros - additional money. We also understand well the decision of the Constitutional Court on the guaranteed minimum income, the argument that the system must be arranged, but in fact we offer to go further, to increase this guaranteed minimum income, not only by introducing the system and accountability as it develops, but also by... effectively increase it from EUR 64 to EUR 109. In addition, there is money to increase minimum pensions, housing benefits. Overall, in this area, we are planning to spend almost EUR 96 million in addition to the national budget. So, in a situation where budget revenue is falling, in a pandemic situation, we are not wearing belts, but we are proposing to increase expenditure... Investments in the amount of more than 300 million euros, not only to face doctors, educators, pensioners and others, but also to create one active incentive for our economy, because of course all that money will be here in Latvia, it will enter into consumption, it will enter into people's payments, and this will help to maintain our economic viability and even development capacity. Because we plan that next year growth would be 5.1%. So, along with the stimulus that has been in this year and the forthcoming incentives... And what is next year... in writing. - (PT) In the budget, we plan to grow 5.1 per cent. And finally. But that's... Perhaps it was also possible to start with this: on the social guarantees and the lessons we all learned during this pandemic. In spring, when we first faced a pandemic, we'd protect our society... and at that time nobody in the world really understood the course of the disease, how dangerous the disease is, how dangerous it is, how could it be treated at all, and how to help patients... We made a decision in the government - and thank you for your support, the Saeima. - declaring an emergency. We closed schools, we came very, very soon to the actual complete isolation from the rest of the world as well - we had the airport closed, passenger transport closed. Lithuania and Estonia closed our internal... Europe's borders and, of course, the external borders with Russia and Belarus were also closed. Thus, we did two things: we controlled the spread of the pandemic in a very short time and we imposed an extremely strong brake on our economy in a very short time. We deliberately did so, so as to protect people from the disease and from the spread of this epidemic. But that fee, of course, was for the economy... We're in a very short time... And it was about the days... We created - I guess three days - a so-called ‘end-of-life allowance’ programme. On the first day we opened it, it was, of course, incomplete, because in three days you can't design and figure out all the details, as it would be right - the main thing was speed. Speed for those companies (e.g. those carrying out passenger transport) which, by our own law, were... They took away all their livelihood... to create a system of benefits for them, to help them economically. And, in the development of this cut-off benefit mechanism, which we now have again, once again, in readiness, we decided in the government yesterday to re-establish the whole structure so that we could, if necessary, if our economy showed such signs again... We already have the experience of spring and summer. And we're going to start not from the beginning when we didn't know how to build such a system, but start with what was already developed, which was at the end of the period, and if necessary we're going to adapt it and improve it, depending on the circumstances... as we would need. But with these benefits... We quickly understood one thing - there are huge numbers of people in Latvia who work, who are healthy, who have nothing to do with and who, in essence, do not require anything from the country. They work, they fairly pay all taxes, but it turns out they are not socially insured. The country, we ourselves, have set up a system in which... man thinks that by paying all taxes... he's already taking it, and I don't blame him... that he is, of course... he pays like others... that he's covered... but, as it turns out, these regimes were established without social security. What does that mean? By creating a break-out allowance for those people (and this is what is the lion's court, or most - 65-70 per cent) who are working under the standard regime of companies... It was very easy to provide support to these companies through the State Revenue Service. In this way, we were able to help more than 40,000 people - people who did not become unemployed; they were overwintering and either returned to their jobs or found a new job. They have not become unemployed, and emigration, substantial emigration, cannot be spoken at all at the moment, in a pandemic situation. Rather, we have seen the opposite: more people are now entering Latvia (our compatriots who have lived abroad in the past) than are leaving, because elsewhere the conditions are not better, and from the point of view of the pandemic, many places in Western Europe are even worse than in Latvia. Still, today too. And these people who work in the standard regime - full social security. It was very easy for the country to identify them and help them. But for those others who work in those so-called alternative modes... They start falling through the sieve. And for that, we were forced to sit in the government after the sitting, to find groups of people and to set up special support programmes for them. We even... I remember, there was one sitting where... there was one group of benefits... If I don't beg you, there were 16 people who qualified for that particular category, but we went like a lupe looking for ways to help everyone. But what does that teach the government, the Saeima, and I think the whole society? It is not right that we allow people to work and rob them of social security. We must be as one normal Nordic country, and I believe that we are one normal European Nordic country. We must ensure that all workers are also socially insured. First. Outside any crisis... Let us look at what will happen when these people reach retirement age! At present, they have no state pension. Perhaps each other is able to accumulate privately, but most people cannot, but they will need to come from the state. They will reach retirement age. They're going to get a pension because... Man has spent his life working and paying taxes. Who will pay that pension? Futures... The other taxpayers will be forced to pay for them because that would be wrong: not paying people pensions. But it's just as wrong not to ask everyone to pay in the course of their working lives... So we must ensure that all workers also pay for their pension. Simply put, so that our children do not have to pay for them in the future when they reach... They'll have already paid themselves into the system. Secondly. And that is what we see in the times of such a pandemic: people need, unfortunately, public support at times, because jobs are lost, economic activity is reduced. For example, even the same tourism sector that is currently going through very, very difficult times around the world... Latvia is no exception. Rather, we... At least during the summer season, we went much better than in many other countries, because we have a very large number of small tourism service providers. It has been more difficult for large hotels. It's just the little ones... They've done it, though... with local and other Baltic countries tourism that replaces tourists from other countries that were not... Even though this sector, which is still in difficult circumstances, we must ensure that all workers are covered by social security. That is why we are proposing in this budget package... not from 1 January, but six months later, i.e. eight months from today, to establish what we call simply a minimum social contribution. This means that all workers - whether they were in one or the other or in the third mode... so-called standard or general mode, or any alternative mode... that all workers are at least covered by social security. Now, there are two things that have to be cut apart. There is such little information in the public space, and I hope that Members will have the opportunity, if they have not yet had the opportunity, to get to know all the documents and understand the system to the end. It is not the government's intention to put people who really have a low income, so the income that is below the minimum wage is below EUR 500 per month on average... make them pay tax for the money they don't have. We have a mechanism in place so that people who work fairly and do not earn the minimum wage... There may be different circumstances. A person lives in a region or a place where there is simply no work or no client. Maybe a man... Well, there these reasons can be very different. We will not punish anyone for not being able to earn a minimum wage. There is a mechanism for these people to continue to work fairly and pay a proportionate tax. But what we want to prevent... According to estimates by the State Revenue Service... and that's what you could say, with an analysis of such data... that it is suspected that is probably about... Even more than 200,000 workers who... employers do not pay a full wage in a legal manner for them. In other words, they are not fully socially insured, even though they are working full time... equivalent... or sometimes even more. And that's where we'll put... And there's also mechanisms to ensure that all the workers... one mode, second mode or third mode... everyone would be covered... But we have a way that is offered - how to separate those people who do not want to pay the tax from those who cannot pay the tax. If a person works and cannot pay the tax, there is no need to worry. Of course, there will always be people who do not want to pay taxes. In my own, I could say, during my career... I can't remember that I would have spoken to someone who likes or wants to pay taxes, but most people understand that these taxes are due because we all want good ways, we all want good teachers for our children, we all expect good health care, we all expect normal services from the country. They also pay. And we, as a society, have to make such an active decision once, that we cannot pay tax but expect good services. If we want good services (and I think we want them), then we also have to pay those taxes, which will cover them. We have to pay social tax to save our own pension when we are no longer working. We must pay taxes so that we can maintain our healthcare system, which is now under enormous pressure as a result of the pandemic. We must pay taxes to ensure that our children are educated and that our roads and transport systems are what we would also like. So, colleagues! A pandemic situation is a challenge for every one of us, to put it mildly. Every one of us, especially elected officials, starting with the Members of the Saeima, who have been directly elected by the nations, through all the members of the government, who have been elected by the Saeima... President of Latvia, all other positions approved by Members of the Saeima... we all have a great responsibility towards our society - not only to represent them, but also to show that we are at the press's attention... to share the example and teach and help remind us how we can stop this spread of the pandemic. On the part of the government, when we propose the budget for 2021, we first of all believe that we need to continue to stimulate the economy, and we will consciously build the budget deficit that we... However, it will be smaller next year than this year, and the next year will be even smaller. So we will reduce the budget deficit, including as the economy develops, but we must continue to stimulate it. We need to improve the competitiveness of our country and reduce the general regime's taxes. Next year - specifically social tax from 1 January, but in 2022 we intend to develop this direction. We need to strengthen justice. The minimum wage must be raised to EUR 500 from 1 January. The increase in full salary for all medical professionals, as the Saeima law determines, the full amount of teachers' salary allowances, as provided for, respect for the decision of the Constitutional Court, of course, the raising of minimum pensions, housing benefits and, finally, social guarantees from 1 July, not from 1 January, but for half a year, so that everyone can understand what the system would be. And it will also hand in hand, of course, with the gradual simplification of these many alternative regimes, even more transparent. And we are still supposed to (it will also be able to tell our finance minister more probably) that in alternative regimes, in the regime that would be turnover tax... We are supposed to put in place, and the banking association has agreed and understood how a transaction account, where this type of taxpayer... He would have an account where the customer transfers money, the bank deducts taxes due to the state, and the balance remains with the customer without any accounts, without any bureaucracy. Not only will we introduce social guarantees, we will also make it easier for those working in this regime to pay with the country, making payment automatic. And that mechanism has already actually been developed. This is the same mechanism where currently banks, if someone has a deposit account and this account brings some profit or interest to a person, then the bank already withdraws taxes due to the state, and money that is in the citizen's account remains in the full citizen's disposal without any bureaucracy. And when it comes to the annual income declaration, it is already automatically appearing; it does not have to break the head. So let's simplify the system, strengthen social guarantees so that all workers have... Let us strengthen justice and build our competitiveness. Colleagues! Members of the Saeima! I call on you not only to debate this budget, but to approve both the budget and the accompanying draft laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U71	Thank you Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš. The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U72	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Colleagues! This year in the world and also in Latvia is the year of diseases in Covid-19 drawing. Spring Day came with great challenges for all of us, which will, in practice, continue to exist. Covid-19 has had a direct impact on our country's economy, health, education and other areas, as well as on the population as a whole. The situation in Latvia, Europe and the world in general developed rapidly and changed. A growing number of countries have imposed various restrictions, prohibiting public events, closing educational establishments, reducing internal... the possibility of crossing borders. The restrictions led to delays in deliveries, cancellations, reservations, which led to a sharp fall in the turnover of many companies in the sector. In order to limit the spread of Covid-19 and to offer concrete solutions to entrepreneurs and workers without delay, the government set up a management group to support business and employees immediately after the emergency was declared. Yesterday in the Cabinet we agreed on the support for this group's activities and we are ready to resume work in the group as early as next week and decide quickly on new support measures to support entrepreneurship and the workforce, if necessary because of restrictions, if the crisis gets worse. In the spring, the group started its work immediately and met at least twice a week in an intensive working regime. In more than 18 sittings, in close cooperation with our social partners - the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Free Trade Union of Latvia - as well as with business organisations, we have taken about 180 decisions in the management group, which were immediately approved by the government, and then those who needed it were approved by the Saeima. One of the first in Europe is that we have been able to provide practical support and actually start allocating financial resources. As early as 25 March, companies could apply for support instruments - guarantees for bank credit holidays, working capital loans. Guarantees for bank credit holidays have allowed banks to defer the amount of basic payments for up to two years. This opportunity has been used by entrepreneurs for a total amount of €85 million. A preferential working capital loan was provided. These are intended for businesses with significantly reduced activity. In total, nearly 500 loan agreements have been concluded for a total of 86 million. Both this and the previous... and future assistance will also be available next year. So this adopted aid does not stop within the framework of this year's budget. The taxpayers affected by the crisis were given the opportunity to apply for an extension of the tax period to three years. By 23 October, we have taken more than 15 000 such decisions to extend the period for payment of taxes by a total amount of EUR 272 million, where all these funds remain at the disposal of the operator or, in the absence of revenue, no tax is paid. In addition, in order to support taxpayers, we quickly returned the money due to them. For example, the amounts overpaid by value added tax were assessed in the shorter term, i.e. within 30 days, and a faster return of EUR 536 million to businesses was generally ensured by 23 October. An option was introduced to pay an end-of-life allowance to businesses and workers and self-employed persons in the final phase. The range of beneficiaries has been broadened on several occasions, supporting an increasing number of citizens facing the Covid-19 crisis. The first cut-off allowance was paid already on 25 March, but in total by the end of August it was paid out to 55 thousand persons, and the total number of transactions is over 130,000. In order to support those workers who were very low or unable to qualify for a soft pay, a soft pay allowance of €180 was introduced. There, too, were 15 000 people with more than one and a half million euros in assistance. Both end-of-life and end-of-life benefit recipients also received a supplement of EUR 50 to the allowance for a dependent child under the age of 24. These premiums have been used by 31 000 people for a total of over €1.6 million. I am convinced that these support measures have had an effect on the preservation of jobs. It is important to note that the registered unemployment rate in Latvia continues the downward trend and since the end of September it has fallen by an additional 0.2 percent, falling to 7.5 percent. In comparison, there are 14.6 percent in Lithuania and 7.7 percent in Estonia. In practice, in the last three weeks we have been in a unique situation where the unemployment rate in Latvia is lower than in Estonia. This has not been the case in the last Decades, and we have always been in the middle. But... And the unemployment rate in Lithuania is more than twice. Given that the Covid-19 virus has braked not only the economy as a whole, but has also affected the flow of business, households and private finances, banks have developed a range of solutions for businesses and individuals in the short term. When assessing the individual situation of each client, banks offered to provide services remotely, as well as to apply the remission of the credit or principal amount of credit to both individuals and companies. By 30 September, 13 300 deferral agreements were concluded with Latvian banks for a total amount of more than one billion euros. The Covid-19 outbreak has required operational coverage of government decisions to mitigate the impact of the pandemic and to support the economy in an emergency situation since mid-March 2020. In general, state aid is provided to pass on over three million euro to the effects of Covid-19. There are two... Three billion, I'm sorry. And that's two billion in real money, plus a billion through Altum's financial instrument. This funding is also available today, and half of it will be used next year. For example, support for various sectors - medicine, transport, education and culture - as well as benefits for our citizens has been almost one billion euros. Aid for loan guarantees has also been granted in excess of EUR 1 billion... guarantees and working capital, as I mentioned already, through the Altum financial institution. In the same way, the cap on municipal borrowing for 2020 was increased by 150 million.... We have also implemented the contribution of the European Union funds to the review... a review of investments of around EUR 760 million, targeting priority measures and measures that would immediately lead to an increase in jobs or an improvement in infrastructure. Colleagues! This crisis has not only affected the health and social sphere, but also has significant consequences for our country's economy as a whole. The reserve on the resources available in the Treasury accounts was supplemented by borrowing in the internal and international financial markets, issuing debt securities in total for the year 2020 for... EUR 2.3 billion so far. A loan from the Nordic Investment Bank of EUR 250 million has also been linked, so in total we have the funds available from the Nordic Investment Bank of EUR half a billion. As a result, a significant amount of funding is already available to the state to improve... Improvements to mitigate impacts and support the economy, which will be complemented in 2021 by borrowing to the extent necessary internal and international... in international financial markets, as well as through guaranteed, financially advantageous borrowing facilities from the European institutions - the Nordic Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, the SURE instrument of the European Commission, which provides unemployment... providing means against rising unemployment. It is important for us to be aware that the state's ability to borrow is limited not by the amount of money, but by how much we are prepared to increase public debt. The fiscal discipline framework makes it possible to increase public debt and support the economy in 2021 as much as is necessary in the future. I believe that we must act in such a way as to avoid, as far as possible, an additional deficit and an increase in debt. However, if the economic impact of a pandemic is such that additional aid... additional aid measures are necessary and can be carried out. The Treasury can provide this with additional borrowing on the markets, both external markets and the internal market. And this year we have borrowed almost twice as much directly on the internal market. It is important that the level of public debt does not exceed 50-52 per cent of GDP (which we also have an agreement in the government-building parties). In the short term, it can provide the necessary support to tackle the crisis, but it should be remembered that in the long term, this will be a burden to be returned to future generations. And coming to the Maastricht criteria of 60 percent, so... the country does not provide solutions to future crises if borrowing is needed. Dear Members of the Saeima! Although there are challenges and uncertainties due to the Covid19, the draft state budget for 2021 envisages substantial additional funding for key sectors of the economy. In 2021, due to the Covid-19, there are challenges... In 2021, the key priorities of the state budget are the increase in salaries of health and education employees, implementation of judgements of the Constitutional Court in the field of welfare, as well as priority measures of independent institutions and changes in taxes for the extension of social security of the population and improvement of the competitiveness of employees in general tax regime. Next year, national consolidated budget revenue is estimated at EUR 9.5 billion, while expenditure is estimated at EUR 10.7 billion. Compared to 2020, the planned revenue of the state budget next year is estimated at €328 million lower, while expenditure is estimated at €744 million higher than this year. The budget's planned revenue is 6.7 billion in 2021, expenditure is 7.8 billion, while the social budget is planned to be balanced: on the revenue and expenditure side, EUR 3.2 billion. This ultimately leads to a budget deficit of EUR 1.2 billion or 3.9 per cent of gross domestic product. It is important to mention some sectors. Thus, in the 2021 budget, the government envisages the largest additional financial allocation to the health sector. And that's EUR 183 billion... EUR million, thus fulfilling the funding provided by the Health Care Financing Act for raising the pay of medical professionals. In the field of education, there is an increase in teachers' pay for pre-school five-year and six-year olds, general education, vocational education as well as vocational guidance and education of interest. It will be allocated EUR 33.3 million in 2021 and EUR 49 million respectively in 2022 and following years. Also, EUR 7.2 million is available for raising the minimum rates of remuneration for academic staff. And the corresponding funding in 2022 and 2023. As the Prime Minister said in his address, the necessary funding for the execution of judgments of the Constitutional Court in the field of welfare is foreseen in the amount of EUR 95.7 million. This includes the increase of minimum pensions and state social security benefits, the financing of guaranteed minimum income and housing benefits, as well as the increase of social guarantees for orphans and children without parental care. The priority measures of independent institutions need EUR 19.4 million, including the exit of public media from the advertising market – EUR 8.3 million. It is important to point out what the Prime Minister also said in his address, that from 2021 it is planned to raise the minimum wage to EUR 500 instead of the previous EUR 430. The government has also managed to agree with the Latvian Municipal Union and local government leaders on a model of how to provide financing to local governments during the crisis. The possibility has been found to increase the total borrowing limit for municipalities to 268 million in 2021. This means that it will be EUR 150 million more borrowing than this year. Loans for pre-school institution investment projects will continue to be available, enabling to reduce the number of children registered in the municipality to the places at pre-school institutions. As early as 2020, 15 new or expanded kindergarten construction projects were supported under this project in 11 municipalities. As a result, almost 2200 children will be able to attend municipal pre-school institutions, which are new groups. The Cabinet has supported the offer that next year municipalities will be able to borrow investment projects of educational institutions, as well as up to 400 thousand euros for the most important priority of the municipality. Once again, the local government... for municipalities, the proportion of municipal budget co-financing has been reduced from 25 per cent to 10 per cent for co-financing investment projects of educational institutions, including pre-school institutions. Having assessed both the amount of state loans and the existing funds of municipalities, it is also planned to change the distribution of personal income tax between municipal budgets and the state budget next year. In future, 25 per cent of the previous 20 per cent will be charged to the state budget, while in municipal budgets - 75 per cent to the previous 80 per cent. Knowing that this tax is the main income and financial resources of municipalities, it is also proposed to maintain guarantees for municipalities in 2021 in the amount of 100 per cent of the personal income tax forecast. This government commitment ensures predictability and stability of budget revenue for municipalities. A common understanding of equalization of municipal funding has also been achieved with municipalities. Changes to the equalisation system can be made following an assessment of the impact of the administrative territorial reform. Therefore, the existing model for calculating the equalisation of municipal finances is maintained in 2021. Honourable Members of the Saeima! In order also to continue the reduction of the tax burden on labour recommended in the European Union recommendations, especially for low-wage workers, and to improve the competitiveness of companies, the national social security contribution rate is reduced by one percentage point: half a percent for employers and half a percent for workers. It also increases the income threshold from EUR 1200 to EUR 1800 per month, subject to a differentiated non-taxable minimum. With this decision, we intend to leave more than EUR 100 million on both company accounts and in citizens' wallets. One of the key issues identified by the Covid-19 crisis is the lack of public social security for a large part of society, which does not allow adequate social support to be obtained if necessary. Therefore, in order to ensure a sustainable national social insurance policy, it is planned to introduce from 2021 a minimum level of national social security contributions for all taxpayers active in economic life. Changes to the existing social security system are needed in order to provide all workers with at least the minimum social protection in the future. As a result, there will be a certain and measurable impact on the social security of citizens, both in times of crisis and in terms of reaching retirement age. Gradually, it is planned to limit the micro-enterprises tax regime to the owner of the micro-enterprise, increase the turnover of the tax rate and introduce other changes. It is planned that the rate of turnover of up to 25 thousand euros will be 25 per cent, while the rate of turnover of over 25 thousand euros will be 40 per cent. It is also planned to introduce transaction accounts, where practically all activities will be carried out by commercial banks and the State Revenue Service in the tax account and there will be no need to carry out additional accounting activities. Taking into account that the taxes paid by beneficiaries of royalties do not provide adequate social insurance guarantees for persons, it is also planned to change the tax regime for beneficiaries of royalties. From 1 July to 31 December of the following year, it is planned to apply a special tax scheme to the royalties paid by the income payer, other than a collecting society, who have not registered an economic activity. From the second half of next year, a person receiving royalties who has not registered an economic activity will be taxed at 25 per cent of his income, and most of this withholding tax (i.e. 80 per cent of the tax) will be passed on to social contributions by promoting social guarantees for both short-term social services and pension savings. It is also intended to maintain the reduced rate of 5 % for fruit, berries and vegetables until 31 December 2023. Colleagues, it is expected that after the fall in 2020, economic growth will return in 2021 and gross domestic product will increase by 5.1 percent according to the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, consumer prices and wage growth will also become faster, the number of people in the economy will increase and unemployment will fall. In its forecasts, the Ministry of Finance is based on conservative assumptions, as well as assessing external and internal environmental risks. I would like to emphasise that the economic activity will also be stimulated by the investments of the European funds in the programming period 2021-2027, in particular in the context of the European Recovery and Stability Mechanism finance and the implementation of the Rail Baltica project. In 2021, the intensive implementation of projects co-financed by the current European Structural Funds programming period will continue, so that Latvia will receive a total funding allocation of 4.4 billion euros by 2023. 2021 also marks the start of the next multiannual budget period of the European Union. It will also include a new cohesion policy in the European Funds in 2021-2027. During this programming period, we have a €4.43 billion investment allocation in the programme. The regulatory framework for the approval of the operational programme is not yet fully developed, but the budget law predicts the financing of investments from the first year of eligibility of expenditure in order to ensure as soon as possible contribution to the Latvian economy. Foreign financial assistance also includes grants from the European Economic Area and Norway directed by donor countries (in this case Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein) to the new Member States of the European Union to reduce economic and social disparities. Currently, consistent programme implementation forecasts... The European Economic Area and Norway grant cash-flow forecast for expenditure in 2021 is EUR 15.9 million. A substantial part of the European recovery funding initiated by the European Commission will be directed towards a recovery and resilience mechanism. It aims to support reforms and investments, in particular those linked to the transition to a green and digital economy, and to mitigate the social and economic impact of the crisis. The new instrument in Latvia is not only a great opportunity, but also a great responsibility to prepare qualitatively in a very tight timetable so as not to lose the opportunity to obtain funding, ensure the launch of reforms and investment investments as early as next, 2021. For Latvia, the amount of EUR 2.2 billion is planned from this mechanism, of which EUR 1.65 billion is guaranteed, while the rest of the funding will be calculated in an indicative way. Dear Members of the Saeima! The government is committed to continue to follow the development of the situation and to act responsibly in accordance with it. We are ready to ensure both the reduction of virus transmission and support for our economy by providing the necessary funding and support for the sectors. The state budget is the basis for the development of all sectors in everyday and crisis situations. Therefore, I call on the Saeima to evaluate the draft law prepared and the accompanying draft law, as well as to approve the draft budget for the year 2021 and the draft budget for the medium term in the Saeima at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U73	Thank you, Minister for Finance, Janis Reiers. Dear colleagues, Time for 30 minutes break. First registration of Members. It was a success. So it's a break until 11:20 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U74	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. We are continuing the debate. Name to Minister for Welfare Ramon Petravič. ( Pause) Colleagues! The name is given to Minister for Welfare Ramonas Petraviča in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U75	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The 2021 budget for prosperity will be very important, as €225.8 million is expected to increase next year's funding compared to this year. Minimum income thresholds will be raised, for which the Ministry of Welfare has raised alarms for years. Increasing the minimum age and disability pension, as well as increasing the state social security benefit, will continue to raise the level of income for people living on the poverty line that started last year. At present, we live in uncertainty about the economic impact of the second Covid-19 outbreak. However, it is important that the most socially protected people will be able to count on income growth next year. The raising of minimum pensions and benefits shows that Latvia can be a state with legal and social responsibility. The Ministry of Welfare offered improvements to the system of minimum income level last year, but the government did not fully support it. However, I would like to emphasise that it is the responsibility of the State to regularly assess the adequacy of social assistance provided to citizens to guarantee that it is in line with social realities and that the need for help is provided to the poor. At the same time, the scale of this assistance must be determined by a reasonable and reasonable method. In order to implement the initiatives of the Ministry of Welfare on raising the minimum income threshold, a total of €70.7 million will be spent next year. At the same time, I would like to stress that talking about millions, which will be spent in addition on welfare or some other sector, creates confusion and negative emotions in many people of Latvia, because they do not believe that this money will be made available to them. However, it is the socially most vulnerable people who will feel a supplement in their masks. The lowest pension next year will no longer be less than EUR 149.60 instead of the previous EUR 88. A significant increase in invalidity pensions as well as public social security benefits for individual groups will exceed a third of the current amount, including in the case of old age from the current EUR 64 to 109. I would like to emphasise that neither the Ministry of Welfare, nor the government, nor the Saeima can give anyone as much money as he would like, but these annexes, which we have agreed on in the coalition and which the country can afford financially, are the largest. There will always be people who are criticising politicians and who find something bad in every decision, but this time the budget has managed to create one with broad support in dealing with years of pain. One of them is the issue of eternal children and the problems of an assistant. From the middle of next year, the conditions for receiving an assistant's service, including the remuneration of an assistant, will be significantly improved. An additional €9.5 million is foreseen in the budget for this purpose. At the same time, the reporting system of the Assistant will be simplified by refusing to collect detailed evidence. It is also planned that as of July 2021, the guardian’s allowance for the maintenance of the child will be doubled. For this purpose, an additional €2.4 million is planned next year. The next year's budget will also increase support for children in the event of the death of a survivor. It is important to stress that pensions will also be higher next year due to the indexation carried out in October this year. The next year's budget will spend €93,6 million to finance and continue to support pension beneficiaries. Finally, I would like to emphasise that, in the context of the next year's budget, it is also essential to mention municipalities and their responsibilities towards citizens. Guaranteed minimum income increase from €64 to €109 from 1 January next year will be an additional burden for local government budgets, also introducing a common approach in granting housing benefits will be a challenge and additional expenditure, however, these steps are also important for reducing inequality and improving welfare in Latvia. I call on you to support the draft state budget for next year and the accompanying draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U76	Thank you, Minister for Welfare, Ramon Petravič. Name to the Minister of Defence, Mr Pabrik.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U77	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! Hello, colleagues! It's good to hear you again, I don't think I can see. I will perhaps outline the defence budget for next year in a shorter way. And I must say: of course, the defence budget comes from our national resources, so we cannot expect any European money and benefits, as it may be in other sectors, and at the same time we also see our budget, like other ministries, in a three-year perspective. What may be positive in our sense with the defence budget for next year is that we are able to maintain the growth that has started in previous years, their cooperation with those Latvian businessmen, entrepreneurs participating in the Federation of Latvian Security and Defence Industries, and not only, and which increasingly, based directly on local resources of Latvia, provide daily Latvian soldiers, the Latvian National Guards... and the armed forces. For the following year, this budget is 707,82 million and, in this sense, our internal distribution... I can give you... It is divided into approximately three parts. So a third of this budget goes to development, a third goes to maintenance, and a third goes to salaries, pensions and other places. Consequently, it is by nature a healthy budget in accordance with our common NATO standards and allows a large part of these funds to circulate and stay in the Latvian economy. It is important to note here that the Ministry of Defence pays very close attention to exactly how we use local orders in our further development, because if we also make some kind of procurement (which must be done a lot, because many things still cannot be produced in Latvia, and this is normal because the military industry is a complex industry), then we always ask suppliers from abroad to leave part of this amount in local investment. If I have to talk about the most important things that are important to us in the development of next year, about the budget that you will have to vote on, then here is very serious... an important section is the development of infrastructure, because we not only need to provide us with, for example, warehouses and accommodation for our soldiers, because, as we can see, the defence ministries and NBS sector as a whole is also entrusted with a responsible position in the Covid-19 crisis to take care of the national reserves for all the safeguards against this virus. And that means that our warehouses are full, and we need warehouses not only for masks, not only for gloves, but also for bathrobes, we need warehouses for both ammunition, our equipment and everything else. Of course, this development in the National Armed Forces has only begun in recent years, when our budget finally reaches two per cent of gross domestic product. If we look at planning as a whole, we can see that, as I have already mentioned, the heading "Personal, maintenance and development" is very healthy and balanced. Similarly, it is often possible for Members or the public to ask whether or not there is too much money going on with some kind of bureaucratic spending or official, or somewhere else that seems to be not a good indicator. I should point out here, however, that, of course, we are imposing additional administrative burdens on the country all the time, not always by evaluating them successfully, at the same time, if I look at my industry, at the distribution of defence budget, then, in fact, the National Armed Forces (and also the management of property) are actually leaving in fact about 90 percent, which is also a very, very good indicator, given that the remaining 10 percent of them have such things as the Latvian Geospatial Information Agency, the Latvian War Museum, the New Guard Centre - things that are also comparable to security. Go on. If we are still talking about our development plans, you know that we have this ambitious reform plan on the implementation of defence training from 2024 on which the Saeima has decided and voted. Here too, of course, a large part of the budget will go by preparing places where these pupils will be able to learn, participate in camps, work and learn. If I look through the budget prism at the development of the capacity of the National Armed Forces in 2021, next year... As far as this budget is concerned, I would like to divide some 10 main points here... the main development directions, which are: combat engineers, the capacity of medium-capacity pedestrians, the special mission unit, which, you see, is of great importance in any modern crisis, command systems that involve not only land forces, but also the development of our capacity for air protection and coastal protection, of course, the capacity of intelligence, indirect fire support, certainly - the Earthguard, because in the Earthguard we have this ambitious plan to increase the Earthguard to 12 thousand during a given period, air transport, where we will slowly replace obsolete Soviet helicopter against American product helicopters, and of course I have mentioned the air space, but here too, air space and fire protection, where we are working very hard on these topics. In essence, I would perhaps also like to mention the development of landfills, because, as we know, the forces of our allies have been in Latvia... Although Adazi's landfill is the most modern and largest landfill in the Baltics, it's over-exploited, as not only soldiers and technology from all our teams are trained here every day, but also the allies deployed here, as well as our allies from Estonia. The British also come to us often to train at Adaži, and they come in line to get access to the landfill because they don't have such a good offer in Estonia. This means that we also have to load our central landfill, and we plan to develop and develop three regional landfills, which means that we do not build them again, but improve them. This means that one landfill is near Skrunda - “Mazaine” and another landfill – “Lāču sils”, which is near the Alūksne carbaze, and, of course, also a landfill in Latgale – “Maza Mackevivi”. We have already set up a jewellery from our artillery units during this year - previously it was in Latgale, near the Forest Mackevičius. At the moment, this location is also being planned in the direction of Valmiera-Gulbene, which is also necessary in the direction of our protection. In Kurzeme, of course, there is a very intensive work on one of our main priorities, which is also the creation of a cadet school near Skrunda landfill, also trying to combine this complex here. At the end of your time and without delay, I wanted to say another important political thing. We can see that the global security environment does not remain more stable with both the Covid-19 pandemic and with many other challenges. Challenges are growing, the role of international organisations is decreasing, and unfortunately, in many places we see that justice is being demanded by force rather than by law or by justice. From this point of view, it is very important to maintain our investment and development in the field of our protection, because we cannot simply rely on the mercy of a potential opponent or opponent, we must be able to say that - yes, we do not want to engage in any form of conflict, but at the same time we are prepared, morally prepared, and we are also technically and practically capable of protecting our national independence as well as our democracy, our freedoms, whose representatives are also you, as the Latvian Parliament. Consequently, I call on all Members - both the position and the opposition - to support this year's budget because, from a defence point of view, it is reasonable, it is appropriate and it goes hand in hand with other regional, close-to-neighbourhood planning in defence. As with Estonia, Lithuania, Finland and Sweden, which invest very seriously in protection at this moment. This budget is, of course, far from exaggerating from our point of view. We would have liked this to be even greater, given the additional responsibilities that lie with us, even with the same reserve purchases in the Covid-19 pandemic. But the National Armed Forces do not complain, we are also modest enough, and so we are ready to operate with this available budget, because it allows us to continue to develop. Thank you for your attention. Of course, I call on you to support this budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U78	Thank you to Mr. Pabrik. Name for Minister of Education and Science Ilga Šuplinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U79	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Members! Colleagues! Hello! Lobby dyna! Oh, my God! We live three times in difficult times. It is the Covid-19, which sets rules and puts those works that we all have used to do at the usual rhythm, to do with a completely different intensity, with completely other creative and unexpected solutions. These are the many reforms launched in the field of education. And thirdly, perhaps even the most important thing, we see that, at present, public opinion is changing with great succession and, I would say, purposefully. This means that we really go to a society in Latvia that is a knowledge society responsible for its actions is able to self-reflect and take responsibility. As for the Ministry of Education and Science budget, I will focus my speech on two blocks. First. Let me describe a little bit of the figures at this point in the Ministry of Education and Science budget. Then the first thing - we see that the website provided by the Ministry of Finance also shows that 8.7 per cent is allocated to education from the country's total budget. At the same time, the figure for the Ministry of Education and Science is 786 million. It should be stressed that, for fuel years in turn, it is the expenditure of the general budget that is going on in the medium-term budget as well, and this is a very positive factor. At the same time, it can also be pointed out at the same time that most of the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science - this year it is 52 per cent and (in terms of figures) 405 million - is allocated to the municipal budgets for a targeted grant to teachers. The Ministry of Education and Science is responsible for five areas of basic responsibility. It is education with a budget of 72 per cent, science of 8 per cent, sport of 4 per cent, youth and language of 0.3 per cent of the total budget. It is clear that the demand from the Ministry of Education and Science, particularly with regard to scientific funding, with higher education funding, has been higher, while we must recognise that we have received 45 million in additional funding, I emphasise once again in the general budget, and this is linked to the rise in salaries both for teachers and academic staff. This means that, after a longer period, this will be the first year in which educators, including academic staff, will be aware of this when they adopt the budget, not when they fight for this rise in salaries during the current year. The second position associated with this increase is the renewed Song and Dance Celebration. We very much hope that despite the Covid-19, we will be able to organise the Song and Dance Festival next summer. Perhaps they will be in a different form, perhaps not only in the centre, but also in all regions, but we very much hope that we will succeed. As regards the priorities of the Ministry of Education and Science, the government declaration already stressed that the most important work is quality of education, and at the Ministry of Education and Science everything is currently being done to sort out, strengthen and, to say, focus funding directly on quality of education. I will therefore go further than three priorities, which are also the biggest work to be done this year. The first relates to the organisation of the school network, and it is a little sad to listen to the rhetoric that sounds in the media that the school reform, which started in 2016, is still ongoing, even at this moment, and the municipalities are not ready for it. And not because it doesn't see that the quality of education lacks purposefully adopted and driven decisions, but mainly because the reorganisation of the school network is linked to the review of municipal work and expenditure. If I mentioned that in the total budget, education expenditure accounts for 8.7 percent, then when we saw each municipality's budget cut (and we met 119 municipalities last year), we saw that education expenditure was made up of 40 to 60 percent of municipal expenditure. This means that the amount of funding is high, but at the same time targeted support for educators, the provision of modern education, and the development of the capacities and talents of children and young people are not being sufficiently developed. That is why, now too, when publishing and, I must say, when preparing this information report on the organisation of the school network, we draw attention to the fact that the objective of quality education consists, in principle, of three very important components: education aimed at developing the abilities of a child, a young person, education that respects modern technology and a support system for educator, both methodologically and financially and organisationally. And as a very important component in this respect, it is this cooperation with the municipality. I am therefore pleased that, following the adoption of the information report, work is now starting on the interinstitutional working group, which will finally address three very important issues. First of all, we have managed to understand and convince local government representatives that it is necessary to develop an optimal methodology to understand what are direct and which are indirect costs of education in order to compare the education system in Latvia. In other words, a similar task is being carried out in Europe, and the OECD is now also looking for such a methodology. Let me say more: one of the first quality tools for digital education, which is currently under preparation (and we are waiting for this on December), will be an effective school model. The second work to be done is related to intercontinental settlements and how the "money follower" system will change. And the third one, which is through the two, is the change in the awareness of teachers' salaries, loads and also, I must say, the load. Apart from the setting-up of the school network, a second major challenge is the reform of university management, and it also has several stages. At the moment, thank you to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which is working on the examination of amendments to the Law on Higher Education. We very much hope that this work will be concluded this year and universities will be able to start thinking about councils... on councils as an instrument that can increase university autonomy and, most importantly, highlight the most important achievements of the university and also the attractiveness of their scientific and research component in the international educational space. The second step relates to reviewing the career and workload of academic staff. Just like putting up a school network... We have a very important issue relating to human capital growth, strengthening its conviction and competence, including through the creation of support mechanisms. The third concerns the sharing of resources, and here we already have positive examples. It is a consortium established by Daugavpils University, Liepaja University, Latvian University of Agriculture, which currently looks at and thinks about the implementation of joint programmes, how to use resources effectively and draw closer to excellence, which is one of the goals of higher education and science in Latvia. That is why, in order to strengthen excellence and make Latvian scientists very small, but at the same time with a very strong, innovative character... We're done... and we continue our cooperation, and we expect positive news from both the European Space Agency and CERN and from other centres of excellence in science and research in the world, and we very much hope that the strengthening of the STEM area alongside Latvia's unique and, I must say, the very high level culture tradition will become the key to Latvia's success and, most importantly, also the solver of economic problems. In vocational education, the focus will also be on reviewing the resource and, above all, the efficiency of the infrastructure, while not forgetting that monitoring of graduates is very important, and we will certainly also focus on how students from professional institutions find or, on the contrary, do not find their place in life on the labour market. Professional education, which will be strengthened also with this working environment approach, will definitely regain both prestige and the ability to compete in the world. Given that it is the change in the career of academic staff that plays a very important role in university management, I will say at the outset that our aim is that we no longer talk in higher education about the basic component as a teacher, as a teacher, but about the basic component as a scientist, as a researcher. This shift in focus will strengthen not only the cooperation between scientific institutions and the scientific community itself, but also its cooperation with business, industry and the development of fundamental science. And most importantly, it is very important for us that the research dimension is strengthened already in the middle education phase. We very much hope that researchers and higher education teachers will be, I would say, ambassadors of research ideas in the middle education phase to understand and motivate young people to focus on new topics, new challenges and create Latvia as a creative and innovative land. And our third priority relates to sports management. There are many things in sports management that have not been carried out for years, and here I have to say a huge thank you both for the sector's response to changes in the ministry's activities, and for the fact that the sports sub-committee is led by Sandis Riekstins, who has indeed created the ground for very useful development of sports management and, I would say, for the whole of the sport guidelines, understanding and strategy. Therefore, I very much hope that the changes that have taken place will make it possible for the public to understand and find a balance between the fact that we want high-performance sport to continue to be a Latvian brand... At the same time, we would very much like the involvement of Latvians in sport to be much higher than it is today. We also want to strengthen professional orientation in sport and at this point, as we think about digitalisation in every area, which means that it is precisely technology that will allow the Latvian education system to regain its competitiveness in higher education, to regain excellence in secondary education, to see really interested, motivated students, and certainly also job joy and professional development skills in vocational education. Thank you. And I very much look forward to the support of the Saeima in the discharge of the budget and also in the approval of accompanying draft laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U80	Thank you to Mrs. Long Schuplinsk. Name of Minister for Culture Naurim Puntulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U81	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Colleagues! This is a budget of solidarity. We live in a pandemic period where we focus more than another time on ourselves, asking questions: “Am I sick? Will I lose my job? Will I survive?’ Like a pandemic, we are only able to defeat society together, and we also need to be able to look at the state budget in a spirit of solidarity, seeing more than just ourselves in it. As for the Ministry of Culture budget, yes, it is far from being the 2020 budget with an increase of 16 percent in wages for those working in the sector and other supported priorities, including the Covid-19 support of 20 million. However, we must not, and especially now, support the government's priority in a joint and several way - medical practitioners, just as education workers, from which more than three million will come from our cultural education, which still represents the largest budget chapter in the budget of the Ministry of Culture 191 million. A brief description of the taxes that have led to a wide public resonance. Thus, the tax system must be fair and solidarity-based; secondly, social security; thirdly, for a simple user. Today's tax system does not correspond to any of these principles, not only from the point of view of the Ministry of Culture, but also within the sector. Yes, language and culture are the meaning and basis of our country's existence and, of course, national culture requires special support, but a corrupt tax system is not the most appropriate way to support culture. On changes in taxes. It must be acknowledged that uncertainty and concerns about change have been greater and greater than the changes themselves. We have tried to explain, but it has obviously not been enough. Thus, the most significant changes to the beneficiaries of royalties. First. It is an operating account with an interest rate of 25 per cent of turnover which, by its nature, returns to the authors themselves for 80 per cent. Long awaited, fair, socially secure and simple. This growth gap must be compensated by the government, and here my position is and will be principled. Secondly. Those authors who are not prepared for this regime are not prepared for an economic activity account and who, by virtue of their specific nature, have a lot of real expenditure while generating their work, are still subject to registration as a self-employed person, both at the rate of eligible expenses and at the cost which can be written off (justified by proof) up to 80 per cent. Thirdly. There will be no change to the revenue of authors of the so-called passive copyright. Is this the time for change? First. We're not talking about this moment, but we're talking about July 1, next year. Secondly. Tax changes are a process that will never be the moment for society as a whole. Thirdly. If the government undertakes to compensate for this increase in taxes, then this is the moment. And I am sure that we will be able to agree on this compensatory mechanism and the compensatory amount so that, at the moment when we have overcome the crisis, we can start up with new rules that will prevent the recurrence of the situation of a large part of the cultural sector at the moment when the cut-off benefits were calculated, and in the long term, we will resolve the situation that we are seeing now, when the National Culture Capital Fund has been supported, in the queue of cultural seniors who are unable to pay their bills for heating, communal bills and medicine bills. I agree that there has been little time for these changes. Every day, we still have discussions with both industry and the Ministry of Finance. We are on the way to still correct its shortcomings and errors, agree on the amount of compensatory funding, in cooperation with the creative unions and the procedure of compensation established by the State Culture Capital Foundation to incorporate it into draft laws and adopt the state budget at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U82	Thank you to the Minister for Culture, Naurim Puntulis. Development/About! Mr Pavluts will speak on behalf of the Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U83	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! Well, as in Latvia, it has not been called the main state finance document - the state budget. It could even be said that the title of the budget tolerates everything. We have had public budgets for the last three years, budgets for the collection or consolidation of belts, has been a gift to the centenary of the country... whether it was intended for severe use or with an ironic dose. The next year's budget has already been called a budget for the fulfillment of promises; it has been heard that it is also called a budget for the pandemic. The Minister for Culture has just spoken about the budget for solidarity. For my part, I would like to describe this even more differently. I think it will be a budget for humanity. I have to say, the debate on the budget also tolerates everything. They are likely to be contradictory and contain mutually exclusive claims. We will hear accusations about both the fact that we do not spend even more money on the deficit, or to put it more clearly, at the expense of public debt, and also... Let us hear that increasing public debt even in these Covid-19 crises - social, economic, not just in the context of the health crisis... that it would not be responsible. It is perhaps the politicians who, even in times of economic upheaval, have not been able to ensure the adoption of a balanced budget, even if they are in power. Covid-19 we mention and will mention many times, both as a reason to do something and as a reason not to do something. As regards Covid-19, we will talk about both what the draft budget contains and what it does not contain. But now let me talk a little about what the draft budget contains and why I personally call it the budget of humanity. Despite and despite the Covid-19 crisis, doctors and teachers will have higher salaries. Unprecedented wage supplement - without a diverse group of people entering the streets, without loud protest actions. This year, you did not listen, we managed to reach a consensus with the government partners that those on the front line in the fight against Covid-19 should also be on the first lines of the next year's national budget. In hospitals and medical practice, both in the care of the patient and in schools, with children and their parents adapting to work in the new Covid-19 reality. Let us be honest, they deserved a wage supplement long ago, long before the Covid-19 crisis. But hearing ears to listen to this hurtful problem, no matter how hard we try, only now can be found. Thank you to doctors, their helpers, sisters, and all those who have waited so long. Despite and despite the Covid-19 crisis, we are taking a step towards reducing the tax burden on labour. Finally, we in Latvia can really act counter-cyclicalally and reduce taxes when it is particularly difficult. We will reduce social contributions by one percentage point. And this has been appreciated by our businessmen as support for the fight against competition on the Baltic level. We will not stop at that. Despite and despite the Covid-19 crisis, we will support the poorest and most vulnerable. Let us raise a minimum wage; We are encouraged by the Constitutional Court, we will improve the social security system so that it ensures a life that is appropriate to human dignity. Despite and despite the Covid-19 crisis... The exit of public media from the advertising market will help to strengthen the weakened media industry. Public media will no longer depend on advertising revenue. Commercial media should also be strengthened. They will be able to compete more successfully in the new context, but they still need more support to strengthen the security and quality of the national media space. Unfortunately, all domestic work has not been carried out and it will be a correction of errors. If good intentions fail, then it is a common problem for all of us. I am, of course, talking about reviewing alternative tax regimes. Creative people must not suffer from budgetary decisions, where they are still in this time of Covid-19 crisis, ignorance and difficulty! All Latvians must receive social guarantees, this is a matter of justice and humanity, but it is equally fair that all employees must also pay taxes fairly for these social guarantees. That should be clear, predictable and as simple as possible. The correction of errors must be carried out by all of us, and work must be done even before the final budget vote. That is our joint responsibility. Just as our shared responsibility is the fight against the Covid-19, both here in the Saeima and in the government and throughout Latvia. Above all, we must bear in mind that this is a budget that increases salaries for doctors and teachers, a budget for humanity. Development/About! vote on conceptual support for the draft state budget 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U84	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance, Member Ilze Indricksone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U85	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! In all speeches and in all opinions, the word ‘ pandemic’, the word ‘crisis’ and ‘Covid-19’ is used today. Indeed, this budget is a very great reflection, looking at everything from the edge, and the wishes and intentions of each sector, each ministry, have far from been successful. The Covid-19 pandemic has also brought about a major change in fiscal policy. This year, the general exception clause of the European Union's Stability and Growth Pact was activated, which allowed the balance to be maintained and the budget deficit to be increased in order to invest in mitigating the damage caused by the economy. When setting up this budget, it was assumed that the general exception clause would remain in force in 2021, but... It is assumed that the clause will no longer be in force in 2022, but we believe that this assumption is unlikely to be confirmed, especially when we see the current situation in Europe. The budget forecasts the recovery of tax revenue growth in 2021 and in the medium term. This will, of course, be supported both by an increase in economic activity and by a rise in minimum wages, and by an increase in the remuneration of health professionals, educators and academic staff. However, perhaps the positive economic impact and the increase in wages in the private sector, which will be the result of both the contribution to the economy of the Covid-19 pandemic and the renewal of the European Union, have not been taken into account... Implementation of the Recovery and Stability Mechanism. We still need to be prepared, and in the future, to invest more in promoting economic growth and overcoming the impact of the pandemic. From next year it is planned to raise the minimum wage to EUR 500. This will, of course, have a positive impact on tax revenue, but at the same time it will increase expenditure both in municipal budgets and in the state budget. We already assessed the possibility of raising a minimum wage in the 2020 budget, but this was not done because there were reasonable concerns about the ability of entrepreneurs to actually implement it. At present, the situation in rural areas and low-skilled low productivity jobs has not changed significantly. And, on the one hand, it could be an additional incentive to increase productivity, efficiency, but on the other hand, it only remains to express the hope that there will be a minority of companies that will not be able to adapt to these changes, which can result in the loss of already missing jobs in rural areas. In this period of pandemic, of course, there has been, even a little impossible - a first and very important step towards the competitiveness of labour costs is being taken. This will bring our labour tax burden closer to our neighbours and, in sectors with greater added value, it will provide opportunities to compete both for attracting new businesses and creating new jobs. In order to achieve this objective, the rate of national social security contributions has been reduced by one percentage point. And there is also an increase to the income threshold of EUR 1800, which is subject to a differentiated non-applicable minimum. It should be noted that this will reduce the low wage trap, as the employer will significantly reduce the costs for each euro paid to the employee, which is close to the average wage in the country. At the same time... the main beneficiaries will be those who earn a little above the average wage in the country, but if they have two children and have, for example, a wage of EUR 700, then the benefit of tax changes would be less than those who work without children and have the same pay. These changes will provide less support directly to workers with several children, and we therefore strongly insist on the reform of the family allowance and a substantial increase in the benefit directly to families with several children. The Covid-19 crisis has also highlighted the lack of social protection for the population. Undoubtedly, the whole great epic with soft pay showed it clearly and lightly. This is why a minimum national social security contribution is to be introduced to improve the social protection of the population and to fully involve a larger proportion of the economically active population in social insurance. No matter how complex and difficult it may sound, the most important thing is to provide people with clear, simple information... and be prepared, knowledgeable and informed throughout this process. We will never be able to guarantee that the decisions of the Saeima and the decisions of the government will reach citizens in a simple, understandable and sufficiently clear way. It is planned that as of 1 January 2021, the salary... the minimum wage will be EUR 500, but with effect from 1 July this minimum amount of social security will be equivalent to the contribution from the minimum wage, but it will only apply to those who do not reach this level in the normal manner. Thanks to our insistence and arguments, we have achieved that social security contributions will be aggregated for all jobs and for all types of employment (as opposed to what was originally proposed, that these contributions should be achieved by each type of employment and by each type of employment). Several sections of the population will not have to achieve this minimum contribution, as they can rightly work part-time. It is already foreseen that it will not be provided for pensioners, students, people with significant loss of capacity, parents raising children under three years of age. In our view, it should also not be provided for parents who bring up three or more children, one of whom is under seven years of age. The introduction of a minimum contribution must be made in such a way that those who really earn more participate in making social contributions at the appropriate level, so that we do not extort any part of the population that is now capable of taking care of itself... forced to go into the shadow economy and they could not legally continue to work where they are currently doing so by supplying themselves and their families. We do not support the proposal that a self-employed person who really earns less than the minimum wage would face a significant increase in the tax burden. The implementation and practical implementation of these changes should be assessed in terms of fairness, simplicity and humaneness of the process of their implementation. Workers in other, alternative, tax regimes will have to participate more in ensuring their social protection. We did not support the proposal to waive copyright tax conditions as such. It would have been... disproportionate increases in taxes would have been created and would have been difficult on the part of authors who are not at all accountants. The most important benefit for authors will be that 80 per cent of the taxes they pay will be paid into social contributions, i.e. substantially more social security. That is the most important thing that we have also highlighted during the whole crisis... and felt during this period. The government also plans to gradually increase the rates of excise duty on tobacco products. We have assessed, however, that a higher increase in the tax on new products entering the market (such as hot tobacco) is necessary in order to reach 50 per cent of the excise duty on cigarettes in the coming years. This additional funding would make it possible to improve the screening of oncological diseases and even increase the use of new and effective medicines in the treatment of oncological patients. Taking into account that remote work opportunities have become relevant, it is planned that personal income tax will not be levied on the employee's expenses, which are related to the remote work, which is current topicality, but which will definitely not lose its importance in the years to come. At the same time, it should be stressed that the increase in the salaries of medical and educators, which is important and inevitably very important both now... in general, all the most important sectors of the country are both education and healthcare at present... funding has been partly found in the increase in tax revenues, changing the breakdown of personal income tax revenues... the distribution of the tax revenue between the general budget of the State and the municipal budget, i.e. by reducing the proportion of the municipal budget. It must be acknowledged that these changes will require local authorities to carry out a detailed re-evaluation of their spending and surrender of part of their voluntary initiatives, as well as a reduction in investment opportunities. This will be a difficult challenge for administrative territorial reform at a time when it is necessary to balance the different social programmes of the municipalities to be merged. Now would be the time to build an incentive model for economic development... the model of municipal financing, shifting a part of the municipal income from corporate tax or... personal income tax... not only after the place of residence, but also after the workplace... Although the borrowing limit of 150 million euros was increased for municipalities this year, its actual implementation shows that municipalities will not be able to use all... This option is complete. It would therefore be important to reassess the lending criteria and provide loans to all high-quality projects that will improve the quality of municipal services. The 2021 budget is the budget for social security, reducing inequalities and health care. It's not a budget for irons and a budget for concrete! There will also be a long-awaited change in the calculation of the minimum pension regime, which will increase the minimum pension. Its calculation will be more equitable - not for decades of service, but for each year of service. The reduction of poverty and income inequalities will be encouraged by increasing the amount of the state social security benefit and by substantially increasing support for children in the event of a survivor's loss. Access to assistant services will be improved. Support for children under direct guardianship will be doubled. The additional funding will allow public media to use broadcasting time in a meaningful and qualitative way, leaving the advertising market in full. At the same time, it will be an opportunity for commercial media to generate more revenue from advertisers. Of course, there is also satisfaction with the decision made to maintain the reduced rate of value added tax on fruit and vegetables typical of Latvia for a further period of three years. The budget is the most important decision of the government for the year, but it will not end with the approval of the budget; work must continue to be done to enable future solutions to ensure the quality of life and the recovery of the population. Family state benefits reform - from 2022... It will provide greater and more targeted support for families with children. And that means going well on. The next major steps will have to be taken to improve the competitiveness of our country's economy and reduce the tax burden on labour. I invite you to support this budget and work together for the future of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U86	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union, Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U87	Hello, honourable Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Thank you to all the ministers, thank you to the Prime Minister. Thank you for the long presentations and an up-to-date presentation of your industries, talking about this year's... next year's budget. For our part, we are looking more critically at this draft budget and we have repeatedly pointed out those things that prevent us from supporting this draft budget for the time being. We hope for a significant change in time between the two readings. For our part, let us make proposals. And we also rely on the support of our colleagues. But a little more than those objections to things that we believe will not ensure the sustainable development of the economy and also justice and social guarantees... as many have been mentioned here. First of all, the government also promised people in Latvia a better life when they started their work. For many, it seemed encouraging. At the moment, there is such a special context - the cracks Covid-19. It is a disease that affects not only human health but also the overall health of the economy and the economy. The government is fighting it by limiting it, prohibiting it... Well, at times it also seems that the shepherd is doing it decisively, but Covid-19 still takes away the job, takes away the lives and, as many say, shoots the leg... in one foot for entrepreneurs, for citizens. And in this situation, unfortunately, there is also the feeling that the government is shooting many members of society on a second foot, putting them on their knees. And strange, that's it! Because, in fact, this is the moment when there is indeed a much looser fiscal discipline that can be spent more, in fact, the budget deficit is, to a large extent, not even limited; there are also funds from the European Union of almost EUR 2 billion that can be invested in economic development. There are resources, there are opportunities to support society to support entrepreneurs to help them recover at this very difficult time. But, unfortunately, this is not done. What the government is doing with this budget: two essential things - money is being taken away from local governments, money is being taken away from regional development. And that does not mean that the money is taken away from municipal members. This means that the standard of living in the regions is going to get worse. More than EUR 100 million: an additional burden on municipalities... It means they're going to be more difficult... Budgetary cuts mean that they will find it more difficult to provide social assistance to people at the times when they will come after them. It will be much more difficult to provide new infrastructure in the form of kindergartens, playgrounds and streets; it is a critical infrastructure that is needed for a quality of life. And where else to talk about support for cultural events and other things that municipalities have to do! And the other. There's a block of small entrepreneurs. We now know that about 250 thousand Latvian employees are those who... which are not even covered by minimum social contributions. They are in fact either part-time employees or they work in small modes. And this is an area for which the government will place a huge tax burden on its own, which, in times of crisis, will be inexpensive for many of them. The Prime Minister said that this budget is typical of three key things: that it is a competitiveness budget, that it is a justice budget, that it is a social guarantee budget. A little bit about each of them. For competitiveness. It is a good thing that next year's draft budget envisages, however, even a slight reduction in labour taxes. For a number of companies, which are mostly large, exportable companies, it will be important support - not many, but... bringing the region closer to a common tax burden. Investment may also become a bit, a little more attractive. However, when we are talking about competitiveness, we must not forget about small tax regimes either. Latvia's economy is made up not only of big entrepreneurs; a large part of our employees work in very small tax regimes... under the micro-enterprises tax regime, are self-employed, providing self-employment and also for their family members. We also see from the draft budget that the current situation in several sectors has been analysed in rather detailed terms. And we see that the only sector that remains competitive even in times of crisis is construction. In this situation, we see that the government has, in fact, not focused on the development of the competitiveness of sectors through its budget, when it comes to sectors that will actually be the most difficult period to survive in winter. It is tourism, it is catering, it is transport. The most important investments, as we can see, are intended for construction on the part of the government, so that those sectors that are still in the process of further heating and perhaps even heating to some extent. There is not enough thought to support other areas that currently need export aid, which need support for investments, which need support for even wintering. I assume that, to a large extent, these issues are to be dealt with by the Recovery Fund... Financing the European Recovery and Stability Mechanism. And that is what we would also like to see, that, alongside the draft national budget, the Saeima would also offer the government's vision of how to invest these billions of euros. Will these be measures that will really enable the Latvian economy to recover in a relatively short period of time? In terms of competitiveness, we have to say that we see that the reforms that are currently being implemented in the government are actually being implemented without the vision of serious investment so that they can be implemented qualitatively. One reform that has just been formally carried out is administrative territorial reform. It was promised that, together with the redrawing of borders, there would also be a plan for major investments to strengthen municipalities and regions. Neither in the budget for next year nor in the budget plan for the next three years we see significant investments in the development of municipalities. Similarly, the reform of higher education... At the moment, it seems to focus on how to re-allocate power in educational institutions, how to ensure greater political expression there. But funding in the medium-term budget for quality higher education... for management change to take place... together with the vision of major investments in science and higher education... we do not see it all in the budget. For competitiveness. It is a pleasure that value added tax on fruit and vegetables will also be reduced next year and in the next three years. This will also be to some extent reflected in the crisis situation for local producers. We also believe that there are other areas where... both in order to be able to buy these products and leave more money for themselves in order to support local producers, and also in order to support local producers, this reduced VAT should be extended to food of primary importance - dairy products, meat, fish and egg products. These proposals will also come from us. I hope that the coalition partners will also support them. For justice. It is a pleasure that, at last, the promises are actually being fulfilled - the medical fees are being increased - and the teachers will not have to wait until September next year to be sure that they will actually be paid up as promised. But... However, we see that the government and the Saeima also live to some extent in an isolated world - isolated from what is happening on the street. When it comes to justice, it seems that there is one thing that should be taken into account: the public sector should show solidarity with the private sector, which is increasing the tax burden and which is indeed falling turnover at the moment. Private sector workers find it difficult to earn as much money as before, for many - even simply to live. In such a situation, it would seem logical for the public administration to carry out a fundamental review of the expenditure. The Prime Minister said that public administration will not reduce its expenditure to sustain consumption, but I think this is, well, wrong thinking. If the level of consumption is to be maintained only for public expenditure, increasing still, also during the crisis, the remuneration of officials, without fundamentally reviewing expenditure... We can see that only EUR 13 million is... revised expenditure... directed towards increasing the overall fiscal space - in the context of a situation in which a number of members of society have a situation where beaks can end together when we are trying to impose a huge tax burden in order to collect money in the public budget for new additional spending. It is about 80 million of small entrepreneurs next year, 140 million of small entrepreneurs next year. It seems to me that it would be only logical for the public administration also to review its expenditure in substance - as it is for us in a crisis situation. So, as it comes in a situation where we, in order to secure our daily expenses, borrow as a whole, increasing the budget deficit by 3.9 percent or 1.2 billion euros. We believe that this should have been done a long time ago, in fact already in March, when, as a result of the Covid-19 crisis, restrictions appeared, when the private sector also felt the most direct blow in itself. For its part, the public administration has given no signal to the public that we are ready to show solidarity. We live in principle like in such fat times. On social guarantees. It is right to think that social security should be increased for the population, because there is indeed a large proportion of the population in such difficult times as we have seen in the spring... They remained unemployed and did not have sufficient support and guarantees from the State. And the cut-off benefit system... with its complex administration, with a heavy allocation... they have also reached the pockets of the population, entrepreneurs at a late and insufficient level. And we saw that some more of the beneficiaries were later asked for them! If there had been a sufficient level of social contributions paid in advance, then of course this situation would have been simpler. But, colleagues, such measures - to increase the burden of charges - cannot be taken in times of crisis. That is not a counter-cyclical measure! In times of crisis, payments must be reduced, in times of crisis, the tax burden must be reduced. What you're doing right now is you're a light hand... rapidly raising the tax burden on those working in small regimes. This means that a large part of them will be unemployed. This means that a large part of them will be forced to look for work opportunities outside the country at the time of opening Latvia's borders. In its presentations, the Ministry of Finance does not even hesitate to show that more than 60,000 micro-enterprises in the tax regime, self-employed, those who... includes, to a large extent, workers in the creative industries... that they will be people who will be forced to look for work elsewhere. Sixty thousand people! In a situation where we are forecast by the Ministry of Finance to have an unemployment rate above 10.5 percent this year. In a situation where we only have a few thousand vacancies. In a situation where the Latvian Investment and Development Agency and the Ministry of Economics, with all their investments, they plan to strengthen the state image, export support, attract investment, well if thousands of jobs are to be created in the coming years. Where will those 60,000 people work? For the second 60 thousand, it is estimated that they will be those who will be able to re-register their hands lightly to the general regime. Colleagues! These efforts are as if to ensure social protection - they are actually such a Trojan horse for the people of Latvia. You are precisely those who currently have the lowest income with compulsory payment of social contributions... Whether or not income will be... You will be subtracting the monthly income of the most vulnerable! It cannot be called a form of social security. And I think it's such an irony that... Also part of colleagues are already promoting that you have a path - to go and register as low-income or poor persons, receiving benefits from a municipality or state budget. These are some of the things that we believe in the draft budget for next year and in the accompanying draft laws are not sufficiently thought out. Things that will have a significant impact on the lives of every Latvian citizen, especially those who work and live in regions. We cannot allow this to happen. We, with our proposals, with our advice, will come with our initiatives and hope that you will include... that you will listen to them that you will correct errors that, either because of ignorance or misunderstanding, are government on your own... He brought him to the Saeima. Let us count on us to work together until we have the second reading! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. There's also a record of Members. This has been a success. So the break is till 13:30. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U89	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft state budget 2021 and examination of related draft laws at first reading. We are continuing the debate. On behalf of the new Conservative Group - Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U90	Hello, dear colleagues! When looking at this budget and looking at it in general, we have to say that there is both good news and cause for various concerns. The good news is that, among other things... conservatively as a result of economic pressure... learning from the previous crisis, I would say, criminal mistakes... This is not what we would call a consolidation budget. However, it must be recognised that a major obstacle to making many necessary, evidence-based changes in this budget is and remains. This obstacle is political jealousy! Because only political envy can explain the “trainings” that, in the preparation of this budget, had to be done to leave as much money as possible on the hand of people, including to travel the range of differentiation of the differentiated and non-equitable minimum from 1200 euros to 1800 euros, while at the same time not raising the amount of the non-equitable minimum as already this year. The good news is that other parties are ready for a debate on raising the threshold for the coming year. So... so... Considering that the maximum limit for this differentiation range is being raised... Although it really leaves much more money on hand, it's not, in my opinion... Conservatives believe that the most effective solution is for people whose wages are closer to the minimum wage. And that is a problem that I call for more thought to be given to within the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes). Knowing (and it is very well understood by Conservatives!) that the company has recently been... Several wishes have also expressed an undoubted desire to raise taxes... first, for taxes to be levied and second, for revenue from taxes to be diverted towards the various social benefits... However, while maintaining the spirit of conservativeism, I call on the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister to reconsider whether the budgetary framework... then speak in the context of the budget, or a working group is still not unduly offended by the proposed regulation. Conservatives are well aware of the public's desire for social guarantees, but it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to create smart solutions, which are also fair. And at the same time, there is another good news that the executive has been able, unlike last year, to propose to Parliament a draft budget that is intended to meet Parliament's wishes and laws. It is good that the budget already includes funding for medical salaries, teachers and teachers. And it is also good that a minimum wage of EUR 500 will finally be introduced into life. Also, it will be essential to build a minimum pension, which will not be less than 200 euros at 35-year length of service... Even theoretically. And, of course, it is good that overall, the tax burden on labour is being reduced in the whole plane, using a 1 per cent reduction in the VSAOI as a whole. The disappointment in this budget could be that the question of family state benefits is postponed for the next year because... As we know... and Conservatives also believe that it is quite important for family state benefits to be raised to the extent accepted by the expert cooperation platform 'The Centre for Demographic Affairs' and... as well as the social partners, setting the allowance for children in real care. For one child - 25 euros, for two - 100 euros, for three - 225 euros, for four - 400 euros, for each subsequent child - 100 euros. And in this respect, I expect that even if the above issue is not resolved... But then, also in view of all the above, I hope to expect... and I expect that in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission this draft law... Both the draft budget and the accompanying draft laws, a whole series, will be significantly improved. Because it is clear that at second reading they can only be adopted if they have achieved at least some minimum quality that modern policies, policies based on evidence, could accept as acceptable to Parliament. That's briefly about this budget. Overall, at first reading, conceptually, this budget is to be supported, but, as I said, I expect a wide-ranging debate, a wide-ranging debate, many proposals from the opposition, from the position, from the committee responsible itself. And I expect that, at second reading, many of these proposals will also be voted in the budget and that, as a result, this budget law will come out of Parliament's new quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Those Members who have applied to speak on behalf of their political groups have spoken. The floor will then be given to Members in the order of reference. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U92	Hello, colleagues! This time I will talk about the country's budget for next year from the point of view of the traffic sector. As every budget has positive and negative features. And it is not different from the point of view of the traffic sector either. I'll start with the positive. Finally, the state will pay for the universal postal service in time, and that is good because - who wants to work if he does not know whether the remuneration will be?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In future, Latvijas Pasts will no longer have to worry about it. The government has given green light to the construction of the Ķekava bypass. And the design works will start next year. The Rail Baltica project continues its course, and persistent work on it leads to a result. The first works will start immediately at the Riga Central Railway Station, and behind the mountains there is no start of work at Riga Airport. Design works will take place throughout Rail Baltica track. This is the hope that we will once be fully integrated into a single Europe. However, there is also bad news. Diesel trains still have no money. But we hold on and look for solutions because we understand a situation where every moment the composition of diesel trains can leave the line. This would directly affect train movement towards Cesis and Daugavpils. Repair of public roads in the current situation... next year, compared to this year, there is a financial reduction of over EUR 140 million. The funding currently available for new contracts for next year is only €5.6 million for Latvia as a whole. Next year, the largest purchase object is on the Barkava-Lubane motorway, where it is planned to arrange the paved road. But we're holding on. We are looking for solutions and ways to keep the sector alive. In these circumstances, I think of an eastern politician saying: “There is no money, but you stay!” And this is precisely about the traffic sector. We're holding on. I care about the traffic. I'm in charge of this, so I'm fighting to the end. I may be naive, but I believe the Minister for Finance's promise of an additional EUR 100 million for the construction of roads. I'm waiting for you to be... Because - how do you not believe that the Prime Minister himself has said (I quote) that at this time "the money is as much as it has never been, and the Covid-19 crisis is very well placed". Or is it from time to time when a famous politician said: “How can you not be hungry?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Thank you for listening. I look forward to your understanding and support for the traffic sector.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U93	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U94	Dear colleagues, I would like to express my opinion on the priorities, challenges and risks of the state budget. I believe that the primary task of the legislator today is to immediately and fully pay back the debt to teachers and medical practitioners... as is always the case with the defence budget - without reservations. The country has a lot of commitments, a lot of commitments to be made, and there is the impact of Covid-19 on the economy, so in my view, public finances are not in a good situation. In addition, the government is again unduly offending the municipalities - the municipalities regularly have new functions, but the money is being taken away. Municipal budgets are being fulfilled, local governments have provisions; this means that money can also be taken from local governments. Therefore, there will be a redistribution of personal income tax, reducing the proportion of this tax in municipal budgets from the previous 80 per cent to 75 per cent. For municipalities this means lower revenue in the budget. Therefore, next year's forecasts for municipalities are sad. For example, the Liepaja budget in 2021 could be EUR 2.6 million less. It is also clear that there is now an hour of coalitions, ministries and the stars of their inhabitants: the distribution of European money. Part of this money does not have to be returned. Moreover, Prime Minister Kariņš said in public space that the deficit in the budgets could be covered by European Union funds. I think that it will not be so easy. Yes, the European Union will provide EUR 2.5 billion for economic recovery, but this money will only be available in certain areas. And there is still a need to adopt various regulations so that this funding can be used. And, as I predicted, this compensatory mechanism could actually only start operating in 2023. There is an impression that some budget-makers live in a bubble without problems. Perhaps they simply do not think about what is happening in our country. Therefore, I would like to remind budget authors that in Latvia child benefit is at a ridicule level. It is also unclear whether funds will be provided for late payments. When I read the draft budget, it is not clear to me how we will make it. I do not see a clear plan in the government, except for tax exercises. I think that as a result, there will be a lot of sad and angry people. It's sad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U95	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U96	Hello, honourable Members! Two weeks ago, I and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zakatistova, were invited to participate in television broadcasting for annual budget discussions. And the transmission manager asked us what title we would have, with a brief description of the budget, would both of us put on it. Mr Zakatistova referred to it as security for wages for public sector workers and the opportunity for change in the economy. However, I called this budget a correction of errors. And for such correction of mistakes, in my view, it was good... The Covid-19 crisis served. It has long been noticed that during the crisis, everything that is mature before the crisis comes into effect will eventually come into effect and will miss out on anything that should have gone a long time ago. The fight for five percent of GDP for healthcare has continued since 2013. The threshold of minimum income has been introduced only upon application of the Ombudsman to the Constitutional Court. It was a long time ago, but the suffering of the crisis pushed the country from its back. The crisis has also forced a return to an active fiscal policy, which should have been going on a long time ago. Social Democrats have four criteria for progress: increasing the wealth of society (in terms of per capita), equal distribution of wealth in society, quality of life and respect for human rights. To what extent will the new annual budget contribute to meeting these challenges? Without fiscal policy, the country, which actually voluntarily abandoned its monetary policy, left two other instruments in the state policy arsenal: tax policy and investment policy. On tax policy. In its recent information report on tax policy developments, the Ministry of Finance (I quote): “The fairness and simplicity of the tax system is an essential objective of tax policy.” ( End quoted) Is the tax system fair? In the pension system, once this income has already been taxed, pension capital is accumulated and taxed again. Does the tax system contribute to reducing social inequalities? Both the owner of the cafe and the person in Forbes magazine pay 20 percent tax on income distributed in dividends. Thus, the principle of progressivity applies to salaries, but does not apply to dividends. Is the tax system simple? It looks like a blanket made of different pieces of clothing. It is a tax of solidarity, a substrate of progressiveity, it is a regressive differential... The non-taxable minimum personal income tax and the still advanced personal income tax are present. The Legal Bureau of the Saeima indicates that after several amendments, the law “On Personal Income Tax” has become such that for the average person, the user of the law, it is very difficult to understand it. This year, with new amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax” beneficiaries of royalties get into the most indecent situation. It is not possible for non-tax advisors to understand the tax rules. The reform of the tax system remains one of the pillars of the budget, although it reduces revenue in municipal budgets, eliminates micro-enterprises and, with minimum social contributions, strikes the self-employed, the beneficiaries of royalties and draws them into the shadow economy or drives them out of the country, makes them go to emigrate. On investment policy. In addressing the Saeima, I have already referred to the World Bank's Growth Survey - a study on a strategy for sustainable growth and inclusive development. In order for the country to double its income over 10 years and reach the level of development typical of Europe's old democracies, it is necessary to ensure continuous growth: on average - seven per cent per year. One of the most important findings of the report is that such a rate of growth can be achieved if the total level of investment in the country reaches 25 per cent of gross domestic product each year, including private and public investment, and a further seven per cent of GDP is invested in education and healthcare. So, in total, 32 percent of gross domestic product. Meanwhile, the share of investment in Latvia, including education and health care, will be 22.7 percent in 2021, thus not 32, but less than 23 percent of GDP. The difference between the World Bank recommendation and the investment level in Latvia is nine percentage points. So Latvia needs a total of EUR 2 billion in investment worth EUR 700 million, so that the economy can run and grow to seven percent per year. Insufficient investment policy leads to insufficient budgetary revenue growth. How to increase investment in the Latvian economy? The current economic development policy is based on attracting private investment and is limited to macro-economic... macroeconomic stabilisation, in the hope that private money will enter the real economy. However, we can see that even if this is the case, this process is temporary and the increase in private investment is followed by a fall. In this context, the priority of investment policy should be to increase public investment. There are two reasons for this. First. Public investment is needed to boost domestic demand and motivate private investment. Secondly. Public funding is an indicator of the safety of sectoral investments and private investment is therefore always welcome to follow the public. The World Bank study recognises that in order to ensure a high level of total investment and attract private sector investment in all fast growing countries such as Latvia, public investment in public infrastructure should amount to about seven per cent of GDP each year. Meanwhile, Latvia's state investments are less than five percent next year. So my conclusion is as follows. Reforming the tax system at the heart of the budget is neither fair nor entrepreneurial, but mostly fiscal, extortionary. The public investment policy planned in the budget is not sufficient to generate the increase in the budget revenue needed for the growing economy. Such a budget cannot be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U97	Thank you. Name to Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U98	Dear Saeima! Colleagues! High Prime Minister! Ministers! I, a person with experience who has not been elected for the first time in the Saeima, am in the first situation that I cannot answer various questions during the meeting with the voters, whom I often, practically every week, visited Latgale. The question is, what is happening in Latvia? They have all heard in spring the Prime Minister say that money is now as much as ever. They've heard about the report at the Ministry of Finance... What was the help, how much money was spent on people. But nobody - no natural person, no legal person, no manager of the company... has not specifically said that they had received something. I'm sorry. And what happens now? Now we have heard from ministers again about how we... How good we will live next year. How many good words! What, though, is happening in real terms? It is realistic that in this budget, in this budget package, we cannot comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We want to make life worse for micro-enterprises, the self-employed... Those who could earn something to survive these difficult times. More than that. After the majority of the Saeima supported the law on territorial reform - instead of helping municipalities - their functions have not decreased. What's more, we want... Well, not us, but the majority of the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers want to take away the money from the municipalities. Of course, I cannot support this budget and I will ask my colleagues not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U99	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U100	I'm here, yeah. Dear colleagues, I think we could perhaps try to address our dear coalition Members in simple, understandable words so that it is really clear how this situation looks and how this government's vision of the state budget looks from the edge of the people to whom it is hoped... that they will pay them taxes and that those taxes will therefore also constitute this common benefit here. Imagine driving through a dark forest, through a storm in a horse coup where you carry a large elephant. You've gone through that storm, been very afraid, there was a great wind, there was a cold, and the horses also hung. And then you stopped the horses to rest a little, because the storm is running. You fed a little horses - some of them fattened, some of them not. And now you're going to feed the elephant, because the elephant is very hungry. Zilon needs a lot, a lot. And you see that there's a storm in front again, that's dark again and it'll probably be the same, maybe worse. And what are you doing now? You're those... some of those horses just shoot off or, I don't know, beat them to death. And you feed the elephant. And keep feeding the elephant, because the elephant needs a lot, the elephant needs to eat. This is exactly what your action now looks like after the first Covid-19 crisis, in this interval, and in the beginning of the second Covid-19 crisis. You're those horses, those little horses that're pulling you through... all of us with you through this difficult crisis, now you just have to get out of here. Why? There is absolutely no logic in it. You want to feed the elephant. The elephant is you, the elephant is airBaltic and all the other absolutely unnecessary luxury things you never want to give up - various studies, different information campaigns. What is your procurement list that you have drawn up as soon as you learned that a new Covid-19 money has arrived? Well, different construction projects and, as I said, research, advertising campaigns and everything else. But for those people, for those taxpayers who drew you through this storm, because you already eat from the taxpayers' money, just like all of us... I don't know why you don't love people so much. I really try to figure out where the border is where... At what point... You may open your eyes every four years and ride around the regions and talk to people, but then at some point shut down everything and you simply don't see them anymore, you don't hear them, you don't understand, you don't think everyone is cheating and you're not doing anything. What we have heard from the Prime Minister today and what we have heard from the Minister of Finance today is really a different dimension, another planet... what we heard. We cannot punish people for not earning a minimum wage. Listen, just listen to those words. You understand that these people who have spoken to us all do not really understand how small entrepreneurs live, from whom they feed and how they are now... the situation in which it is located. Most of them did not expect any benefits at all. They pulled out this whole wedding, this elephant. And now you say 'Thank you' to them. The elephant is fed. They need more. On the whole of that, of course, you, who could take off all the horses, of course, also get the municipalities involved because the municipalities also pulled all this... this terrible time, this Covid-19 time in which... you are aware that you didn't really know how. Nobody knew how. But avenge, I don't know, shoot those who helped you, on whose shoulders everything... the whole situation was pulled out... There's no logic. There's no logic absolutely. For in the municipalities you now say: “You will be able to borrow. We will rob you, but you will be able to borrow.” And what do you tell the self-employed? ‘ If you cannot earn, you can go and humiliate in the social service.” Is it really a budget for humanity? Is that really humanity? What you offer people, go and tell... participate in certain programmes. As if these people were like some violent people who need to adjust their behaviour. Just because a man can't earn as much as you have set that line. Is that humanity?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And you are proud that at last you have partially executed the law. You were enough to be reminded twice that the law must be fulfilled, and you have finally begun to do it halfway through. And now you are proud of it, and you call it humanity? No, it's not humanity. This is your duty. Not so good, but yet you have started to do something. But you don't have to be proud of it. You must be ashamed of the situation in which you put people, the same people who saved you, because you already know nothing. I will, of course, call on my fellow Members not to support this budget, because you also do not understand, dear coalition colleagues whom you have brought to the Saeima. You continue to argue about what should be in this budget and what should be corrected. You have no vision of the future. You continue to share something... Some positions, some kind of argument... This means, of course, that your work is also not excellent and inconsistent. This is not a vision for the future. It is simply a budget for supporting the shadow economy, which has been drawn up by the Šopholics, who are thinking only of luxury things, about the feeding of elephants. I call for this budget not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U101	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U102	Hello, colleagues! Thank you, of course, to both the Prime Minister and all ministers for their extensive accounts for the 2021 budget. However, I expected more self-criticism. And without waiting for the same criticism, I would like to introduce a diagnosis for the draft state budget for 2021. This diagnosis consists of three points. The first point. Preserving healthcare system failure. Second. Judgment of death on small business in the country. Third. Simulation of the judgment of the Constitutional Court on the implementation of guaranteed minimum income. Now, in more detail and more detail than each of the points. First. Preservation of healthcare failure. I'll start with a quote from a statement that doesn't belong to me. This is a statement by Mrs Cipule, the head of the NMPD, that we are in a pre-apocalypse situation and, if the number of Covid-19 patients, the number of hospital patients will increase, it will be a collapse. What could be the basis for this statement? I will quote another state institution, namely the State Audit Office: Checks carried out by the State Audit Office (in summer this year) have illuminated the weaknesses of the civil protection system - firstly, there has been no state civil protection plan in force since 2017; secondly, since 1 April 2020 there is no valid nomenclature of state material reserves; whereas funding for the restoration of state material reserves of the health restaurant was last granted in 2018. In his letter to the Prime Minister, the Auditor General stressed that due to a long-standing neglect to planning and financing state material reserves, in the event of an emergency, the health service had no safety cushion to rely on. Unfortunately, more clarity about the amount of resources needed did not arise until the end of the emergency situation. Let me say more: this clarity and plan, and visions of reserves, of strategic reserves, of the health care system are not yet available. This shall be indicated as follows: First. The recent statement from the medical ethics committee that, with a certain number of Covid-19 patients, they will be sorted according to the principle of who to die and who to save. Second. A total lack of influenza vaccines in the country was observed. Currently, people are promising that they might have these vaccines sometime in December. At this point, there are only a few family doctors who are offering these vaccines to their customers at the flat. And there was no scheduled procurement of this vaccine by the Ministry of Health at least this year, and neither is it planned for next year. Third. Missing mask, protective equipment. This is not only about health care; it is mainly about the "rearing" of the Ministry of Welfare, as at present, in most municipalities there is no such mask for social workers, but for social workers' customers who are most at risk of being infected by members of our society. There have been cases of old-fashioned, very low-income people just dug in the trash to get out of them a protective mask so that they are not punished with a fine of EUR 50. In this case, the country cannot ethically allow the situation... punish their citizens for not providing them with protective equipment during an emergency. And now it is precisely about the emergency. And it's going to be the second point of a small business death sentence. There are two factors here. First. Changes in tax policy. For that we were here today, at the Saeima House, there was a picket - for the fact that we were very consistent... with the word “we” I mean the government and the ruling coalition... simply destroys small business in Latvia as a class. We're going to a micro- and low-income... and the consistent destruction of patent users’ business. And one of the steps in this direction is... hasn't been taken... has been done now... Now that we have the second wave of epidemics, when the number of infected people is increasing again and more than 250 people per day and the rate of disease is higher than four percent, the government does not declare an emergency situation in the country. What does that mean? This means that all the compensatory mechanisms that were activated in spring of this year - i.e. cut-off benefits, compensation for specific sectors affected by restrictions imposed by the government - are not activated. We're not doing anything. We say: “This is not a matter of government. Live for yourself as you know! Please dance remotely! Interest groups - remote!’ I will not even talk about what is happening now with our children and with families with children. I will only talk about the fact that in the near future there will be no small business in Latvia, because we will extort all people from micro-enterprises and self-employed people. They're going to be unemployed. Unemployment. There is still no vision of reducing unemployment. I am thinking of reducing structural unemployment. We still have no policy on reducing regional unemployment and re-training people, because we do not have a vision of the development of Latvian industries. And that's the story of the same competitiveness that the Prime Minister spoke about. Is it for this competitiveness... Without this beautiful word, do we have a vision of what sectors we will develop, in which sectors will we invest the four billion people expect to use? That is the most common question. People ask, where are those four billion of Europe. Where are we going to put them? Maybe we've already put it, because we can see how... the extent to which the external debt of the country has increased. This has already increased in 2019. We do not yet know the figures for this year, we do not know what it will be at the end of 2021, because the amount named by the Prime Minister... It does not yet have actual approval. And the third point. It is about imitation of execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court - about guaranteed minimum income. Of course, thank you very much to the Minister for Welfare, Mrs Petravičas, for... she said that her Ministry had developed a methodologically sound and socio-economic approach to raising the thresholds for minimum income - including social security benefits and minimum public pensions... the method. But tell me, please, did the Constitutional Court in its judgment say something similar? Did the Constitutional Court not indicate that the guaranteed minimum income and minimum income thresholds should be linked to the consumption basket? Because it is the socio-economic reality that the consumer basket is. And tell me, please, do we really, by increasing the guaranteed minimum income from EUR 64 to EUR 109, want to say that this amount can survive in Latvia? What can survive with a minimum pension? Now... Today there were also such strange, controversial figures: the Minister said - EUR 136, Mr Feldman said - EUR 200. Neither with 136 euro nor with 200 euro can survive in Latvia. And the Minister has rightly pointed out that it is precisely because we are increasing... even on this tiny number... GM, we are imposing this burden - to whom? State? No, no! We are imposing it on municipalities that have taken millions with one hand. With the other hand, let's... Please! Thanks to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, you will now have to increase the allowances for apartments. You will have more needy, deprived people because the thresholds are increasing. Since the diagnosis of these three components is quite serious to vote in favour of this budget. It is necessary to correct this budget so that - and I quote the welfare ministers again - Latvia can regard itself as a socially responsible country. So that we can really say: “This is the budget in which a person is in the first plan. Here we take care of you.” Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U103	Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U104	Dear colleagues, ‘ Solidarily" and "fair" - these are the words that most often sounded both at the time the budget was drawn up and today on the part of government representatives. What does this mean in the context of the 2021 budget? The government forced municipalities to be joint and several in search of the missing money and reduced the proportion of personal income tax... the local authorities reduced their funding by EUR 90 million. At the same time, municipalities are required to carry out a number of tasks that will require considerable financial resources – at least 50 million (as shown by the calculations of municipalities). There will have to be a minimum wage, a guaranteed minimum income, an increase in housing benefits... and others. What, then, does the government do in a spirit of solidarity? Of the 28 ministries and direct public administrations, 20 have a significant increase in funding. Even without taking into account the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Health (the public agreement reached on the increase in the remuneration of teachers and medical staff), this approach is generally not understandable. What else does the government do in solidarity? Travel salaries for senior officials and individual institutions. And it's not too soon to arrange the remuneration system in the public administration. Preferably, each year in the budget package one of the institutions increases the level of remuneration as a matter of urgency, without assessing how this will affect the efficiency of the work, how the result of the work will be assessed, and without listening to recommendations of the State Audit Office. But in all this story, Latgale municipalities are the most popular, because the biggest budget reduction compared to 2020 will be precisely for them. On the other hand, there cannot be a very significant increase in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. And rightly, the question arises whether, in the case of the Ministry of Defence, there are no larger plans, how... Only one landfill in relation to the territory of Latgale that has already been completely depopulated from the population. I have managed the development of municipal budgets several times and now I also look at what municipalities could do to find funding for all the basic functions and to hope for some development projects and also implement voluntary initiatives important to the particular municipality. The scene is far from satisfying. In some municipalities, even when their institutions and even their thoughts are eliminated, it will not be possible to cover the reduction. Perhaps someone thinks that he might not keep infrastructure, reduce staff salaries and numbers, close schools and kindergartens, spend funds on environmental and cultural events or reduce social budgets. These will be the choices that local authorities will have to make if such a state budget is adopted. Of course, if local authorities had an independent part of development in the budget structure, new investment projects could not be realised. But at least Latgale municipalities implemented such projects from loan funds, and now it is the government that recommends doing so for basic functions. Is that fair? No, it's not. Not against municipalities, not against the population of the region. And more. I hope that the responsible ministry has also evaluated and will follow along as the local government in the first half of the year... until the election of new municipalities... They'll spend their money. In addition, in the context of Covid-19, the majority of municipal budget resources of 2021 will be spent and the new municipalities in the new territories will start their new life with a huge amount of work and without funding. And then the dream of strong, financially independent and economically strong municipalities will be dreamed of throughout the territory of Latvia. Thank you, colleagues. And I look forward to a reasonable approach during the budget review.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U105	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U106	Hello, dear colleagues! I also listened carefully to the Prime Minister and Ministers. In practice, none of these government representatives mentioned a very important matter - regional development - which is linked to reducing disparities. In fact, it is already a chronic disease for Latvia - from year to year every government is practically not addressing this issue. I very much expected that the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development, Mr Puce, would also take the floor, because the reform actually... the law is adopted. There were promises, also financial promises, that municipalities would be supported when... Next year they will unite. And the budget would practically be this mechanism... they should reflect those promises. Unfortunately, it is not possible to see the EUR 300 million promised for local authorities and others... We have received a letter from the Latvian Municipal Union. I got to know it too, I read it. It is true to Mrs Goldberga that Latgale municipalities are indeed very large losers in the draft budget for next year. The reduction is more than four percent - six or seven percent. The Latvian Municipal Union on behalf of Latgale municipalities asks that this reduction should not exceed four percent. This requires 9.2 million. I think that this proposal - 9.2 million - could be a compromise for the Latgale region. Mr Kariņš also mentioned the possibility of an increase in debt. Perhaps this funding might be linked to this issue - to an increase in debt. This, or otherwise, should be resolved because of regional disparities... Then, when the share of small entrepreneurs in Latgale will decrease, where small entrepreneurs, producers are very high, then Latgale will be even more remote in terms of development, standard of living from other regions and capital. In this respect, I would like to reiterate the situation relating to the presence of foreign, foreign, firms in the real estate market, especially in the Latgale border. I've ever told you here, from the trunk, that, for example, in Ludza district, almost 40 percent of real estate - land, forest - does not belong to citizens, Zilupe - even more, almost half already. Let us now imagine that, in this country, the people who live in these forests, citizens, will not be built houses, infrastructure objects. What are we going to? In fact, this budget could, in fact, lead to even further sales, because the real estate market also describes the difference - the difference in standard of living. I would also like to see in this budget the means of enabling pre-emption rights if... If these foreign companies sell these properties, then the state should have pre-emption rights and funds to buy these forests and land. This is our national wealth and, as I said, also national security, especially in the eastern border. More. I would like to touch on something like party financing in terms of the budget. I have also said on this point that the executive power when drafting decisions in parliamentary commissions... Ministry representation... actually... I feel... I thought not for me alone... and that is also the fact that the excessive impact on the preparation of draft decisions is directly the execution of the institutions, the ministries... This appropriation is intended to cover If the parties to whom this funding has now been received - I mean essentially coalition parties here - could indeed - just like abroad - hire experts and set up bodies dealing with very specific issues in all these sectors (either initially, even in the financial sphere, education, health), where parties' experts would represent Members and provide advice and proposals (not ministerial officials!) Then... When an issue is being dealt with, it is often the case that Members actually have to end the matter because there is no coordination between any representative of the ministry... a specific option. What's that? This is already, in fact, a direct intervention by the executive institutions. It is often felt that Members are such voting mechanisms, machines raise their hands... the fairy tale “for”... press the button ‘for’ or ‘for’. That must not be the case. I would, however, call on the parties - let us say the conservative parties represented - to think about this, too, obviously there will be new parties. If we continue in such a way that the executive bodies will have a very direct impact on the development of draft decisions... the drafting of laws, it's the adoption of laws, then I think we'll get to another... very... over-centralized administration with countless regulations, inspectors, inspectors, as many in our country already have. And the unit that actually... Let's say, the institutions of the ministries, which... in fact can be drawn as an inverse triangle - up there are different types of commanders, decision-makers, analysts, but down there is no who is doing practical work. This applies, for example, even to the police. There are no police in the fields who do a practical job. However, there are many analytical services and chapters. And that's it in all areas... in many areas. Of course, to the next, to the second, reading my proposals (they will obviously be formulated in writing) I would ask also to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U107	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U108	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. Our task, when adopting this budget in a crisis situation, is to increase the resilience of society and to prevent the development potential of the country from falling. I am far from repeating the cliché that every crisis is an opportunity. The tragedy is for someone, because the disease robbed close to someone who had collapsed their business, and many had to adapt to quite rapid changes in working conditions, increasing both psychological and physiological pressures. These people include doctors and educators, but especially children's parents and working parents, who alone raise children. The age of Covid-19 is a huge challenge for them. That is why I am pleased that this budget provides 183 million medical doctors with the promise of this Saeima, as well as that we plan to continue gradually increasing teachers' salaries. The remuneration of assistants, which is essential for families with children with disabilities or with special needs, will also increase. However, there is still much work to be done both by the Ministry of Education and Science and by the Ministry of Welfare, so that every child and teenager, regardless of social circumstances, health status and potential problems, such as teen dependence, receive quality support for development, good education and access to life. A lot more money is spent on inefficient networks of educational institutions and too little on teachers' assistants, social educators and other professionals, whose support is absolutely necessary to achieve inclusive education objectives. It is also necessary to continue increasing funding for academic staff, including universities, so that Latvia can break the so-called middle income trap with the development of science and higher education in the future. I am convinced that we also need continuous innovation in schools. Latvia also needs independent schools established by educational enthusiasts that develop their programmes and seek to find a sensitive approach for every child. Therefore, I am pleased that the Ministry of Education and Science has agreed to amend the amendments for the second reading and no longer envisages excluding schools founded by non-governmental organisations, which are public benefit organisations, from municipal funding. I am convinced that, following the administrative territorial reform, new, strong and larger municipalities will be able to support the efforts of NGO schools in their territory to improve the quality of education, but... Responding also to children's specific needs and talents. It is a mission for schools set up by public benefit organisations and it is necessary for all of us. With a more sensitive, nuanced approach to the challenges of education and welfare, we can achieve much even in this crisis. I call for support for the draft budget at first reading and for work to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U109	Thank you. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U110	Hello, colleagues! How well-considered and justified is the decision of the Government to reduce revenue in municipal budget by changing the distribution of the proportion of personal income tax in favour of the state? Both the government and the Saeima have taken a number of decisions that will significantly increase municipal spending next year. The guaranteed minimum income level will be raised, the minimum wage will be increased, the salary of pre-school teachers will be increased. Let us not forget that in 2021, it will be necessary to implement the administrative territorial reform that will require expenditure. With this budget, the government is offering us a reduction in municipal income and, at the same time, an increase in their expenditure. Of course, it is to be welcomed that the government finally fulfills its promises and increases the remuneration of educators and doctors. But it is proposed to do so at the expense of regional development. Because changes in the division of proportions will affect all municipalities, but the most affected will be Latgale, where the reduction is planned to be the largest. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that Latvia is not only Riga and Pierīga; people living outside Riga, residents of our country, also live outside Riga. They deserve their work both to receive a decent salary and to live in a clean environment with a normal infrastructure, to receive all the necessary services, to enjoy a quality culture, and to engage in sports. By supporting the government's proposed reduction in revenue for municipalities, we are contributing to an even greater difference in living standards between capital and regions. Colleagues! Most of you represent regions. So you can’t have problems with municipalities and people living there. That is why I call upon you, when you decide on a government proposal to change the proportion of personal income tax in favour of the state, thus reducing municipal revenue, to remember those people in the regions who have trusted you and gave you their voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U111	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U112	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear Members, As Head of the Social and Labour Commission, I can indeed be happy and pleased with the draft budget for 2021. Because, as we have all heard many times, the field of medicine and well-being is precisely the sectors for which this increase is the highest. First of all, I would like to touch a little on the medical sector. I have also contacted patients' organisations, in particular Baiba Ziemelis, who is the head of the network for coordination of patients' organisations in Latvia, and she asked to thank all Members and ministers for the increase in medical wages. In other words, patients also support the increase in medical wages, because patients understand that without doctors, without nurses, without the total number of patients, it will, of course, not be possible for us to have the same kind of medicine as in Western European countries. And, of course, I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to the Latvian Association of Young Doctors and to note its achievements at this time. As you know, they also won the annual medical award... and Kārlis Rācens, Louise Auzins, Ieva Glaser, Juris Jansons, Krista Bronas, Arthur Šilovas and Signe Šetler - all these doctors who also stood up for medicine... an increase in the medical budget as such. And young doctors, as well as students - the fifth, sixth course and others - are very happy that we as a parliament, as a government give this hope so that they can stay in work in Latvia. Yesterday I had a meeting with 100 young cardiologists and infectologists, and their speech and knowledge really was amazing about both Covid-19 and cardiology. The fact that they will remain working in Latvia, because we... because I really met several, and I also spoke. They know that there will be this supplement to the medical fees, and they are really happy and happy about it. As well as nurses... representatives of the sister association. The Head of the Latvian Sisters Association Dita Raiska is also pleased and pleased. I, too, want to place particular emphasis on the NMPD and the leader Lien Cipuli. NMPD is the first in fact that is currently struggling with both all other acute cases of medicine and Covid-19 infection. So I really want to say that we... The term ‘budget’ should not be used for medical wages only if. That is what patients' organisations themselves say: it really is for everyone. This is also the case for patients. And great joy, too... Thanks, of course, to the judgments of the Constitutional Court, there is a significant increase both for assistants and the minimum old-age pension is increased, and for people with disabilities. What we are actively doing and will continue to do in the Commission is that we also have a specific service against this money. To make us grow to the patient... also quality, so that the National Health Service integrates into its... In our contracts, too, the quality requirements that we set in order to improve the health of the patient. And we will also ask the Ministry of Welfare for us not only to have money but also to have a service against citizens - both what Mrs Golubeva mentioned about children from different risk groups, services for people with disabilities, children with disabilities, families who could work and should leave their children in work... that this service may exist. I would also like to emphasise one thing very much: the internal resources of the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the National Health Service must also be further strengthened so that our country's health management is even better. I am very pleased to support this budget and call on the other Members, colleagues, to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U113	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U114	Hello, honourable Members! Well, Mr Kariņš, thank you for your lively story about Latvia's national budget for next year. You mentioned competitiveness and justice. But I want to ask you a question right away. Well, why don't you... If we have justice, we have competitiveness, then why did small entrepreneurs stand here today in the turn of the Saeima and show their displeasure about the state budget and the increase in taxes? But, as you also said, next year we will have a minimum wage of EUR 500... minimum. Congratulations to you on this success, but on the other hand I ask the question: what is better - is it, for example, to receive a minimum wage of 180 lats in 2004 or now to receive EUR 500 per month? Because, for example, in the same year you could enter the supermarket and buy 10 lats full of... full basket, then today you can only do it for 100 euros... at best. That is the answer. We are promised every year that economic growth will increase by three percent or six seven percent. And maybe this is true, but how much has inflation increased? Very little is talking about this. Inflation goes faster than the economy grows and... This can be seen because we were unable to reach that level, in 2008, before the global crisis. There is still no clarity about medical reforms and medical insurance - whether there will be or not. Because applying to doctors today is a very big problem due to a lack of specialists. The Minister for Finance, Mr Reira, also mentioned here the cut-off benefits that justice is, but that is not always the case. When we decided in April, May, in June, on the cost of idles, the WELFARE pointed out very many times that, unfortunately, there is very little justice there. Unfortunately, too... When we talk about wages, that there is an increase at the end of at least some education sector - it is very welcome, people have already waited a lot. But the same thing... dissatisfied with existing salaries in the State Probation Service, and attracting any new employees is not possible. So that they take new staff... So they also need to train them for six months, and then they leave. When the competition was launched... When they find out what the amount of the salary will be, they do not even want to take part in the competition at once. And it is also an important sector working with living people. We also had meetings with road policemen, with those who ride motorcycles on the highway, then they are not only at risk, but they are also... New guys drive at speed... to catch a wrongdoer's car. And they say, if I'm like a young man... If you have 26 years, for example, and only EUR 600, how can you support your family? It's almost impossible... It's just a little bit of a beak, a beak to survive. And who wants to live with you? Ask the women too! And in the same State Probation Service, the budget was maintained in the same year of 2020, not even any change. Inflation, as I said, goes very fast up every year. Mrs Šuplinska also mentioned here how well the Ministry of Education and Science is working, especially the sport sector, the Head of our Sub-Commission for Sport, where... we can very rarely gather together for the Sub-Commission for Sport in general. Well, exceptionally, yesterday we had that remote meeting. At the same time, unfortunately, the Minister for Education and Science has forgotten to submit a proposal to increase the budget for the sport sector. And that is why today there is a shortage of 2.7 million euros. The money is meant for high performance sports, because we are preparing for the Olympic Games in Tokyo, which next year will be, we also expect Latvia to bring some Olympic medals. And in Tokyo, the flag of Latvia can also rise. This is very important because the sport sector is always at the highest level and we are always proud of our success in sport... Unfortunately, in the same sector of the Ministry of Education and Science, there will also be a big drop in sports - from 5 million to 727 thousand only (in this year and in the next two years) 627 thousand EUR 957. Well, we don't want to build anything. Why? But this Covid-19 time shows exactly that we need a training center, a sports training centre where athletes can live, eat, relax and practice, as is the case in other countries. We don't have one in Latvia. We just build training bases, but where is the whole complex - with medicine, with a catering process, with a renewal process? Unfortunately, we do not. But we need to do it, think... think about it because sport has always been and will be. And all countries are also trying to have the highest results in the sport sector. That's also health. And also a very positive impact on the next generation. We see that we needed in May last year, although both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior are reducing the regulations for those who want to apply in both our army and the police because they cannot be enforced. What does that point to? That we're... We are weaker and weaker. And in the same sports class... Neither is it understandable to the end with our sports schools that there is a ban on doing something at the moment. But, well, I also call on the Ministry of Education and Science, together with the Ministry of Health, to assess this whole situation. Each sport has its own specific characteristics, and it is necessary to approach each sport, each sports school separately, before prohibiting all sports schools immediately by a single decision, so that they themselves assess the risk and express their views. Then we will be at least safe, and we will not sing at that time, especially sports... When a person sports, the body also fights inside and does not make a person sick if the body does not fight, it does not fight, remains weak. It's been a long time from experience. So I call for any ban to be taken seriously. Well, as you know, today, we also had 251 cases of the Covid-19 who had a new illness, and SASCAN sent a letter to Prime Minister Kariņš today about the need to declare an emergency situation. Why is that? Many people may be opposed to it, but now Karin began his speech that we are living in an emergency situation. Well, Mr. Kariņš, you yourself said the first sentence in your speech that we are in an emergency situation. Then we need to declare their emergency, we need to start fighting, not expect us to have five hundred people sick every day. Good luck for next year's budget, but unfortunately I cannot support the national budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U115	The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U116	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The national budget has been prepared and submitted for our evaluation. First of all, I would like to say that their support for further consideration. There are, however, some issues that I would like to raise... to whom I would like to draw your attention. I would like to talk about human rights, which must be respected when preparing and approving the national budget. Article 93 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia provides: “The right of everyone to life is protected by the law.” Thus, the budget law must also provide for funding to ensure this right to life, including sufficient funding for medical wages, health care and medicines in the health budget. I would like to say a great deal of thanks to our Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķelis, who has achieved that the budget provides additional financial resources for the remuneration of medical staff. However, Latvia still lacks funding for compensated and innovative medicines used elsewhere in the world and in European countries for more than 10 years. Therefore, I strongly argued for additional funding for the treatment of patients with oncology. The publications show that there are currently more than 80 new medicines in the world that are used to treat patients with oncology, but Latvia is able to use only part of them because there is no money to buy. According to data from 2019, 21 types of medicines are available for patients with oncology in Latvia for state budget funds, 61 in Lithuania, 52 in Estonia. It is very important to understand that the use of innovative medicines, including targeted therapy, for oncology therapy also requires funding for the detection of biomarkers, as this is the basis and starting point for an individual treatment approach and why the doctor's consilium prescribes certain compensatory medicines. At present, patients who have taken tissue samples go to their own moor where the samples are stored and are subjected to laboratory examinations themselves. In turn, doctors will ask pharmaceutical companies to pay for the detection of these markers, because there is no public funding for this. If biomarkers, or cell mutation type, cannot be detected, appropriate therapy cannot be given. I would add that at one point pharmacy may not pay for these investigations either. The latest type of treatment - target and immunotherapy - provides the highest return. For example, 40 percent of patients live in melanoma with targeted and immunotherapy. In the past, it was only 10 percent when it was treated with the classics. In order to make new and promising medicines more accessible to patients in Latvia, it is essential to carry out reforms in the oncology sector, providing for both greater funding for the industry as a whole and more active inclusion of new medicines in the system of compensated medicines. If we are talking about the Covid-19 pandemic, we are organising working groups and looking for the best solutions to stop the disease, then we must also act equally in the case of other diseases. Oncology’s glooming statistics show that every year there are 11.5,000 new people. Some 80,000 people die each year, but six thousand die. I therefore call for the financial resources to be diverted from excise duty on tobacco, biomarkers and medicinal products to be reimbursed. The second key issue is family support. I am pleased that it has finally been decided to increase child benefits, but it is only about 2022. At a time when, due to the Covid-19, many companies are closing down or out of work, many people remain unemployed, and families with children would have substantial support for these benefits. I call for the deadline for raising child benefits to be considered and set next year. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as early as March last year, the Group on Development/About! encouraged fiscally neutral amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance to allow parents who, after having been born, are allowed to work up to half-time, maintaining 100 per cent of the childcare allowance. There are no significant objections to this proposal, but they are still circulating in the Saeima but are not included in regulatory acts. Many mothers have called and asked me if it had come into force. But I regret to say that it has been delayed for a year and a half for unknown reasons. I call on Members to think more about the survival of families in the Covid-19 crisis and not only. I would also like to say to Minister for Welfare Ramona Petraviča that she is working on supporting families with children with disabilities and that various benefits have been increased as far as possible. I call for further efforts to support people with disabilities in the future by further deinstitutionalisation, enabling people to live in their families and receive the necessary services in day centres and similar institutions. I would also like to thank the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Juris Pucem, for his hard work on environmental and climate issues, as well as the well-designed budgets for continuing the administrative territorial reform. I call for support for the prepared draft state budget, as well as for the additional clarifications proposed to be taken into account and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U117	Thank you. Would Dace Rukšāne-Schipčinska have had seven minutes of debate? Mrs. Schimpchinsk? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Rukšāne-Ščipčinska: “Yes, it would be enough. Yes.’ ) Yes, thank you. Then the name to Member Dace Rukšāne-Šchipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U118	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The national budget for 2021 is only at first reading, so I think it is important and appropriate to point out things that should be improved for second reading. And one of these is definitely the adjustment of the royalty tax regime. It is clear that social protection for those working under the royalties regime is an important topic and even in the very acute Covid-19 crisis, but the proposals to ensure this should be discussed with the cultural sector - artists and authors working under the regime. Unfortunately, such a discussion was launched only after the artist's public campaign "The Wall of Ununderstanding". And I very much hope that this discussion will continue so that the Ministry of Finance, together with the Ministry of Culture for second reading, will propose an improved version of the reform, because it is unacceptable for artists who often live on the poverty line to fall dramatically when they are driven out of the field of art. I agree that in Latvia many abuse the royalty tax regime, but a sieve that distinguishes them from artists and authors must be created by experts of the Ministry of Finance and not by artists. This is only the first reading, and it is still to be said that the representatives of the creative sectors do not suffer from the new reform. But what I have heard from Mr Puntulis is a little more hope. I hope that his words on eligible expenditure up to 80 per cent will be implemented. But in general, I support the budget and call on my colleagues to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U119	Thank you. Mr. Tutin, would you have five minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Tutin: “Yes, it will be enough.” ) The name of Member John Tutinas.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U120	Hello, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” provides that in 2021 the share of state and municipal natural resources tax contribution will be 100 per cent of the state and zero per cent of municipal budgets. At present, this proportion is respectively 60 to 40 per cent. The municipalities will have no additional means to arrange their environmental objects, rivers, lake beds and shores and also to organise traditional spring cleaning stations. The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” also provides that the Government plans to change the distribution of income tax from current 20 per cent of state and 80 per cent of municipal budgets to 25 per cent and 75 per cent respectively. And that means that, with 2021, municipal budgets will have a very significant reduction. I would like to draw your attention: in parallel to what is happening today, almost in silence - Covid-19 and the adoption of the state budget, without Members and citizens' knowledge - the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development is preparing for the reform of municipal waste management regions. And an information report “On development of municipal waste management regions in Latvia after 2020” has been prepared, which is planned to be examined as the case of the Cabinet of Ministers and to adopt the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is planned to set up five municipal waste management regions to replace 10 municipal waste management regions in three years from 2021 to 2024. It would not yet be dramatic, but at the same time it is planned to identify a single landfill site in each region, where waste from the whole region will be disposed of after 31 December 2023. And this is a cause for concern, because people, businesses and organisations are paying for the production of waste. By setting up five landfill sites for the current 10 sites, which have already invested a great deal of EUR million in public, municipal and European funds, the main losers will be citizens, as the cost of collecting, transporting and disposing of the waste will increase and pay, that is to say, the rate of waste management will certainly increase very, very significantly. As an example - waste from Jēkabpils, Aizkraukle, Kārsava, Ludza, Zilupe and other regions will have to be taken to Daugavpils district, which is 110 kilometres away than it is today. The plan will set out an additional EUR million to be invested in conservation and closure of five landfill sites. It would be wasteful for public and municipal budgets. And completely unfair and cynical towards our people, both in Latgale, Vidzeme, Kurzeme and Zemgale. I call not to support the draft laws “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” and “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” and call on colleagues, especially those representing the position, to draw attention to the parallel activities of government related to the reform of municipal waste management regions proposed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, moving from 10 waste management regions to five waste management regions. Colleagues, with one hand you will raise slightly the amount of social needs of citizens, but with the other you will take them all back from citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U121	Colleagues! Time for half an hour break. Members shall be required to be registered. It's been a success. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U122	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U123	Hello, colleagues! The draft budget for 2021 provides important support for our media space. At a time when we cannot meet, our common media space offers a common presence for society. At a time when public safety and health depend on reliable information, the quality bar for journalism, which is maintained by our public media, is vital. And at a time when the information space is full of disinformation and false information, we need to strengthen our capacity to monitor the media space and provide quality, verified information instead of disinformation. This draft budget will also allow the long-established process to be completed - public media with 1 January will come out of the advertising market. The budget includes full financial compensation for the loss of advertising revenue. This will allow public media not to narrow down the missing advertising revenue, but to maintain quality performance and offer new programmes instead of advertising. Public media will no longer compete in the advertising market with commercial ones, thus opening up new opportunities for commercial media as well. The draft budget also provides for the extension of aid to commercial media in the form of grants. The Covid-19 crisis has hit commercial media hard, and when the media pull their belts together, the first one that suffers is quality content. Support programmes will help to ensure media diversity and quality. These are positive and supportive steps, but as in each sector, there is no way to cover all the needs. In the near future, this Saeima will see the draft law “Law on Public Electronic Media and Their Governance” at third reading. Once it comes into force, it will have to find the means to revitalise the new system. The media market is also still fragile. Although support for the media is provided in the budget, appropriate new forms of support will still need to be sought in order to preserve the diversity of the media in Latvia. Media researcher Anda Rožukalne published this week data from an existing study on our citizens who believe in disinformation. These data are worthy of reflection: 11 percent of the respondents believe that those protective devices we call for to be used to protect themselves and the public against the Covid-19 virus are, in fact, not protecting the human being but harming human health. Eleven percent! And the third, 33 percent, considers the Covid-19 statistics provided by the government to be misleading. Here we can see the impact of circulating, unverified and misleading information in the networks and also understand the dangers of the situation when quality, tested, independent and reliable information disappears in our information space. The draft budget for 2021 will strengthen our media space. I call for this to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U124	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U125	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues and everyone who follows this sitting! There are, of course, places and things worth highlighting in this budget, which the Prime Minister has also highlighted as positive, and many previous speakers have also highlighted as positive. However, there are enough things in this budget that are very negative and will have a very negative impact on Latvia's overall situation in these quite rather not very positive circumstances. This minus is so much that unfortunately neither I nor my group colleagues... we will not be able to support this budget at first reading, even though it is... This is only a conceptual vote. I will focus on some of the things that have been said by previous speakers. Well, for example, this here is a reduction in inequality. And here I have to say... At Development/About! I would like to appeal to my fellow Members, particularly Mr Pavļuta, who so praised her ministers, health ministers, for how she is fighting and that health workers will have this supplement to pay and the increase in wages. All this is very beautiful, but I absolutely cannot agree, and I cannot understand how Mrs. Viņķele could even start using rhetoric to put his doctors against patients. And the patient section you have absolutely not been dealing with in this budget. Instead, you chose to confrontation medical workers with patients, and I think it was very regrettable to approach them in this way - not to solve the problem, but to confrontation large sections of society with each other. The same is reflected in other places. If we also look at these very pompous ideas about solidarity tax - let us reduce inequality, reduce solidarity tax and increase all these social contributions for those working in special tax regimes. What are you talking about reducing inequalities in this section at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In my opinion, this will not only decrease, but it will be very different – it will increase inequality in Latvian society. And this inequality, if we look at the regional context... Here the previous speakers have also applied much to this state of Latgale. Latgale status is not the only one; there are other conditions as well. And that, for example, in Kurzeme, Zemgale... The far away from Riga is the municipality, the administrative territory, because this income level is much lower, so it is also reflected in the municipal income and the total income of the region, which is absolutely not respected in this budget. All these good things that you are calling for are being done at the expense of the regions. If we talk about the rise in teachers' salaries, about the increase in medical salaries, then at the same time it is done at the expense of the regions, and in this case we have understood the municipalities what that means for them. Other than this, it is one kindergarten that will not be built, elsewhere, it is the entire social budget, elsewhere, it is the amount of holidays that will have to be reduced for the population of regions where these conditions are most difficult. Challenges in regions that will be associated with the Covid-19... We cannot predict how all this will evolve, but we can already see that it is in the regions that the municipalities are the most struggling with this problem, and they are also on the first front line: they provide both social assistance and help hospitals. These hospitals currently play a very important role in this... the Covid-19 crisis. No one can deny that. And I think that the total budget for municipalities is being reduced... If we're looking at 70 sites... In 70 areas, the budget reduction will be less than four percent... more than four per cent, which, by the nature of the administrative territorial reform, is the strong message that we will now have strong local authorities... You can combine all Latgale in one large municipality in that territory, but in essence this deficit in the budget, which will be critical. This will jeopardise the implementation of the budgetary functions of the basic framework, including the provision of the basic framework in large cities, where any new political initiatives are abandoned, where development projects are abandoned, where all the functions of the basic framework are abandoned completely. It is less than four million to provide social benefit, education system in one particular municipality, which is a large city of Latgale. minus four million, and you call it normal?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is reducing inequality? Such a policy will lead to the exit of these people from the regions, unemployment will increase and these people will simply not have other opportunities to leave Latvia. And that will be the result of this policy. In this case, I believe that this budget does not really mean how to increase revenue, in substance, to increase revenue through economic instruments. It is meant to take from those who cannot protect themselves. Take from those who are the most vulnerable - micro-entrepreneurs, those working in the patent fee regime, regional authorities, who are absolutely out of hearing at the moment, about which they were simply yelling. In my opinion, such a policy will lead to an even greater fragmentation of society and will have to work very long to address this whole situation. The next one I wanted to add. With regard to these "positive decisions" - the budget revenue. We are looking at where the revenue base of that budget has disappeared. One is, of course, we can tell about what is happening - the Covid-19 crisis, and everything is very bad. At the same time, we see how large companies like airBaltic feed, and today we are already hearing that airBaltic will still have to invest. At the same time, we are totally disloyal, without any compromises, towards small entrepreneurs. I think we should be pleased at this point that these small businesses are not customers of the social budget, which will certainly become such after this budget. At the same time, we see that those companies that have been flagships, those that have brought money into the budget, where there has always been a discussion, how much we will then leave this company to develop, have become giving companies. And the most striking example is “Latvian Railways” and the transit business sector as a whole. We see that already this year we gave credit to the Ventspils port, which is also, in my opinion, completely false. It only shows how catastrophic the Minister of Transport actually works. And the head of government has to think about whether such a minister can even be led by such a ministry. We see absolutely dubious procurement in the area of public transport, which has been suspended for the moment, but on the other hand, we see that these companies... Still the Ministry of Transport is looking for ways to continue cooperation with these entrepreneurs. Half a billion public expenditure will require this. And many other things I'm going to touch. Similarly, one thing that I would like to agree with Mrs Viņķele is that our Prime Minister is involved in managing the government and managing the crisis only with a new restriction... the definition of new types of restrictions, but by nature does not lead to this crisis... management, looking at the whole. All in all, absolutely nothing happens. We do not see any real solutions for the development of our tourism industry, for support. We just see that one place after the other is closing. Entrepreneurs from a wide range of sectors turn to the parliamentary factions in search of support. Is that normal? I think that is not normal. It just shows that our Prime Minister is just an observer... as an observer from the edge. He is not involved in this process, and all these statements coming from outside are statements from the observer. It seems that it is some kind of political commentator, not the Prime Minister. And such an approach is also unacceptable. I call on the Prime Minister to finally take the lead in his government. And here the Minister for Health is absolutely right. In the field of education, this arrogance coming from the Minister... That's what teachers are doing right now. The arrogance has led to the fact that the trade union of education and science workers in Latvia is going to decide precisely because of arrogance as the prime minister's resignation. More contact points need to be searched... not to think of how to despise one profession or another. The same applies to the economic commitments made above. What we want to see in the government as a whole - the vision of how the economy will develop. There are now only empty words. Nothing is currently being done to promote the increase in budget revenue so that we can look at how to promote the economy as a whole. We are also looking at value added tax, we are looking at personal income tax, where serious changes will have to be made in order to find some sort of additional funds for the same... promoting access to health services and to local authorities, particularly the regions currently most affected. And, of course, I call on you not to continue this discussion with the small business... the imposition of an additional tax burden on small operators and on all special schemes for taxpayers. At this time, at a time of economic recession, when there is absolutely no clarity about the future, I think that none - neither I nor any of you following this sitting - has any certainty about how the economy will look in three months' time, how it will look in half a year. Small entrepreneurs feel it first. Big companies... We can see that the government is wearing a shirt, saving it right away - 250, more than ten million, as necessary, gives it without any business plans. We saw this in the case of “Latvian Railways”. And I think it is unacceptable to manage these processes in this way. We see OIC fighters who, by nature, do not fight OIC, but find 80 million in the budget from Latvia... from “ Latvenergo” by... just compensates for these electricity bills... But by nature, you can't suffer these OIC recipient stations to which... which should be weighed where there are obvious irregularities, self-consumption. Mr. Zarins talked about this in the end of the OIC commission, where it was obvious that the biggest... the vast majority of frauds with these self-consumptions. Can we really not come to a situation where a licence will finally be withdrawn? No, at the same time, we take the Latvenergo dividends, which could have been diverted for various purposes, and instead we simply compensate them by creating a fiction that we are fighting OIC. In essence, OIC lives peacefully further and has nothing to do with it... there is no change in these businesses. So, colleagues, I am calling for work to be done and, in essence, to think about how we can help our economy - not just by fighting micro-entrepreneurs, not just by fighting the regions. I think the most vulnerable people are carrying this budget on their shoulders. And the promises you are happy with in the area of health - we see this side effect with patients... for the help of patients, we also see enforcement of judgments of the Constitutional Court, which has not been done to the end. Colleagues, how can such a budget be supported? We will come forward with proposals from the opposition in any of these areas and will offer our vision of where to find a source. Remember that these fiscal discipline constraints, too, are not currently in force, and perhaps it is worth increasing the budget deficit in some places, in order to improve some kind of situation, especially in regions, especially small businesses. To improve their position, so that these people do not leave Latvia, so that they do not go into the shadow economy, so that they do not become clients of the social budget. I think it would be better for society as a whole and for us all. We don't have to fight Covid-19 with restrictions. Our task is to make sure that people are also economically able to overcome this Covid-19 crisis in substance. Thank you, colleagues. I call for this budget not to be conceptually supported, for the government to recast it, for the opposition's arguments to be heard, and for it to be followed up, if it is to receive support at first reading, for the second reading to consider, in substance, the opposition proposals, whatever mode we are working on. This budget was accompanied by protests from the Ministry of Finance (near around the corner) to the Saeima from the zero reading. Today, the budget was accompanied by protests. People had come from Ludza, people had come from Ventspils, from many, many regions, from Tukums, Dobele, Jelgava. There was indeed a very large number of people who, despite these restrictions, found time, and we found a way to ensure safe conditions for this protest campaign. Thank you all for that. I call on you to listen. These are our people, Latvia, against whom you are currently addressing. You don't have to get off those who are most difficult, but still feed those who are actually all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U126	The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U127	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Live viewers and those protesting today at the Saeima! The Covid-19 crisis clearly shows that in order to have access to social guarantees for working people, at least minimum social contributions must be made. It protects economically active people from shocks and also ensures justice in society. At present, only two thirds of workers pay social contributions from an amount equal to or greater than the minimum wage. One third of social security is less than or not at all. The creation of a tax reform that requires every national worker, regardless of the form of activity chosen, to make at least the minimum social contributions and, as a result, to receive at least the minimum social guarantees, is most welcome, necessary and feasible. But what looks good on paper does not always look as beautiful in life. This time it happened to those who work in alternative tax regimes as self-employed workers receiving royalties as micro-taxes or patent-payers. Many of them are employees in the creative industries. Changes in the tax system of alternative regimes should be supported, as this is a way towards the social protection of artists. Some of the creators are well-performing and they will not have problems paying taxes, but those that are not would not be set aside at a financial disadvantage. The minimum social contributions of 170 euros for persons with low income or no income in some months of the following year are disproportionately high. This will not make the lives of these people and their families better. Most likely part will fall into the grey zone, another part will give up any professional activity at all. In the long term, the issue of royalty and non-payment of social contributions is a problem for the creators themselves. This problem has been kept in the oven for years. Governments and responsible ministers are very reluctant to engage in discussions and to find a way out. The reason for this is that there are no ideal solutions to satisfy everyone, but a path to get out of this situation is very much needed. I am therefore in favour of this first step, which is led by the desire to adequately provide the beneficiaries of royalties and in other alternative regimes. The draft law is currently in the Saeima and I will vote in favour of it today at first reading. At the same time, I would like to speak for the simplification and regularisation of small tax regimes, so that it is not a person who serves the tax system, but a person's tax system. Until the second reading, it is possible to submit proposals and corrections, therefore, I invite the responsible ministries to speak to the industry and representative non-governmental organisations once again and to seek the best common solution by developing compensatory mechanisms for improving the position of authors, paying special attention to those groups of authors whose real income does not reach the national minimum level. The low tax burden needs to be adjusted to the current situation and to the various forms of employment so that the less well provided do not become entirely poor, so that the tax payable does not exceed what is actually earned. It is essential that the changes are humanely tolerated, gradual, easily and intelligible. The representatives of the creative sectors must not suffer from the new reform, and errors must therefore be corrected before the final reading. The responsible ministries must solve outstanding issues, which have been pointed out by both the President of Latvia, the representatives of industry and the Prime Minister. A clear answer must be given to the questions that happen if a person earns less than 170 euros a month and if the income is not regular. However, I call on those colleagues who do not support the budget to reflect on this step, to vote in favour and to work on improving the budget before the second reading. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention, and we continue to work on improving the budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U128	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U129	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, I'll start with the positive. This budget is fundamentally different from the product we stood against a year ago. I am happy today, too, that several... Many members of the coalition also speak, speaking. I hope that they also listen carefully to what their colleagues in the opposition say. Perhaps today, however, we will have a real budget debate. This draft budget is generally positive in at least four areas. First. Next year, however, the Health Care Financing Law on Medical Wages will be implemented. With all due respect! It is hard to imagine a rule of law in which the government itself does not comply with the law. And now we have one such law less. Secondly. In the draft budget, we see a generally reasonable and also responsible budget policy. As a result of the pandemic, we have a temporary fall in GDP. So we keep part of the expenditure and we have a budget deficit. At the same time, a gradual reduction in the deficit and the stabilisation of external debt below 60 per cent of gross domestic product is envisaged in the medium term. So far everything is right. Thirdly. Reduction of labour taxes - one percentage point out of 35 percentage points. And here we are talking only about social tax. Very symbolic, but thank you at least for this small step in the right direction. Fourth. Increase in guaranteed minimum income level benefits and other related benefits. Of course, this can only be seen positively. Dear colleagues, If I were a coalition Member, I would be diplomatic and would also finish my speech here. Well, of course, if only I were not a Member of the New Conservative Party, because today our UK colleagues are creating rather good competition for opposition members. When you look into this, colleagues... If we look into it, it's not so pink. Here were some signs of this budget - whether it is a pandemic budget, a stimulus budget, a humane budget. In my assessment, this is a budget for desperate decisions. It would therefore be more efficient to call it a budget of despair. The Prime Minister tried hard in his speech, but it was also unable to hide his attitude to the so - called medical wage law. And that is absolutely understandable. The Law on Medical Wages was not an initiative of Karin's government, and I think it would never be. It was an initiative by some Members, which many other colleagues also supported. And it was obvious that the need to comply with this law had completely disrupted government plans for at least two years, if not for the entire parliamentary term. So, Prime Minister, to comply with this law - that is, of course, the success and victory of your government. A decision of principle, worthy of respect. But, Prime Minister, is this not the victory of Pirras, because the methods used by your government show despair - to subtract five percent of the income from personal income tax? Imagine, Prime Minister, if, of course, you're still listening to me... Imagine if the European Union would decide to subtract five per cent of personal income tax revenues from your government and our country, so to speak, for Europe's needs, your response would be concrete - what would it be? Maybe then you would understand how the local authorities react... Well, the same person who lives with us in the same country. Then go on. Your government actually decided to destroy favourable tax conditions for small businesses and start-ups. And then, of course, other professions dependent on the state budget are also neglected - teachers, university teachers, police officers, firemen and so on. All those who fail. Then, a year and a half ago, when some Members tabled a proposal specifically to raise medical fees. Well, and then, of course, colleagues who remain with other unfulfilled laws - the University Law, the Law on Scientific Activities? Let's go. On the macro-economics and the heating of the economy. So the government understands that in this situation money needs to be borrowed, that's good. But does the government understand how to put this borrowed money where it works? For example, colleagues will allocate more than 380 million euro to airBaltic, mainly for the purchase of new aircraft, which means that this money will work in Hamburg in the near future, because it is in Hamburg, colleagues, that Airbus aircraft are being produced. On the other hand, if we are talking about cut-off benefits, precisely what would work in our country in the short term, then we can see only a complete departure from the government last year and absolutely wrong conclusions, where the government is completely engaged in the meaning and essence of the social security system and in what comes about or does not arise from it. For competitiveness, colleagues. As I said, we understand that this step is symbolic: one percentage point out of 35 percentage points. And that's just social tax, colleagues. Will this move raise international competitiveness? Well, this is a very exaggerated statement. I think that everyone who understands something in the economy understands it very well. In addition, we remember that in 2016, the government of the time lifted social tax by exactly one percentage point. So within five years, we've been... We are actually standing on the ground, colleagues. For justice. I, my fellow Members, would perhaps ask a rhetorical question: would the government propose to raise the so-called GMI and social benefits in the absence of a judgment of the Constitutional Court? I would just like to point out that more than EUR 70 million of social benefits... expenditure is precisely due to this decision of the Constitutional Court and this process is initiated by the Ombudsman Juris Jansons, not by the Minister of Welfare or any other member of the Government. It should also be noted that the Government has also failed to fully comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, because I will quote here the words of the Legal Bureau, which were submitted at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) when we examined these draft laws - that the Government allows, I quote, “a fundamental mistake and that there will be further legal proceedings”, because the Government did not create a so-called minimum subsistence basket. And this cart, its methodology needs to be reviewed once a year according to the decision of the Constitutional Court, not every three years, as the government proposes. Dear colleagues, This is a big budget for response. A desperate response budget. From this draft budget... Do we all have a clear vision of where we are going? Where to? At least one year ago, the head of government offered us, told us that we were heading towards the Nordic countries. It goes without saying that the government would like to spend as much as it spends on the welfare, social affairs, health and so on of the Nordic people. But how can we achieve this level of opportunity to spend as much as the Nordic countries spend? I'm talking about income. If we, colleagues, compare ourselves to a Nordic country like Sweden, then Sweden had a per capita gross domestic product of almost USD 52 000 last year. For Latvia it was only almost 18 thousand US dollars. Consequently, the difference is three times. These are the opportunities that give us a chance, colleagues, to spend more, and somehow we hear only about the desire to spend more, but we hear nothing about how to achieve this income level, in other words about the economy. So, what does this draft budget say to us at all about the economy, about the opportunities for them to spend some money in the future at all? What are the government's priorities - the capital repairs of the financial system? Well, that's... We can see that methods like... are used here. Well, even in 1917 the Bolsheviks would feel that they can do so at all. These methods will destroy the reputation of our country that foreign capital, at least from the east, I think it will not yet appear here for several years. But well, I understand that the government and the coalition believe that, at least on its part, capital is not needed at all and will not be needed. Let's go. Transit, the so-called bridge. Well, we also see everyone in transit. It's obviously so bad there that Government Minister Linhait even quiets down at all. At the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, we saw a presentation on 30 slides, which did not say anything about it. For transit - no words! And that must be the first minister over the last 30 years, who has chosen absolutely nothing to do. But it is clear that your government does not need transit either. Let's go. Tourism. Well, it is clear that everything in this sector has stopped during the pandemic, but it seems that it is the government that is ready to write off this sector, because the industry is ready to go out on the streets. And the government has not been able and, as we can see from this draft budget, does not offer any real, significant decision for this sector either. Well, except, of course, airBaltic or, I'm sorry, more precisely except Airbus. Industry. The government had at least one job to do to boost the competitiveness of industry - at least to reduce the cost of industrial electricity. We're talking about the same OIC that... I think you're all tired of this combination of letters. However, colleagues, the government adopts a solution to this OIC as if it were a reduction, but this solution is contrary to the government's own declaration, as it proposes to finance this OIC from another source in substance. And the government declaration made it clear that it was not possible to do so. Let's go. Business and small business. The government for the following year, for the following years, proposes to actually destroy the favourable tax treatment. It shows a deep misunderstanding about it... on the nature and role of entrepreneurship in the economy. And it will also have negative long-term consequences for the economy as a whole. So what the government offers is all that in place. You can, of course, infinitely repeat those magical words - 'innovation', 'high added value' and so on - but that will not help. Green course? I'll remind you of the previous green course, colleagues. It's not that far history. Look at what is happening to the biofuel industry, which was originally created with subsidies and then actually eliminated. Only air heating. I fear that, in your naivety, you believe that this green course will now be a huge opportunity for the Latvian economy. But what it is, rather, is that one part of the world says that we have developed technologies and products in this green area, and now we will force you to buy its technologies and products. And that, I think, is what will happen. What is being done next? United image of the Minister for Economic Affairs? That's what? This will increase exports? What has failed “Magnetic Latvia”? Is it the same for Latvia now - to come up with some magical name that we... Who will make us export? This one, my colleagues, is a Russian story. I don't know if many know about the Jemel, who sits, so to say, ok pechi and want everything to happen under Shchuchjeme's shit, after Mom's hotney. Well, these successful single image...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U130	Mr Dombrovskis, I remind you that Saeima sittings in Latvia are held in the state language.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U131	Yeah. Jemel, who sits on the oven and wants everything to happen to his wishes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U133	These quests for a unified image well remind me of this Russian fairy tale. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I believe that the government must give people a vision, a hope. To say that, yes, it is difficult today and we have to make some very difficult decisions, but tomorrow it will be better because we are investing there and there today, and this is for us... it will give us tomorrow, the other day, and it will give us an opportunity to help people raise their income... But the main message of this draft budget is, in fact, that we are still holding something today. It is better not to think about what will be tomorrow, because we have borrowed so much money today - two billion - so much that we will not be able to borrow more for a long time. We're even going to have to consolidate... and to pull the belts together. And we will still receive a couple of billions of euros from the European Union, as if it were a gift, but in fact it is not a gift. It's actually a hidden loan. So for a couple of years, we're going to have enough, but then we don't know what's going to be there. This, unfortunately, is the message from next year's budget. So, yeah, we... With colleagues from the opposition, we will make proposals, a number of proposals. And depending on the extent to which the coalition colleagues will be prepared to debate and engage seriously, it will also be up to us to support this second reading or not. So far, in advance of our first reading, we cannot support this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U134	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U135	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, When I listened to the ministers' speeches, presentations, so much was said about health and social issues. In general, all of this left such a gloomy attitude. It reminds me of hospice time - shelters for hopeless sick people - meeting, how many blankets, slippers and nightdresses, how many casks we will have to buy next year. Excuse me, is this all about competitiveness? In the Nordic countries (as we call them without all kinds of irony, the Prime Minister) there is, however, a highly developed industry. Swedes, Finns can produce objects, valuable things. The Latvian industry also has the capacity and great potential, but why does none of you, ministers, coalition politicians, even tell us about the industrial situation in this time of crisis? Unfortunately, our virtual discussion today was not honoured by the presence of the Minister for Economic Affairs. I do not believe, however, that Mr Wittenberg has such a complicated schedule; he is so busy that the Minister did not have 15 minutes of free time for Members and for a nation making money. I would be very interested to know what measures the Ministry of Economics intends to take, for example, in relation to the rapid decline in demand for forest products. I would also like to know what is happening in the mechanical engineering sector, which is closely linked to the giants of Western European cars, which are also approaching the peak of the crisis. The Ministry of Economy is also responsible for housing policy in Latvia. Last week I attended the Providus Centre seminar where OECD study data on Latvian dwellings were played. According to this data, about a quarter of housing in Latvia has no population at all. They're ruining. At the same time, a large number of Latvian people live in overcrowded houses, which are in an emergency state. And if, as Mr Kariņš said, we are trying to become a normal Nordic country, then in the area of housing, we are at the level of half a century's limitation. Our apartments look like a Finnish director Aki Kaurismeki in black comedys. In the same depressive landscape of Finland in the 1970s, Latvian ports and roads appear and are located. I understand why the Saeima has not been addressed today by the Minister of Transport. I would, of course, be very grateful if Tālis Linkaitis had told us about transit prospects in Latvia or that we will all be driving electric cars soon on two local roads, which are planned to be renovated in 2021. Of course, for the people of Madona to be successful, but I think that this choice of priorities is apt. Because, let's say, in Perry, where there's a heavy load on heavy machines, it's not all right with bypasses. And when trucks drive through the capital, they actually pollute Riga and cause damage to its infrastructure. It seems to me that this budget is not intended to give up our money in time. It only drives Latvia into debt. That is why I will not vote in favour of this budget and call for it to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U136	The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U137	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, I thank all those who have touched on today's debate... talking about administrative territorial reform. This merely shows that we have done the right and important work in adopting this law. Together with the vote of the Saeima on administrative territorial reform, the responsibility of local authorities in the new administrative territories is to start joint work. This reform offers opportunities. This is an opportunity for the country not only to strengthen the economy and reduce existing inequalities in the regions by improving the quality of services for citizens, but also the basis for other major reforms in areas where they have been needed for a long time. Local governments, on the other hand, are an opportunity for development and growth in the interests of all citizens, taking responsibility. Latvia will have municipalities - and already exists - with strong development centres. They will have a sufficient tax base for the provision of municipal services such as education, social care services and others. The municipalities will also be strong enough to attract investment and create new, well-paid jobs. In order to better achieve these objectives, a number of forms of support are foreseen, with the 2021 budget providing the means for successful implementation of the reform. It is also planned to continue the municipal loan programme for strengthening the economy. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, as one of the most important priorities of the budget for 2021, directs the implementation of the administrative territorial reform. And for the implementation of the administrative territorial reform, this will be €7.6 million, which is a targeted grant to cover the costs of setting up new municipalities. On municipal loans speaking. This is a period of great uncertainty, colleagues, not only in Latvia, but in the world as a whole. At the moment we are facing a situation where economic shocks await us, and we are already facing the negative impact of Covid-19 on our economy and therefore on the well-being of Latvian citizens in general. The responsibility of politicians at national level, as well as local government politicians at this time and in these circumstances, must be balanced decisions: projects should be developed and supported, where we can see a rapid contribution to the economy. This means new jobs, support for entrepreneurs, access to the living environment and better services for citizens. Next year, too, state aid programmes are planned to continue, and I would like to point out, among other things, that the total increase in local governments' borrowings for the following year is more than EUR 250 million, including an increase of EUR 150 million in loans for municipal investment projects, other than those co-financed by European Union funds and other foreign financial assistance. These funds will, for example, allow the implementation of various investment projects to mitigate and prevent the impact of the emergency situation in relation to the prevalence of Covid-19, as well as the construction of new pre-school establishments or the extension of existing kindergartens, thereby reducing kindergarten rows. Other types of investment projects in educational institutions will also be able to be developed to ensure the performance of sustainable education functions. And these are just a few of the directions in which municipalities will be able to work using this significant amount of finance next year. Yes, we are now in a challenging situation, but with cooperation and joint work we will be able to successfully develop our municipalities, regions and therefore the country as a whole. I, my fellow Members, call for support for the budget for next year at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U138	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U139	Dear colleagues, This draft budget has come into being in the face of a global emergency and of a deep and very multifaceted crisis. As a result, when it comes to the draft budget, the main issue is not - good or bad - it is, but it is, or does not, meet the requirements of the crisis and the instruments chosen to address these challenges are, effectively or less effective. The answer should be yes, no. As far as the draft budget is concerned, naturally, yes, there is a fearless increase in the budget deficit, which is to ensure social security cushion, including by raising salaries for several categories - which is beyond doubt 'yes'. But there are also a number of "no" in this draft budget. I won't name everyone, but I'd like to go to three. The first 'no' is tax policy. In general, in times of crisis, any country is usually trying to reduce the tax burden - by reducing taxes as such - because it increases competitiveness on the one hand and helps to put itself in the best position to compete with other countries on the other - it also ensures that the taxes to be collected are collected in full. Does the proposed solution meet these objectives? Yes, no, but more - no, for let us say, there are things that should perhaps have been introduced long ago - which is a progressive income tax. Instead, two surrogates were introduced in the reform process: the progressive non-taxable minimum and the solidarity tax, which perhaps worked more or less well at that point, but they are not working in a crisis situation. Progressive revenue tax also tackles the crisis, because those sectors that cannot generate revenue, together with... This tax burden is being reduced. Those who work and earn, they pay more, and there are these sectors too. Consequently, the solution proposed in the government's programme, when it comes to taxation, is not effective and has not been fully considered. The second moment is investment policy, which is also very closely linked to what I have begun to do. In the light of what the ministers and the Prime Minister said today, there is a particularly high degree of clarity as to what investment policy should be, neither in the budget nor in the government. So, let's not say, a case like complaints and brines about the fact that here's the funds for building roads, even though the road industry... The construction sector also works quite effectively in times of crisis. On investment policy, we also criticise the situation with public and non-public buildings - what the situation is there. We have, by the way, an installation from the European Union for a green Europe, and therefore renovation of buildings is one of the priority objectives, including in the area of investment. As another direction that also relates to ecology and our current problems, recycling and so on is and remains. But the overall picture of what investment policy should be, unfortunately, does not offer this draft budget. And the third. Today there was a lot of talk about municipalities, about the place of municipal budgets... the location of municipalities within the scope of this budget. It has to be said that any investment in a recovery project, and in general everything that is being done - everything is done not in any virtual environment, but in municipalities and local authorities. So, talking about what... which sectors will work and which sectors will develop, which investment projects will be, and undoubtedly the main word here is linked to local authorities. The crisis situation here is even deeper, because despite what Mr Pleis said about the beautiful future of the reformed municipalities, it is the next year when the old municipalities will work for half a year and the new municipalities will work for half a year, and the new municipalities must start all their work from a white page, including the budget design. Consequently, the question was not answered, because the reduction in the revenue share of municipalities and the increase in lending opportunities is not the solution. It is just a simulation of the solution, because each new municipality, which will be set up after the elections, is a new project, a national project, where all ministries, the Cabinet of Ministers in general, must help municipalities. This list can be continued, but I think the next question that follows is whether these things can be improved by the second reading. The answer will be no more than yes. For it would really be right if, when drafting the budget, not only the forces of the coalition parties were involved, but also the opposition, because we live in one country and for all of us, whether he is in the coalition party or in the opposition, are close to the interests of our country and our people. Consequently, any proposal that comes not during the budget discussion but during the preparation of the budget is vital. Personally, I'm not sure what went on all of us today... in all the speeches, in all the speeches, that this will be taken into account, because, however, the draft budget is largely a product of officials and not a product of politicians - I will vote against this draft budget at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U140	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner–Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U141	Hello, colleagues! I'm just... four small messages. First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister Kariņš for his report and also for his way in which he has led the country in this very difficult year. Thank you very much. And thank you also for your communication with the public. Secondly. I would like to express my pleasure with the report by the Minister for Culture, Naura Puntulis. Here I see that he will speak after me, but I was pleased to hear that the Minister of Culture admitted that he had not communicated enough. Yes, indeed, tax reform, especially on social security, I think it is one... one mistake - one year of crisis - to talk about some new kind of tax, even if it were any group - small, medium-sized or creative group. And I just want to remind you that during the Straujuma Government in 2015, a law of this kind was also adopted in the budget package, which was approved by the Saeima, but was nevertheless abolished at the last minute. It wasn't a crisis... And the government was afraid, see. This time, I think, it is one very big mistake on the part of the government: no one is talking about additional taxes during the crisis year. But if the Minister of Culture is successful in communicating with the sector, I think that it will be possible and other ministers will also improve their communication with the public and industry. And, thirdly, I would like to highlight, however, a very important point: it would be a pleasure if it were to be in the protocol. For 20 years, the Saeima failed to reach our public media out of the advertising market, and with the adoption of the new Public Electronic Media Law and its governance law, on which the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs and the Sub-Commission... I think this is a very important event for the entire media family. And we are very important as a society, because the public media without advertising - we have entered Europe very seriously through this kind of improvement. There's a budget of 8.3 million out of the advertising market. And our task, as the Saeima, is to strengthen public media and achieve such funding, so that we can go hand in hand with the funding of the public media that is available in the Baltic States. And in general, we still have to work on it. And fourthly, I would like to thank the opposition for its constructive criticism. I think that constructive criticism of the financial and budgetary debate is always very important. The criticism of the party that has so far been a party to power is a source of confusion. And in fact, I think it was not necessary to take part in this debate, as we have just heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U142	Name for Minister of Culture Naurim Puntulis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U143	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Colleagues! Again. So I would have some remarks, referring to what Commissioner Rukšāne-Šchipčinska, Mrs Bluke and also Mrs Beitnere-Le Galla have said. The lack of discussion. The fact that no agreement has been reached so far does not mean that there has been no discussion. There has been a lot of debate, but obviously there is enough debate when agreement is finally reached. And I am very sure that agreement will be reached by second reading. Again. It is not true that the discussions started only after the creation of this wall of incomprehension. The debates are really taking place regularly, they are still taking place, and these actions, these walls, the initiators of the day or two before the campaigns were at the negotiating table in the Ministry of Culture, but the discussions began one month after I took office, so last summer, when I called on private producers in the negotiating table and we all agreed that this difficult route, which Mrs Bluke has already mentioned, should finally be started, and this question of royalties and taxes should be resolved. At that moment... At that time, a transaction account, or a business account of this economic activity, which is absolutely simple, socially secure and joint, seemed to be a distant and unattainable future. Here it is. We have had and created a transaction account in the year before, which was so much awaited by the whole industry at this 25 per cent rate of turnover. But... However, I stress that there is still a parallel and there will be an opportunity for the beneficiaries of royalties to register as self-employed persons, which, by the way, is also mandatory for all non-employed beneficiaries of the general tax scheme if their monthly income reaches the national minimum wage. And there is also, there is still and there will be an opportunity to justify expenditure and write off up to 80 percent. Since this transaction account we have introduced is an innovation, but it does not mean that this opportunity to register as a self-employed person would have disappeared somewhere and this opportunity to write off expenditure would have been lost somewhere. Nevertheless, discussions with industry and the Ministry of Finance continue and, as I have already promised, we will make improvements and we will be able to reach agreement on the national budget at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U144	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U145	Hello, colleagues! Hello, the whole of Latvian society! I will not criticise the budget today, although probably part of my audience expects me to do so. First of all, I would like to commend and say that today, in my opinion, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis was the most excellent speech on the budget. And that's what it is. But I want to turn to all the aunts of Mirdza who are watching this parliamentary live, who are listening to the budget debate. And I invite all the aunts of Mirdza to remember the times when there was such a show “Vremja”. There were politicians at that time too...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U146	Mr Gobzem, parliamentary sittings are still held in national language.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U147	Yeah, that show had a name, Mrs. Mourniece. You also lived at that time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U148	It can also be translated. It can also be translated.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U149	And... And at that time this show (it was in “Panorama” place) showed how well the government works, what we have the achievements that we have so far not done in life. And the same thing is happening today, under today's circumstances. In circumstances where our gross domestic product is one of the most competitive in Europe. Romania is ahead of us. It's at a time when 170 beds in the hospital mean... close to the collapse of the entire health care system. It is at a time when, throughout the summer, a minister has spent no time discusing and has done nothing and is now threatening with new restrictions and the fact that our healthcare system cannot withstand. This is at a time when our entrepreneurs, the smallest of the entrepreneurs, are actually receiving the least aid and the richest are receiving the most expensive purchases. It is at a time when in fact in the country - and I am calling you, Aunts of Flash, to look at it realistic! - the company is divided into two parts: close together, which is a public sector and which, in fact, does not suffer in any way in this crisis, and the private sector, which generates taxes that are suffering, to which immediately... tax increases in general next year. It is at a time when we have been promised “3 × 500” for two years, and it is at a time when we are promised everything in a row from the abolition of the OIC. We are basically where we were in the Soviet plant, that we have power, which is great for ourselves. Logically, the power itself is great, as it is all right, but I invite everyone to look at their wallet, look at the crowd of their relatives who are still leaving, because it is probably not true that you are being told that there are many money and that this is a record budget. Last year, too, said, by the way, that it was a record budget. Last year they said that there would be a lot of money and that everyone would have enough, and that we had never lived so little. And then well, there was a crisis. The crisis came, but what are we doing? Did you hear in this budget and at least one of the speeches you heard today, Aunts of Mirdza, how does the Republic of Latvia deserve? No, you have heard praises for lending us, so that my children and your grandchildren may have unrelentless debts. And it's not an achievement to borrow. You don't need a lot of mind in there. There's no need for much knowledge. There is no need, in fact, because borrowing in the European Union is elementary. But we and our future generations will have to repay this irreversibly debt at a time when the budget does not have any position in which we will earn. Where are we going to make? Finance? After the repair of capital, which last year was great, it was the greatest repair. Where'd it go? That you account all closes. One after the other. Or it is the achievement that we are now twice as much on the ground as I understand that this defence budget will be 2.4 per cent of GDP. Because we already need to do more than we require. We need to stick down in front of others. It's a time when 170 beds... We're going to throw those bombs in the Adajos... We're going to throw those bombs in the Pound of Adazi when we're 170 beds... has a collapse in the medical system. I live there, every night, heaps those bombs, and he throws out the money that he could pay to a sanitary man who is fleeing from the medical system. And, Aunt of Mirdza, you'll be watching TV tonight. And I'm sorry I'm just saying, television, which is your god... And you will see there what was shown in Soviet times, how good we have a budget. This budget will have to be returned to those who have been deprived this year, who will be subject to higher taxes, who have been sent and sent SRS to the last criminals on top of the machines only because they have asked for a cut-off allowance. The aunts of Mirdza, you are many, and you decide the fate of Latvia, fortunately or unfortunately, I do not know, but I am asking you - maybe you need to change your god - the television to real life and see how many of your children and grandchildren are currently reading strawberries in England instead of being rich entrepreneurs in Latvia - rich and government-supported entrepreneurs in Latvia. Today you are listening that the public is in their hands to protect your health. And how they protect when they buy useless masks at a price that is expensive, for your pension money, the dear Aunt of Mirdza, for someone else to live at the expense of the accident. The crimes committed during an emergency are, in fact, those that should be judged after the war time by the laws of the courts. And it's comparable, because what's happening in Latvia is something extraordinary. We have been far behind Estonia and Lithuania, and we are no longer comparable to these countries. We are compared with Bulgaria and Romania - this is our level and achievement, these are our success stories, these are the results of our capital repairs, structural reforms of many money. It's discosing with fingers in the middle of the summer, and it's medical pity right now on television. Medicals who, thanks to God, will finally be put on wages under very high pressure from society, but medicals who are afraid to say that we have a minister who should be released. And one more thing, a society that needs to be said. Your god, the television, will not tell you that. At present, a new government is in fact being stuted in Saeima's culuars and those culuars where politicians are circulating. And Juris Pūce is being prepared as a premiere. And that's the reason to save Ilzi Viņķelis, who hasn't done anything all summer to keep our healthcare system in order so that we can save every omite so that we can give each doctor a mask of the best quality. And not only with a three-year delay with pride to say that we will now execute the law, but pay the way the world pays. It's at a time when we shouldn't... I have to repeat, but it is very important - not to spend 2.4 percent of the ball in the Pound of Adazi, but to repair the oncology centre or Gailezer, or to make at least twice as many beds as possible. And to recruit - not to dismiss, to hire! - sanitary, so you don't have to hear every night on the television that our health system is going to collapse. And I'm not going to talk about the education system at all. Parents who are completely unaware of how they will then - then they have to sit at home or bring those children to school, because that is the responsibility of the parents. And it's never the responsibility of ministers. It is never the responsibility of politicians. Nobody in our country is responsible for anything! And it's a built system. A system in which no one is personally responsible for anything. There are only beautiful speeches to show on TV in the evening that we will now have a budget for billions of money. You, Aunts of Mirdza, will not have to give it back, it will have to be given back to us and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U150	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U151	Colleagues! I would like to highlight just one aspect of the draft budget for 2021. And why? It seems to me that over the last 20 years, when drawing up governments and speaking to political parties after every election, one issue that has been actively discussed by different parties and politicians - it is about reducing the tax burden on labour. Everyone in their programmes has always come up for it, but when we get... we or other politicians, or political parties... Until a specific decision is made that it should actually be implemented in reality, there are always needs that need to be financed and there is no way that they can be financed without one or two or more percentage points that would come from labour taxation. This time, which is difficult (i.e. the Covid-19 time), the government offers the Saeima a budget which provides for a one-point reduction in the tax burden on labour. In my view, this is one of the most important issues in this draft budget. I really call for this to be accepted, because it is not only my group's YOUNG Unity that has had a meeting with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia, but other parliamentary groups have also met business organisations, representatives of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia. All of them, as one, are talking about the fact that this time they have an agreement with the government that this is just the beginning. In order to attract investment, so that we can really develop production, and so people have jobs in advanced companies, where employees are paid all taxes, we need to reduce this tax burden on labour. I think this is an important, very important point in the draft budget for this year. That is why I call on everyone to support this draft budget and to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U152	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U153	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good afternoon, honourable fellow Members. In long speeches today, each individual, either in general or for each of his own cases, tries to mark the problem separately or, on the contrary, say “Yes, well”. I wanted to say 'yes, okay'. I am very pleased and happy that, at last, after many years (I think it is now more than 12 years), the Latvian public media is leaving the advertising market. Yeah, it's true, the advertiser goes to the commercial media. Yes, it is true, it is not enough, because the advertiser goes to unregistered advertisers in Latvia as well. It's Facebook, it's Twitter, it's YouTube, it's Google. And here we should have one new tax. People do not like new taxes in Latvia, but I think this tax could be quite pleasant and also pragmatic. Only the problem is that this tax cannot be introduced by Latvia alone. We have to do this in the Baltic States together, namely, Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia must give in to these great giants of the Internet that I have named... hand in hand to collect the digital tax. Because in principle any modern advertiser has migrated and is still migrated in the country, will do so on other platforms, and these are digital internet platforms. In this case only these platforms receive money, but they leave nothing in our Latvian budget. It is estimated that these are more than 10 million per year, and we could share these 10 million further to our media, whether they are public or commercial... and support them yet. This is a thing that I think must really acclaim, namely that the public media - Latvian Radio, Latvian Television, Latvian public media LSM.lv - leaves the advertising market from January 1, 2021. It is very welcome, it is very right, and I also believe that it will only promote media literacy. And people who first have the name of the Aunt of Mirdza will understand more or less what media literacy is and what information should be heard and which is completely exposed to the ears and should not be taken into account, because it is probably harmful. Then again. Forty-nine years there has been a draft law in the Saeima, which has always remained more or less in a drawer, but at present, the Saeima Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs has done that in fact municipal expenditure or newspapers cease their activities. All this has been done, and I am not afraid of this word, without today's protestors, the presence of the FAO, yes, that is. Both exit from the advertising market, the new SEPLP Act and limitation of municipal newspapers... perhaps only this informational edition, which will be the same for all municipalities. Let Victor Valainis then comment if he has something to say about it, but I think it's right in the name of common sense. Well, that's what I wanted to mention. In turn, my colleagues... Colleagues! I am in Parliament for the sixth year, and I bet you that six years ago, and even six years ago, together for perhaps 18 years, I have never heard any sentence that the budget might be perhaps good. It will always be bad like that. If so, let's assume something... whether quotas are placed in the in-house budget. And that doesn't really surprise me. Only more creativity could be added without this background when there were SAID arrows and so on. Those Members who are outside the political groups and are in opposition... Yes, of course, your message is justified, sometimes absolutely unacceptable, but it is mostly justified. So I wanted to highlight the exit of public media from the advertising market. This is something new and has not been in Latvia. The new SEPLP law also distinguishes functions on the principles of public media governance, is a completely new geography, a completely new architecture, the meaning and nature of the law as such. So the last, third, vote still awaits us... In the final vote here, in one of the extraordinary sittings of the Saeima until the end of this year, but it is vital to the same media literacy and vision of the public media, and why does public media as such exist? In other words, they send them to the ground. Anyway, this is the first reading, I call for support. There are a number of questions that... in principle with proposals that raise questions, whether it is necessary or not. I personally have questions, especially about Latvian branding, so to say, about building Latvian image outside Latvia. In my opinion, there are EUR 4.5 million earmarked for the Investment Development Agency of Latvia. I have questions about whether we need it, because we have had four or five brandies. There were talking stones, magnetic Latvia and so on, but it is already separate. It's on the second (I call it the second reason)... second reading. When it is seen in the budget, here in the Saeima, let us speak again, but I could not mention the three points that I mentioned above. Thank you all. I call for support. And let all have a nice rest of the day!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U154	(Sound rupture) ... Once.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U155	Colleagues! First of all, what Mr Kaimina said about the information expenditure of municipalities, whether or not there is a medium. I think this has already been resolved. And it's hard for me to imagine where there's still some local government information publication that's registered as a medium. In addition, it should be noted that the local authorities’ informative expenditure from the advertising market, which was previously a problem, has been outside for some time. So that the biggest challenge that the Saeima will face is how to make citizens fully aware of what is happening on their territory, together with local governments. It's a question that's hanged in the air right now. Regarding... but why I have first and foremost introduced to the debate, Mr Latkovska has said that the main thing in this budget is to reduce one percent tax on labour taxation and that nothing like this has been done for a long time. It's done. In 2018, there was the fastest reduction in labour taxes. It happened without affecting small business. In this case, whatever you say, you and your other hand have influenced the small business and made their future very unclear. Very likely, even a large part of these companies will cease their existence, activities. This is a very serious mistake in this budget, which will have to be corrected. The second point, in terms of labour taxation, has always been an understanding of where money - the tax revenue - goes. If we are talking about personal income tax, so far 80, 82 percent, as in the year, were in the municipal budgets. After the previous tax reform, municipalities were also treated with understanding of their role in the common public administration. At the moment, you have very arrogantly ignored the municipalities at all, without going into their arguments and emphasising that this affects basic expenditure. Mr Pleska talked about all the borrowing opportunities, the various funds and still all the opportunities that municipalities will be able to provide for their activities and a bright future. But at the same time, remember these words “budgetary expenditure”. You can't pay the teacher's salary, you have to pay the teacher... the preschool teacher's salary, you can't tell her: where will you have a new bridge, or where will you have a new kindergarten where people have to pay salaries. The expenditure of the general budget shall also be specific to these salaries. These are large areas that have remained untouched as a result of the reform, where this will be a major challenge and no development investment issues. There is even a problem with co-financing of fund projects, because quite simply local authorities do not have the money to pay seniors the guaranteed benefits that are statutory and have to be paid out. The total amount of the budget is so small that it simply cannot... and this government approach... when, in the past, there were negotiations and they looked at these issues with understanding, in particular those that led to severe labour tax negotiations. Now not only the small business suffers, as well as the municipalities suffer in a very, very large form. If the income share of the population for municipalities is reduced, it was even more drastic to do so. But at the moment, it remains the case that, even after the debate, no one is giving a counter-opinion. This budget is based on small business, is based on regions, on the future development of regions. Development money cannot compensate wages. There's no point building a new kindergarten if you just don't have anyone working there. And that is the big problem with this budget. If people in some remote region need to ensure the delivery of wood at home, and there are also such benefits, then they need to be provided. You don't have to... People will not be helped to warm up in the winter when they tell you when they're getting some sort of main road. That's not going to be enough. And the money for the main road, unfortunately, looks rather tiny. Therefore, my fellow Members, I remain in the position that this budget is poorly prepared. I do not agree in a way. I also followed those who follow this sitting, and I would like to say one Minister - that is, an economic minister who has followed this sitting all day. I think that we will have very interesting cooperation for the second reading, because at least one of the ministers will have listened to what the opposition is saying. So that the government's understanding here will be... Not only the Saeima is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Ples, Stein, Bauman, Dombrovskis and Bondar ask for the Saeima to continue its sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Please open a section of the procedure, we will have to vote on it. We can vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the continuation of the extraordinary meeting on 28 October 2020 in a remote form, without interruption, until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. We're continuing the sitting all the time. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U157	Hello, colleagues! I just want to remind you that the revenue - EUR 9.6 billion provided for in the next year's budget - is not your money. It's taxpayers' money, Latvian taxpayers' money. So let us act wisely with this taxpayer's money. Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U158	The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U159	Thank you. I... a short replica. I would like to comment on what Mr Latkovsky said, as well as on what the Prime Minister said, and on what the Minister of Finance said, which together praises the reduction in the minimum social insurance contribution by one percentage point as an event awaited by everyone who offered to reduce labour taxes. Mr Reira has also said on several occasions that it also improves the competitiveness of our businesses, reducing the cost of production. Question: why, ladies and gentlemen, if you really are talking about reducing labour taxes, do you not start building this log from another end and you have not reduced it, and you have not proposed a reduction in personal income tax at least for income below one average monthly salary? This would really be a good contribution to reducing the labour tax burden. But you introduced, along with the reduction in the compulsory contribution of social security, a minimum social contribution - here you do not care that you introduced another tax burden into it by one hand and another group of taxpayers. Where is your logic and consistency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U160	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U161	Yes, thank you to Ainars Latkovsky for this view of labour tax, for giving it so much importance. Well, I can only agree to this in part. If we start from the beginning... in general, from some kind of conditional start, I am perhaps the person who, at the time less than 10 years ago, has started all of this, so to say, the movement for reducing labour taxes. And my colleague Ainars Latkovskis probably also remembers this, so to say, the great agreement between the Zatlers Reform Party and the Unity, where the Unity had to join at any price in the euro area, the Reform Party had to reduce the tax burden on labour. It's also laid down in law on our part, to a large extent on my part... was to reduce the personal income tax by five percentage points, which quite a large part - three percentage points - was also fulfilled. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Or it has, after all, significantly increased the competitiveness of the country, helped to attract investment, or something like that: it is a good question in general. But it is good, colleagues, that at least this is how we start thinking about what is then building our competitiveness. I think this conversation is... Well, I hope it's not late, but it should have started sometime, much earlier. If we're talking about labour tax, then... competitiveness, attractive for investment, exactly where? Thinking about some medium-sized business - now this, my fellow Members, is a full-time yesterday. We need to talk about specific sectors. If we are talking about industry, there are quite a small number of people in modern industry. Consequently, I think that whether a social tax is 35 percent or 34 percent will not differ much. In industry, where labour costs for a typical industry are likely to be less than 30 per cent of the total costs. This would be important for more service-based companies. Now, for example, a rather popular example in recent times is for programmers, for those working in the information technology sector. And it would be very interesting to see what the end-balance will be about attracting IT companies from Belarusian programmers. Because, on the one hand, it seems that LIAA is quite successful in this respect, and I think there is no doubt that, to a very large extent, this success is due to a very favourable tax regime... by the way, alternative tax treatment. Those so-called (now my Mūrniece will point out) start– ups, for which appropriate legislative amendments have recently been adopted, where they have much, much lower labour taxes than those working under normal working conditions. But compared, I think many will go to Ukraine, where labour taxes in general from the first perspective are only a little less. But now, attention is paid to all those who want to put a single social insurance template for absolutely all citizens... For example, in Ukraine, social security taxes are only payable for the first 1400 euros from wages. And then it's believed that this social insurance... social insurance policy ends, and for everything that a person earns over them 1 400 euros per month, no social security tax is applied. And this, of course, creates a much greater attractiveness, for example, for the tax system of Ukraine, compared to the tax system of Latvia or even Estonia or Lithuania. So here the devil is in detail and answers the question of which sectors we want to develop. And the debate on competitiveness must be at sectoral level rather than some mythical medium-sized enterprise. But, as I said, I think it is positive that there is at least some kind of conversation that I hope has begun. And I hope it will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U162	Name to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš for the second time. Mr. Karins, please register again in the system.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U163	Thank you. Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I have listened to all the debates, to what both opposition and position members say. Both the state budget and the wider situation in general and, of course, the Covid-19 pandemic have been mentioned. There's one thing that unites us all. And that is that we all care very much about what is happening in our country. We all have thoughts on how to develop the conditions for our country... whether there is room for improvement in order to make the development of the country more rapid. All of us are united. Of course, in detail and in what way is it perceived - there are differences, of course, but it is completely typical of any healthy democracy, and I would really like to thank everyone for the opinions that you have expressed. It's... Either one another more perhaps with humor is expressed or with such ironic humor, but in general I perceive it as a really warm wish for each of our countries. What, though, is ahead of you for decision? There is a government-designed draft budget for 2021 with accompanying legislative proposals, which has been broadly discussed, including with all social partners. To sum up, once again: if such a budget was approved by the Saeima, then we could improve the competitiveness of our country by reducing labour taxes, in particular social tax, by one percentage point from 1 January, and also by extending or increasing the threshold... raise the threshold for the calculation of the unlimited minimum from EUR 1200 to EUR 1800. We would also increase the minimum wage from 430 to 500 euros from 1 January. We, too, are just... there is a rather wide range of offers, including the increase in medical salaries in the amount envisaged... In the amount prescribed by law, the increase in the salaries of educators in full, as provided for by the decision of the Constitutional Court, thus guaranteed minimum income, minimum pension, housing benefits and several more cases in this area. And also, of course, money so that public media can get out of the advertising market, which has been talked for a long time, and now it's money to do it to the end. And finally on social guarantees. Many have also spoken on this subject today. It is wrong, in my opinion, that people working and earning money in Latvia and paying taxes would not be socially insured. It is simply not fair to them. And in this budget and accompanying law packages... in the package, we offer how this situation could be changed... not from 1 January, from 1 July, introducing this... so-called minimal social... social tax, which would be paid by everyone, but, of course, there is a mechanism for those who earn less than the minimum wage, how they should not pay a certain amount, but they could continue to pay proportionately, without being punished for their low income, allowing them to pay a proportionate tax that is less than the minimum wage. We're... I hear what the opposition also says. The opposition is always not in favour of governments; its democratic parliamentary facilities are already in place. But it is also not that everything the opposition says is unimportant. And we have also tried to include this budget, and I think there is actually much that the opposition is also talking about, especially in terms of social justice. So I call on the Members, before they just criticise the offer, to go into a little bit of a little detail, to read to the end. And I think you'll see that it's not exactly what each other has said. So thank you all once again for this debate. I think they are important and important. Of course, it is significant that we are conducting this debate in this way, in secret... through the Internet in the context of a pandemic, which I also accept will be recorded in the history books, that it was then - in 2020 - the adoption of the Saeima budget. God gives it to be in history books and that this pandemic could actually end sooner than it could be later. So thank you all. Thank you, Madam President. I call once again on all Members of the Saeima to support the draft budget for 2021 and the accompanying package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U164	I closed the debate. Thank you Prime Minister. Thank you to the government ministers. Thank you to the Members of the Saeima for a meaningful budget debate. On behalf of the Commission responsible, Mr Bondara, is there something to add? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondars: “Very short!” ) Please.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U165	Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! Thank you very much to the Prime Minister, to the ministers, to all the debaters. I'm not going to be late anymore. Here, in the debate, there has been something both on the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and on the other side, because other Members have also debated. What I would just like to say is that we need to move to a decision, to a vote as soon as possible, because I know that our colleagues are looking forward to putting forward proposals. And I know that the government is waiting to change some of the points I have heard in the budget debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U166	Thank you. Please return the microphone to Mr Bondara. He must report on behalf of the commission on draft laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U167	Yeah. Request to support the first reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U168	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please, let's vote! No, 65, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U169	The deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00 a.m. and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 23 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U170	Thank you. So the deadline for examining the proposals... deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00, consideration by the Saeima - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U171	The draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security" is also supported by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission at first reading. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U172	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please, let's vote! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U173	The deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00, next... Consequently, the second reading will be the meeting of the Saeima on 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U174	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00, examination at the Seimas sitting - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U175	Request to support the draft law “Amendments to the Czech Lottery Law” at first reading. Supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U176	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Czech Lottery Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 70, for - 2, for - 13. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U177	(Sound rupture) ... deadline - 30 October at 12.00, second reading - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U178	So the deadline for proposals - 30 October at 12.00 this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U179	The draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” is also supported by the Commission at first reading. Request to support the Saeima as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U180	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U181	The deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00 a.m., second reading - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U182	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00, examination at the Seimas sitting - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U183	The draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Act” was also approved by the Commission at first reading. Request to support the Saeima as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U184	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Invalidity Act at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U185	The deadline for tabling proposals - 30 October at 12.00 this year, Parliament's second-reading session - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U186	Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00 this year - at the sitting of the Saeima on 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U187	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” is also supported by the Commission at first reading. Request to support the Saeima as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U188	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U189	The deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October this year at 12.00 and second reading - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U190	Thank you, the deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00 this year - at the sitting of the Saeima on 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U191	The Commission also supported the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Information Society Services". Request to support the Saeima at first reading as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U192	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Society Services”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U193	The deadline for tabling proposals - 30 October at 12.00 this year, second reading by the Saeima - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U194	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00, examination at the Seimas sitting - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U195	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” was also endorsed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission at first reading. Request to support the Saeima as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U196	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 64, for - 17, for - 9. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U197	The deadline for the proposals is 12 noon on 30 October this year and the session of the Saeima at second reading - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U198	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00 this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U199	The Commission also supported the draft law on First Reading Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management. Request to support the Saeima as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U200	Please, call! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U201	The deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00 on the day of this year and the second reading of the draft law - on 23 November of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U202	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00, examination at the Seimas sitting - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U203	The Commission also supported the draft law on Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act at first reading. Request to the Saeima - to support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U204	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U205	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00 this year and discussion of the draft law at second reading by the Saeima - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U206	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00, examination at the Seimas sitting - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U207	The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law on social protection for the victims of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the social protection law at the Chernobyl nuclear power station. Request to the Saeima - to support at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U208	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Social Protection Law for the Victims of the Accidents of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the Social Protection Law for the Victims of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U209	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 12.00 on 30 October this year and the second reading - on 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U210	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00, examination at the Seimas sitting - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U211	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has also examined and supported the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Security” at first reading. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U212	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social security! Please, let's vote! For - 85, for - no, for - 2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U213	(Sound rupture) ... for second reading: 30 October at 12.00 a.m. and second reading: 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U214	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U215	The Commission has also examined the draft law on First-reading Amendments to the Act on Unemployment. I ask the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U216	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”! Please, let's vote! For - 86, for - no, for - 2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U217	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading is 30 October at 12.00 a.m. and the examination of the draft law at the second reading of the Saeima - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U218	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U219	The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has also examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”” which was approved at first reading. Request to support this draft law at first reading as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U220	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 85, for - no, for - 2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for proposals and review time in Saeima sitting!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U221	The deadline for submitting the proposals is 12 noon on 30 October this year and the second reading on 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U222	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U223	The Commission has also supported the draft law on the first reading of the State Funded Pensions Act. The Saeima's request - to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U224	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 86, for - no, for - 2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U225	The deadline for submitting proposals - by 12.00 on 30 October this year and consideration by the Saeima - on 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U226	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U227	The Commission has also examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on State Pensions’, which was endorsed at first reading. Request Saeima - to support the draft law “Amendments to the law on state pensions” at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U228	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” at first reading! Please, let's vote! On - 88, against - no, abstaining - 2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U229	Time limit for the submission of proposals for second reading - 30 October at 12.00, discussion of the draft law at the second reading of the Saeima - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U230	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00, examination at the Seimas sitting - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U231	The Commission has also supported the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases". Request to the Saeima - to support these amendments at first reading in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U232	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” at first reading! Please, let's vote! On - 88, against - no, abstaining - 2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U233	The deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00 this year and consideration by the Saeima - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U234	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U235	The Commission has also supported the proposal for a first reading amendment to the law on the rental of dwellings. Request Saeima - to support the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the law on the rental of residential premises”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U236	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Rent of Accommodations”” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 84, for - 1, for - 2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U237	The deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading - 30 October at 12.00 a.m. and for the second reading at the sitting of the Saeima - 23 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U238	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U239	The Commission has also examined the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance and has supported it at first reading and is asking the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U240	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please, let's vote! For - 85, for - 1, for - 2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U241	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 12 noon on 30 October of this year and the session of the Saeima shall be held on 23 November of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U242	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U243	The Commission has also supported the draft law on First Reading Amendments to the law on assistance in housing matters. The Saeima's request - to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U244	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”! Please, let's vote! For - 84, for - 1, for - 2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U245	Time-limit for the submission of proposals for second reading - 30 October at 12.00 a.m. and second reading of the draft law - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U246	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U247	The Commission has also supported the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on State Social Benefits. Request of Saeima - to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U248	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” at first reading! Please, let's vote! On - 88, against - no, abstaining - 2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U249	Time-limit for the submission of proposals for second reading - 30 October at 12.00 a.m. and second reading of the draft law - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U250	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U251	The Commission has also supported the proposal for a first-reading amendment to the Law on Excise Duty. Request Saeima - to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U252	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 71, for - 2 and for - 15. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U253	The deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00 a.m. and second reading - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U254	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U255	The Commission has also supported the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act". Request to the Saeima - to support the draft law "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Law" at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U256	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Law". Please, let's vote! 85 for, 1 for, 1 for, 1 for, 1 for. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U257	The deadline for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Solidarity Tax” is 12 noon on 30 October this year and the discussion at second reading - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U258	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U259	The Commission has also supported the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information. Request to the Saeima - to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information” at first reading as decided by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U260	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U261	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 30 October at 12.00 on the day of this year and the discussion of the draft law at the second reading of the Saeima - 23 November of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U262	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U263	The Commission has also examined and supported the draft law on Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act at first reading. Please do the same for the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U264	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law”! Please, let's vote! About - 61, against - 28, refrains - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U265	The deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00 on the day of this year and the second reading of the draft law - on 23 November of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U266	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U267	The Commission has also examined the draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance" and supported the first reading and asks the Saeima to support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U268	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U269	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 30 October at 12.00 a.m. and second reading - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U270	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U271	The Commission has also supported the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax”. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U272	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please, let's vote! For - 57, for - 27, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U273	(Sound rupture) ... deadline for submission - by 12.00 on 30 October this year and second reading - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U274	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - at 12.00 on 30 October this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting - on 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U275	The Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Vehicle Operating Tax and Enterprise Passenger Vehicle Tax Act. Please support this bill by the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U276	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on vehicle operation tax and company passenger vehicle tax law! Please, let's vote! For - 60, for - 25, for - 2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U277	(Sound rupture) ... deadline for submission - 30 October at 12.00 a.m. and second reading - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U278	Deadline for the proposals - 30 October at 12.00, parliamentary - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U279	The Commission has supported the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2021, 2022 and 2023 for the first reading and is asking the Saeima to support it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U280	Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 at first reading! Please, let's vote! On - 62, against - 26, refraining from - 2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U281	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00 and second reading of the draft law - 23 November this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U282	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 October at 12.00, examination at the Seimas sitting - 23 November this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U283	Finally, the Commission has examined and supported the draft law ‘On the State Budget 2021’. I ask the Saeima to support the draft law on the state budget 2021 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U284	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law on the state budget 2021 at first reading! Please, let's vote! For -63, for -25, for -2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U285	The deadline for submitting proposals - 30 October at 12.00 on the day of this year and consideration of the draft law by the Saeima at second reading - on 23 November of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U286	Thank you. Deadline for proposals - 30 October at 12.00, examination of the draft law by the Saeima at its meeting - 23 November this year. Dear colleagues, Thus, for the draft Law “On the State Budget 2021”, as well as for the accompanying draft laws, namely the draft laws from the draft budget package, the deadline for submitting proposals is 30 October at 12.00 this year, and consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 23 November this year. Thank you. We are on the agenda for the examination of the draft decision. Draft decision on the procedure (form) for the submission of proposals for the 2021 national budget package. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U287	Dear colleagues, As every time, this year too, there is a draft decision on how to make it possible for us to... we have a common framework for the examination of the 2021 national budget package. So a form has been created. The only difference from previous years is that there are no restrictions at present on the number of characters that you can give your motivation as to why such or any other proposal has been made. If you want from e-books... copy green land and copy... So that - will be very wide... Many people will read the Green Land. Thank you. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-28-PT13-2129-U288	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the procedure (form) for submitting proposals for the 2021 national budget package! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda for today's sitting. There's also a record of Members. Registration has been successfully completed. Thank you all for your work today. Thank Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. Thank you to all government ministers who took part in the Saeima meeting and explained both the draft budget and the accompanying package. Thank you to all my colleagues for the debate. I'm closing the sitting.
