ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U1	Hello! Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, take your seats! Let us begin the sitting of the Saeima on 9 January 2020. On behalf of the Bureau, I wish all my fellow Members a happy new year! “ Thank you! ” ; “happily!” ) Today we welcome our colleagues Juris Jušas, who have fought the Constitutional Court, and Ati Zakaitistov! We are pleased with your return. (Applause) Before we start to discuss the agenda of the sitting, proposals for amendments to the agenda of the Seimas sitting are discussed. Draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the District Council of the Republic”. The Bureau proposed that it be placed on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) There are objections. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -67, against -3, refrains - not. The draft law is on the agenda of the Saeima sitting today. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”. Are Members opposed to putting this draft law on the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones’. Are Members opposed to the inclusion of this draft law? There is no objection. The draft law is on the agenda. Draft Law on Trade Marks. Are Members opposed to putting this draft law on the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Are there any objections? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Draft law “Amendment to law on popular voting, law proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative”. Add to the agenda. Are there any objections? One wants to talk about it. Please! Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! Congratulations to everyone in the new year! Colleagues, congratulations on coming back to the Saeima sitting! And I'll tell you about this bill. I call for it to be placed on the agenda for today's sitting and to be referred to the Commission as well. In essence, the draft law provides for equal opportunities for citizens when voting for the dismissal of the Saeima and for presidential initiatives or popular votes... and one and the other... could vote latvija.lv and thus make this process more accessible to citizens. I think it's... The collection of signatures of latvija.lv has already proved itself. And with regard to the collection of any other signatures, this possibility should be given. Right now for... as, for example, the presidential announcement of a popular vote... Such a possibility is only on-site. And that... I think this entry does not fully correspond to today. We call on our colleagues to supplement these two parts here, to make the same, and to provide that the votes on the people's votes can also be voted on on the Internet, as proposed by the Member or the President. Colleagues, I call today to hand over to the commission... to refer the Seimas to the sitting of the Saeima and subsequently to the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U3	Thank you. Do Members have any other ideas? Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The order of business has been amended. Let us consider reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. Proposal to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members have objections?... The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Detention Procedures” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Prisons” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On the Expropriation of Real Estate for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Natural Persons” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Convention of 2 February 1971 on Wetlands of International Interest, especially as Waterbirds’ Life Environment” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Monitoring of the Food Chain” be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Election Commissions of Cities and Districts of the Republic” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please turn on the microphone for Arthur Tom Pleys!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U4	Colleagues, as this draft law is related to the administrative implementation of territorial reform, I call on the Commission responsible for determining the Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U5	Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Thus, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government, as well as to the Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform. ( Internouncing call.) Just? Thus, the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Electoral Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania” (Interpretative statement: “There are objections!” ) proposes to refer to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission. And the objections? ( The utterances are: “We must vote! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation of Elections” be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of Saeima proposes that the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the District Council of the Republic” be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. The procedure or... Is that so? On the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Arthur Tom Pleys!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U6	Colleagues, this draft law, too... I call for the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission to be designated as the Responsible Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U7	In other words, you recommend changing? ( Internouncing call.) Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “Don’t change! ” “Yes!” ) So let us vote. We will vote for the handover of the draft law to the State Administration... ( Intercretion: “To the Commission! ” ) The Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against - 4, it's not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Seimas Presidium proposes that the Member Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Ulda Augulis, Jānis Urbanovičs, Gundars Dauges, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janīna Jalinska, Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāns and Valija Agešin's draft law be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “On procedure! ”) ) “About” or “to”? ( Interface: “On procedure! ”) ) About the procedure? Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U8	Well, this is an electoral law. The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has always been responsible for these laws. I would encourage referral to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U9	Is your proposal to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government? ( Interface: There are objections, let's vote!) ) There are objections. So let's vote. Please call me! Please vote mode! ( Insight: ‘ What are we voting on? ’) ) On referral of the draft law to the Legal Commission. ( The ring of noise.) So about handing over the draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 30, for - 1. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. (Laughter) Thank you very much. On the granting of leave. ( Independence: “We must vote! ” (Laughter) The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Lubova Švekova for the granting of unpaid leave on 19 December 2019. The Saeima Bureau has granted her leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. ‘ Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, expression of trust or distrust of officials.’ Members Juta Strīķe, Krišjānis Feldmans, Jānis Cielēns, Anita Muižniece, Juris Rancāns, Normunds Gunna, Reinis Znotiņš, Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, Jānis Butāns and Uldis Budriks propose draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Juris Jušas to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Treatment of requests by Members Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Valija Agešina, Ivana Klementyeva, Jānis Adamson, Edgars Kucina, Vital Orlova, Jānis Krišāns, Regina Ločmele-Lunova and Nikolai Kabanov apply to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the failure of the Government to justify the legality of its decision regarding the failure to ensure that the increase in funding required by law is not paid to healthcare workers”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U10	Good morning, colleagues! We also welcome Ati Zakaitistov to return to line. Thus, the Panel examined the request made by the Saeima Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Valija Agešina, Ivana Klementyeva, Jānis Adamsonas, Edgars Kucina, Vitalis Orlova, Jānis Krišāns, Regina Lochmeles-Lunova and Nikolaja Kabanov to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the failure of the Government to justify the legality of its decision regarding the failure to ensure the payment of the statutory increase in funding for health care workers” (No. 21/P13), document No. 1400 and, by voting 6 to 9 against, admitted that Members' request should be rejected. Please support the committee's vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U11	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U12	Hello, colleagues! A little context for this request. Consequently, this request, ‘On the failure of the government to justify the legality of its decision on not ensuring the statutory increase in funding for the pay of health care workers’, arose after Karin was unable to respond to the previous request, which was because we simply asked to submit a statement of reasons: what was the legal basis for the government not to comply with the law. You know, it was a pretty amusing story. From the beginning, the Minister for Health was sent to talk about the aspects of the rule of law, which, of course, could not answer anything. After we asked for answers in writing, these responses to the government's decision on the rule of law were classified as secret information. When we asked for a statement of reasons: ‘What basis do you make secret information about what is the legal basis for such a government decision?’ , it was said: “Apologies, we made a mistake. It was simply a mistake. This is not classified information.’ Well, those who understand something from special record keeping know that it is simply impossible to make mistakes. In order to take such a decision on information that it is classified, there must be an official who takes that decision, there must be a justification for it and a reference to specific legal provisions. This cannot simply be done by mistake. This has shown from the outset that the government is well aware that it has taken an unlawful decision. A decision which has no legal basis. That is why this request arose that we asked Krišjānis Kariņš to give... explain why he cannot, why avoid... about that... Because the situation was completely amusing. Krišjānis Kariņš lied to the Saeima that he was in Brussels, so that he did not come to the Saeima and did not provide this justification for the legality of his actions. At the same time, he was... At the same time, his agenda showed that he was in Latvia, and literally he was here for half an hour before - at a television studio. He had no problem coming and answering... But he lied. She lied to the Saeima that she is not in Latvia to just not reply. That is, the government was well aware that it was making an unlawful decision that the medical profession was acting without a legal basis. Because Krišjānis Karin avoided this... Even, let us say, desperately avoided not coming here to the Saeima, and without giving a reply, without giving reasons, we collected the necessary signatures within one day after doing this, that we will make an investigation commission and, if necessary, bring us here to Krišjānis Kariņš, whether locked in handcuffs, but let him be held accountable for providing this legal basis. Then we managed to get that Krišjānis Kariņš came to the Request Commission and did not come alone, but arrived together with the Minister of Finance Jānis Reira and the Minister of Health Ilzi Viņķelis, a whole three. Three representatives of the government. They came to this commission, but it turned out that they had prepared a little trick. To this commission, none of the coalitions had come to the commission, thus trying to demolish the quorum... demolish the Commission's quorum. However, the fact that they ignored the law without fully understanding the rules of law, this time they were thrown down by themselves, because it turned out that this was not a new sitting, this was the previous sitting that continued, and this previous sitting had a quorum. Since the government ministers had again nihilistically come to the rule of law and had not taken care of the presence of a coalition Member, there was no Member who at this meeting asked for the quorum to be verified. So the sitting could have continued a priori. And Krišjānis Kariņš had to answer what the legal basis was then. Then began the most interesting thing – how they tried to exercise it all. The concept that the government is a separate entity of constitutional law was driven from the outset and therefore they do not have to comply with the decisions of the Saeima. The question “Where are you... Where is the legal framework that allows you not to do so – to do not comply with the laws in the state of law, to do not comply with the decisions of the Saeima?” ... There was no such justification. Then there came a new concept of how they tried to distort themselves - they tried to say that, in principle, already... in principle they would have already performed... he said: “But if we were to sit today... If we were just three, that's Viņķelis, Reir and Karin... “... that they would have accepted it, they would have executed the law. Colleagues, this is a question for coalition colleagues. They tried to point out that they would have done it, but those lawbreakers are those other coalition partners who did it... which has so acted... and therefore they were forced to violate the law. We pointed out that, apologies, the political transaction, however, is not more important than the law in the legal state. And then they came up with a new concept of what they figured out. They announced that they... It was announced that... Well, I guess it's desperate... Without being able to provide any legal basis for this decision in respect of medical practitioners, it was stated that the Government had not infringed any law at all. And since the government has not violated any law, Krišjānis Kariņš does not have to provide any justification for the legality of his government's actions. Completely serious! Colleagues, we are now talking about Latvia being a legal and democratic state. You can name at least one legal and democratic state that is parliamentary, which is a parliamentary republic by constitution and where the government can come to Parliament and simply say, ‘You know, we can do what we want and we don’t even have to report to you!’ Is that so? In principle, for Latvia as a legal and democratic state, this is a real kick under the belt - what Krišjānis Kariņš has done with his government. What happened then? Being well aware that they have been exposed and that they have no reason to do so, and this will become public, a mass campaign was launched to see that this decision by the Saeima, which was taken in respect of medical practitioners in 2018, was unfulfilled, it was unthinkable. Unfortunately, there were many Members of the Saeima who tried to reproduce this statement. Today, my fellow Members, I will prove to you that they are all lies and that it has been misleading society. In preparation for this request, we made questions to the Ministry of Finance and received replies from the Ministry of Finance, which demonstrate that this decision of the Saeima was enforceable. In principle, this was evident. Those who remember, those who have adopted the budget and who know what they have voted for - you know that the increase in budget revenue has been more than 700 million. What was needed by medical staff - they were extra... if we were talking about this salary, it was an extra 120 million. So it is obvious that this could have been done. So, what did the government do? Of course, they tried to “circumcise” it smarter. They began to say: “You know, there are other statutory requirements that the government had to meet, along with these requirements of the law... Well, then it would be right: if we do for medical doctors, then we must do for others too. And since we didn't do these other things, then we decided that we would not do the medicine too.” Well, that is not, of course, any legal basis either, but it can also be rebutted. And today I will prove to you that it is a lie that is reproduced to the public (and unfortunately some media are taking part in it), that this decision on medical fees for 2020, for these additional 120 million, was unfulfilled. It's a lie! This is misleading the public! I mean, then we asked the Ministry of Finance... submit, then, what are those... What are the laws then, specifically listed... statutory requirements, where this increase should have been provided for in other cases as well. And now we go through positions. First position. Article 78 of the Law on Higher Education provides that the annual increase in funding for studies in public universities must provide at least 0.25 per cent of GDP. How big was GDP? Colleagues who have adopted the budget, you should know! Who can call it? Nobody. 33 billion, comma... 33 billion, just over 33 billion. That means 0.25 percent - it will be 82.9 million. Let's go. So one sum is known - 82,9 million. Go on. Next. Article 33 of the Law on Scientific Activities provides that the annual increase in funding for scientific activities – not less than 0,15 per cent of GDP. It amounts to some 49.7 million. Go on. The Law on Education... with regard to the monthly salary of educators. As you remember, there also the educators were outrageled by the fact that this fixed... This increase, as approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, was not achieved by 9 million. He found 23 million, he needed another 9 million. So these numbers go in there. Go on. The Health Financing Act, mentioned above, with 120 million for 2020. We can also foresee that last year's budget derogation came to an end, allowing the financing of health services by means of a budget deficit. We can add 120 million more. Go on. Health Care Financing Act. So 2 percent of GDP. As GDP grew, this growth amounted to 27 million. Go on. The Law on Electronic Media. Foreseeing that it was necessary to go... these demands that public media should have left the advertising market - there should have been an additional 5.5 million. So these are all the requirements that had to be secured in the form of growth. All of them count together, the total amounts to 317 million. This is twice as much as the increase in the budget with which it could all be financed. And you're trying to say that couldn't be done. It's a total lie! ( Some Members are applauding.) Even if we put this budget deficit here, 120 million more, it is enough to do all of this. Since what has now been demonstrated by Krišjānis Kariņš with his government - it is not only a legal nihilism, it is not only a spring for Latvia as a legal and democratic state, ignoring those principles and values - Krišjānis Kariņš had declared that social justice and justice are important to him - it is simply a lies and deception, a clear nihilism against the needs of the people, against an understanding of what is important for the nation to develop in the long term so that our country can develop. It's gonna show you... This event will also demonstrate how we as Latvia, as civil society are ready to stand up for our rights and to exist... Because what the rulers are doing now - they aim to divide society, to deceive it so that only this illegal, illegal, undemocratic act can be covered. I therefore call on one of the coalition colleagues here today who are going to vote against this request to come and justify what you... What is your reason to cover up this illegal government action that is manifestly unlawful and not justified. If you cannot do so, you will be assured that you are delivering all your promises to your constituents when you come to the elections, and you are not entitled to sit here, and such a Saeima would be released as soon as possible. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U13	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U14	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, At the time when this issue was discussed in the Commission, it was time that the report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia to the Saeima was not available. I would like to quote some articles from the letter so that you who will vote in favour of the request today may be taken into account. ‘ I am,” the Ombudsman writes, “like most of Latvia’s society is concerned about the case when 13. On 13 December 2018, members of the Saeima amended the Health Care Financing Law, providing for a gradual increase in state funding for raising the salary of healthcare workers. Including for the year 2020.’ Point. Next. ‘ Saying... Seeing Parliament's actions in time... On 13 December 2018, when the Health Care Financing Act was amended, it can be seen that the initial good intentions to raise pay for workers in the medical sector were based on and justified on the need and need to address the health crisis.’ Next. ‘ And again this year... top... Members of the committee responsible... Where I also took part... By its full commitment, it voted firmly to the proposal not to vote in favour of the approval of the State budget for 2020 unless it included the provisions of the Health Care Financing Act.’ The principle of the rule of law, which is one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, states that everyone is subject to the law. This means that everyone must comply with the rules in force. And by the end. The Ombudsman considers that, in such a situation, non-compliance with constitutional principles has caused serious damage to society. The fundamental value of every democratic rule of law is respect for human rights. As a constitutional body, Parliament first of all has a duty to ensure respect for fundamental rights during the legislative process, which has not been implemented in this case. With this example, serious risks of constancy have been created, therefore at the moment he is considering applying to the Constitutional Court. Dear colleagues, I call on you to support the request and to honour your solemn undertaking made by this troubling.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U15	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U16	Good morning, colleagues! Happy New Year for All! I will not speak for a long time, because Mr Zarins has already described very precisely the course of the examination of this request. But in a way, this is a historical demand, because this was the only demand to... Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš himself came to answer the Members' questions following multiple requests - both written and oral. We also tried to ask through the Constitutional Protection Bureau... What should Members do when the Prime Minister has repeatedly ignored Members of the Saeima? And Mr. Kariņš has such a fashion issue at all... When we, Members, ask the Head of Government to evaluate the actions or omissions of a minister, the Prime Minister submits this assessment in the same way as the Minister himself. So such absurd situations have arisen several times. So this was a really historic case when Mr. Kariņš came with a cross (in Mr. Reira's person and Mrs. Viņķele's person) but... in advance, as Ivars also told... ensuring in advance that the coalition was not... and... Whereas... Yeah... It was very theatrical, interesting. If you want to, you can also listen to the audio recordings. But it's not a story. The story is about something else: that somehow in this term has come in such a way that, while the coalition does not provide itself with the desired vote, a majority of votes, even requests, which the roll of order of the Saeima demands to be dealt with within two weeks... requests are placed in drawer because they are simply physically impossible to vote on, because the quorum is ‘demolished’. And this was exactly a request: what you can see was presented on 3 October, but the decision was, in other words, only taken on 18 December - when the coalition was convinced that the vote would be exactly what was needed. And I don't really understand that, because all requests are already coming to the Saeima's Sitting Hall... comes or doesn't come. Don't come when Mr. Carney doesn't come. But this one has finally come. And it makes me think about this unwillingness to talk to Members at all, not to go to dialogue, not to explain, not to tell. Well, where's it going?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I will call for this request to be voted in favour, because those coalition Members who voted 'no' at the Commission's sitting were, in fact, not present at the meeting when Mr Kariņš answered questions and asked questions. And the Members who voted against this request have, in fact, not been familiar with the content of the answers. So, colleagues, I will call on you to vote in favour of this request. I wish the new chairman of the Commission, Mr Pug. And I make every hope that you will succeed in ensuring that all requests are dealt with objectively, with the necessary presence of persons. Good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U18	Colleagues! Thank you to the applicants for updating this topic, and I believe that whatever the vote today, there will still be a future for this request. I wanted to focus on the substance. It is very simple: there is one law and there is a budgetary law. All Members of the Saeima, including myself, have always been told historically that the budget law is the most important law, and if everything can be voted on, but the issue must be voted on in the budget law, and then let us follow what is in the budget law. I do not know if you have noticed such a case that members of the opposition have turned to the Constitutional Court at the end of the year and the Constitutional Court has accepted an application on issues related to remuneration of higher education and will consider this issue in essence. When writing the application, I did not think that the Constitutional Court would accept to see it. But, as a surprise, it adopted this case, although it has already been looked at in the past in relation to the road fund and other issues, where the Ministry of Finance has always told us all that the budget law is the most important one. At the moment, what is being raised by colleagues is that there is no more important law, there are laws. We look at the opinions of the State Audit Office on how some institutions bend, circumvent laws, but in principle deals with irregularities, not suggest changing these laws. This request for substance marks the main point - that there is no more important law than other laws. All laws must be harmonised and must not conflict with each other. And in this case it is this Saeima that has created this contradiction itself, and I very, very much hope that the Constitutional Court will come to this - in another - case again with clarification and an understanding that there are no two laws in Latvia where one is more important than the other. You are currently maintaining this system without supporting this request. Once again, thank my colleagues for keeping this subject up to date and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U19	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U20	Good morning, honourable colleagues! We are really starting the new year with a very serious conversation. Because the question is whether there is legal nihilism in Latvia or not. The legal basis for any decision is a mandatory requirement, in particular for Members of the Saeima. This is not about pre-election promises. They can be fulfilled, they can not be fulfilled, they can be explained, they can not be explained. I very much liked the explanation made by Mr Bordan at the time: naturally, all the BIP's promises would have been fulfilled if the voter returned 51 votes to the Saeima. Well, logically. Naturally, the voter is guilty of all this. But this is the case of the law. It would be fair, professional and fair if the Cabinet of Ministers had also submitted amendments to the Health Care Financing Act in the list of draft laws accompanying the budget. In this case, it would be clear and understandable that the budgetary options do not allow the requirement of the law to be fulfilled and therefore the law should be amended. In this case, responsibility would lie on the members of the Saeima and not on the shoulders of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers has chosen and Mr. Kariņš personally... has chosen a different path. The road associated with, forgive me, the word... speech: we wanted, we couldn't, we wanted, we couldn't... and so on, and so on. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) In this case, the Cabinet of Ministers acted not only unethically, but also non-professionally. And in this case... The head of the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to explain the rule of law in any case. And if it's a mistake... Its mistakes must be corrected. If the promise made by this Saeima and not by any previous “bad” Saeima is to be fulfilled, then it must be fulfilled. If that promise cannot be fulfilled, then it is fair to say: "We who had accepted the amendments were unable to do so and do not want to do so today, but perhaps in the future." It would be fair and fair, but unpleasant; it would not be popular, it would not be a step towards the next elections. It wouldn't be straight and clear... Why are we not fulfilling one promise with one hand, but adding the other hand from the same budget to the funding of almost five million parties, not to the funding after the next elections, but to the existing parties? This is all very immoral. And that's why the demand is in place. And I call on you to support it. Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U21	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U22	Dear colleagues, To add all that my colleagues have said today on this request, I... I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in fact, as you know yourself, honourable coalition colleagues, everything is being done at the moment to prepare the way for the departure so that amendments to the Health Financing Act can be made as painfully as possible... these amendments, which were also recommended to you by Mr Levite. So untie all the promises that you made - generously made - and no longer sell to the medical staff what you had promised before the European Parliament elections. That's the coincidence! And we also see that individual Members... either, carry out various researches on salaries, compares doctor’s salaries, and raises some numbers out, and tries to divide the medical team with such researches. And we already know that the Ministry of Health has also responded to this information. But it's also unpleasant... to see that if certain doctors may publish some images on social networks, showing that they are very tired of working hard, then they are put in return to that... “ You have to check on a particular job inspectorate how you work, whether you’ve not caught too much... too much load!’ And so on, and so on. It is a medical approach in a very, very rough manner. Because no one really did you, as you did not get behind the tongue - then, a year ago, these amendments to the Health Finance Act. You have self-proclaimed this wage increase, you have advertised yourself everywhere - in social networks and in news - telling you that you will finally put this pay system in place. So when the budget came in... time of budgeting, you will of course in the shrubs if. Then I apologized. And then, when the doctors rightly began to ask for the execution of the law, what did you do? You started addressing them. Then really started this campaign against doctors, highlighting once again some doctors who get too much, in your view, and also a campaign against doctors, counting on how much they had worked there or whether they had not processed them. Dear colleagues, especially colleagues from Development/About! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is, well, the worst thing you could do at all in this situation. And of course we will follow. We also foresee that probably soon, based on the various studies and calculations you have carried out, you will come up with information on the fact that, yes, the Health Finance Act needs to be amended back and everything... and in this way you will simply remove this tension, remove this load from you and continue to live. That is why, of course, I will also support this request. This is the greatest cruelty of 13. The Saeima has done so, and it must be responsible for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U23	Name to Member Janis Krishan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U24	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We have probably done things like this and have not said anything about the consequences. And the consequences today are that we don't understand what that doctor really is. How many times can I remind you that a medical professional is what awaits us in this world and is also accompanying us. And what is today? Today is Day 9. Go to any region, go to clinic and see - dozens of people are simply not registered with a specialist! Because the rows with some specialists are both for six months and nine months. Really, do these ruling people have no parents or children? Try to write down your children or grandchildren in Riga at the Children's Hospital with some specialists, and you will see that it is no longer possible today. With these promises... By giving it and failing to do it, we have sent a medical signal that they have to leave the country. What are we... Is that so? And is there anything we have today... Is that so? You look... Doctors know what colleagues are. If today all doctors who are pensioners leave, then in Latvia practically the medicine stops. I can't understand what even more important priorities are about human health and life, because every medical professional who works and processes his or her hours can save lives every day as well... Every citizen of our country who has health problems without a specialist may also lose out to our country. I therefore say once again: think about the consequences, and what we have done must definitely be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U25	I closed the debate. Please... In the name of the commission, do you have something to say?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U26	On behalf of the Commission, I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U27	Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 35, it's against - 55, it's not. The request was rejected. Thank you. Next - Member Julia Stepanenko... I'm sorry! Member Viktors Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis, Dana Reiznieces–Ozolas, Gundars Dauges, Māra Kučinska, Jūlia Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzems and Didžas Šmits apply to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “On information campaign of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Puces”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U28	The Panel examined the request made by Members Viktoras Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis, Dana Reizniece-Ozolas, Gundars Dauges, Māra Kučinska, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzems and Didžas Šmits to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On Information Campaign of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Puces” (No. 23/P13), document No. 1763 and, by voting six for, nine against, admitted that Members' request should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U29	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U30	Colleagues! Nothing can be better than an information campaign if the government, the Members and the local authorities explain to the public what they are doing about the decisions they make and how they relate to the life of society today and how it will apply to its life tomorrow. Now... This request was written by Krišjānis Kariņš. If he doesn't notice in his daily work, then... A large part of society - particularly at the end of last year - had noticed a very specific type of campaign, which took place on television, on internet apps and on social networks - about how good administrative territorial reform will be. I'm sure it'll be good. But if we inform you about something in the information campaign... We see that the Ministry of Health is doing exactly the same thing, but they are really informing about what is changing, what tariffs are changing, to which a person can apply, to which cannot apply. Very specific things. In this case, the information campaign is such that Juris Pūce tells us: people, say to reform “for”! I... I do not know how you colleagues, but I personally do not perceive it as anything like a pre-election campaign. Of course, it is not a pre-election time, but it is nevertheless a pre-election campaign for state budget money. Currently, the parties have been granted funding. If you want to do campaigning so much, to support, to tell you how good one thing is at political level, please do it, but do it for the party money, not for the state budget. In this case, the resources that have been allocated to inform us of the benefits of administrative territorial reform. Citizens have the right to know what the benefits will be. Citizens have the right to know the answers to those questions. But now the public information phone is being run, to which the answers vary from call to call when calling and asking questions. And all the more - different from what the Minister himself says. Colleagues! That's funny. And the Prime Minister... This request was accurate for the Prime Minister, even though he opened his eyes and saw what his government minister was doing. In particular, budget means making their political campaign. And in these campaigns on administrative territorial reform, there was an absolute zero explanation. Nothing was explained there. It just said, “Tell the reform “for”!” Like Development/About! the name of the fraction. Colleagues! I do not accept such ridicule about the understanding of Latvian laws and regulations. And that's why we wrote that request. But does this request to Karin if you reject it... Is it worth the depression? I don't think so right now. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) But Minister Puce is doing everything he can to earn his commission. And to my surprise... Colleagues, we've already seen a request from Pucem... Not alone. And if we talk about the principles of good governance, about what we want to apply to both state-owned companies and municipal capital companies, which are so much loved to talk to coalition representatives, then there is one important thing here: public procurement. And if the Minister also likes to talk about good governance, then in this case... The Minister has repeatedly, and to my surprise, in this case too, probably failed to respect the basic norms of the Public Procurement Act and is doing what no other advertiser has previously allowed. Just say that an emergency, and then call what you want, your friends, no matter what... If we are talking about experts or advertising specialists, colleagues - these who have been chosen are undoubtedly not the only ones in Latvia who are involved in providing such services. If there is an emergency, there are also accelerated regimes in emergency situations, but not so much that you just call... I don't care. your self-selected colleagues... And they're not stories about some thousand... Two, five... Ten thousand... It's about hundreds... Thousands are talking, where you just buy by nature without a competition. And if these concerns turn out to be true, then Minister Puce will really have earned a request for a commission. What is more, this is also a dedication to Mr Kariņš: he should, for himself, assess whether he should not demand a resignation to the minister concerned for a deliberate and repeated violation of the law, in particular by acting with the public
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U31	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U32	Colleagues, I will also call on you to support this request. Moreover, this demand, in fact, is about what the new parties were addressing... at least during pre-elections. At that time the story was about municipal newspapers, municipal leaders who used municipal funds to advertise themselves in some way. Here we go! The new Saeima has reached a new level, and we are not talking about municipal leaders and municipal funds, but the same thing that happened before is currently happening at ministerial level and public funds. And now you're saying it's all right. Well... Looks like a double moral. But if for figures, this campaign has cost around EUR 220 000, at least this was the planned budget. The aim of the campaign was to serve the people who call... So the primary objective. And those calls... Well, I don't know what happened at the end of the campaign, but... Maybe more than a thousand calls. The question is how efficiently these funds have been spent. I have to agree that this really looked like a Mr. Puce campaign, a pre-election campaign, and also a Development/About! campaigns... I call for support for the request because I do not think it is acceptable and that... Even as the non-professional says, it is obvious that this is not a story of administrative territorial reform, but a story of political party advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U33	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U34	Dear colleagues, This request is not the only one today for Mr Pouce. Then you'll also see that... This is an indication that Mr Puce is probably running the Ministry on the basis of this: what is more interesting, he will also switch to it. And so the party on administrative territorial reform is obviously much more interesting and much more delicious than, for example, dealing with uninteresting things like other reforms that the Ministry had to carry out, which, of course, cannot make such films, campaigns and various broadcasts, so it is also clear that the Minister, in our opinion, is likely to have wasted public funds to carry out these measures. Indeed, without making any information to the public, which would have added value, but quite the contrary. Even a little bit maybe even trying to set up the people of the regions below... below about yourself, pointing out that, well, you see, sometime people were afraid of also electricity. And you fools are just as afraid of administrative territorial reform! Such advertising may be more offensive than informational, and it is also, of course, another proof that the Minister is thinking less of information, either, some informational burden in its messages, but more so, indeed, of showing and spreading. At the time, it was even afraid to open the Internet because any news or social network immediately came out... jumping out of the pile with your own... with its advertising campaigns. It really was obvious everywhere and for everyone. Of course, also the question that remains... what remains unanswered is whether it could really be that... Now, by joining what Mr. Valain said... also the fact that these purchases were made without a tender... Could it be that the advertising campaign, the information campaign that Mr. Pouce has launched... Didn't this campaign be formed by the same company that helped Development/Par! To be elected to the Saeima? That, of course, would also be an issue that should be assessed by the relevant authorities. And I think this will not be the only demand for Mr Puce's information campaign and the use of legitimate public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U35	The name of the Member, Kaspars-Girgen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U36	Hello, colleagues! I'd like to put a little bit of this emotion aside... Since the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission of the Saeima has already sent letters on 7 November 2019. One of the letters is addressed to the Anti-Corruption Office. And a letter has been received that the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau has requested additional information from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, so we will respond after receiving and evaluating the additional information requested. So from 7 November... A letter has been written. The answer has not yet been received. In the same way, a letter has been sent to the Procurement Monitoring Office on 7 November. And the Procurement Monitoring Office provided information that it had initiated administrative infringement proceedings. And additional information will be provided later. I therefore call, however, for this request not to be supported at the moment and for a letter from the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption and the Procurement Monitoring Office to be awaited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U37	Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U38	Dear President, Dear Members, We cannot, of course, dismiss ministers on the basis of social surveys, but it is no coincidence that Mr Puce is the second most unpopular Latvian minister at the moment. According to SKDS, he takes exactly the second place... with an anti-rating... 30 percent... First place in that anti-rating... Now is Ilze Viņķele from Development/About! I think it is very interesting why such a party with its reforms is so unpopular. I'm also an active networking officer, but I do my own damage in networks. No one is doing it in my place, and none is doing it. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) taxpayers do not waste their money on it. That is why I can only wish Mr Puce to be more active in networking, to publish pictures of cats, of his relatives, rather than to lie to people about administrative territorial reform. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U39	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for a Member Viktoras Valaiņa, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Gundars Dauges, Māra Kučinska, Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzems and Didžas Šmits' request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš About the Information Campaign of Juris Puces, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 33, against - 54, abstaining - not. The request was rejected. Thank you, Mr. Pugas. Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Didža Šmita, Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzema, Janis Dūklavs, Jānis Vucanas, Armands Krauze, Dana Reiznieces–Ozola, Viktors Valaiņa and Ulda Plant protection and Regional Development Minister Juris Pūcem “On actions of the Minister delaying the inclusion of administrative responsibility in laws on environmental protection and radioactive safety”. Member Mārtiņš Staķis on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U40	Good morning, colleagues! The Commission examined that request. Minister Juris Puce himself had arrived. I would remind you that this is in principle a process of decoding, where 90 draft laws, as we know, have been examined, 20 are not, including the said draft law. Mr Pouce said that the draft law had been tabled for harmonisation and that there is currently quite a difficult coordination with other sectoral ministries, and obviously both the executive, the civil service and the decision-making power had been too optimistic to set 1 January as the date for the decoding process to be completed, so this Saeima has also decided that the deadline will be extended. The Request Commission has therefore rejected the request from these Members by 10 votes against, 5 in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U41	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U42	Dear colleagues, I want to explain to you... explain to you, as well as to the general public, the situation we are currently looking at. At the end of last year, to be precise, at the end of November, it was known to the general public that the legislator... and the legislator suddenly got known that the administrative... the reform of administrative responsibility cannot be carried out within the time planned. Thus, it will not be possible to enter into force the Law on Administrative Responsibility and the laws providing for administrative liability (more than 120 laws) with effect from 1 January 2020 - as was planned in the past. First of all, it became known to the public only one and a half... almost one and a half months before the planned date of entry into force, and most interesting, and Members too... in most... became aware of this situation only a short time before the date of entry into force. In the Legal Commission, too, we urgently prepared and examined this extension in two readings, and everything seems... perhaps, it seems that such really irrelevant information, a non-essential situation, would perhaps not cause any indignation to the general public unless there were three moments in this request that I wanted to talk about. So the first moment: as you know, the ministries responsible had to prepare appropriate amendments to the sectoral laws, which provided for administrative responsibility to carry out this decoding - to carry out all violations of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia from the Soviet Union. As the Ministry of Justice has been responsible for this reform several times, many times, according to the information contained in the annex (I am talking about an annotation of this draft law that we... which we extended the entry into force until July of this year, has encouraged the responsible ministries to arrange for their action and the draft laws under their responsibility so that this reform, this decoding, is indeed carried out in time. There were ministries that had done a great job, and there were ministries (as we discovered at the end of last year), which did not have the utmost time to put the draft laws at their disposal and under their responsibility in line with the requirements. And it's important... So the first moment. It is important that the draft laws under the authority of the VAR are very serious draft laws. We are talking here about responsibility for violations such as violations of radiation and nuclear safety regulations, environmental violations (e.g. exit of dunes)... or treatment with ionising radiation which may cause significant damage to human health. It is such an infringement that is the case, and it was such an infringement that the VARAM did not, in principle, ignore its action without preparing the relevant amendments to sectoral legislation to accompany the reform of that administrative responsibility. That's one. Let us say, the importance of these violations. This shows that either the ministry really does not really care about radiation safety and environmental protection, or it simply is such a negligence on the part of the minister. In either case, it does not look good. The second moment I would like to say about is that this negligence and this here... such a careless attitude towards its responsibilities shows that the Ministry can not only delay this reform, but also, for example, initiate infringement proceedings, as it has already begun with regard to... The European Commission has provided information at the end of last year that the Commission has already started taking appropriate action to launch infringement proceedings against Latvia on the issue of biodiversity. And there is already a letter to VARAM about Latvia's infringement of the relevant directive. That is the second question. In principle, failure to act by this ministry can lead to serious consequences, especially in view of the fact that the ministry is probably still... However, the Minister is in some way managing the ministry, but not in those issues where the ministry should work, namely, on these issues that I have referred to; the Minister is more really choosing to "balt" with administrative reform, to advertise in the media, as we have just spoken, and of course also to think and dream of dismissal and extension of the term of office of Members. It is much more interesting than getting things arranged by the Ministry. And finally. The most embarrassing moment that I think society must be made aware of is the third moment that the Minister has lied. And the minister lied publicly. He's lied to De Facto, which means virtually all of society. Because, as I told you, it became public at the end of November last year... So on 24 November 2019 the program “De Factoro” came out, and the Minister explained to the public why, let's say... and what is happening to the laws that the mayor has delayed. The Minister replied: “We have submitted draft laws for harmonisation. At present, there is a very difficult coordination with other sectoral ministries. And we hope that, in these weeks, we will succeed in overcoming this inertia that has been a little bit introduced into this official harmonisation." Of course, you can... You can already try to put the blame on the officials and some complicated harmonisation process, but this information is very simple to check by contacting the responsible ministries working on these draft laws. And, in fact, there is no problem with this harmonisation. The problem is that it is simply a time-limit, either there is some kind of abuse, in order to avoid anticipating responsibility for these offences. And why do I say that the minister lied? Because this information came out on 24 November, but these relevant draft laws we're talking about, which the Minister wasn't... had not prepared, was placed on the Ministry's website. That means that the draft laws were submitted, in simple words, just... 28 November 2019 - Amendments to the Law on Radiation Safety and Nuclear Safety, 29 November - Amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection. So it means that when telling information about the De Factoro program on 24 November, Minister Juris Pūce has expressed false news, which in fact he himself has admitted in the Commission of Petitions, but called it not about lying, but about such a technical mistake. So, honourable colleagues! These three moments, these lies, this negligence, this careless attitude towards quite important and serious violations is... Well, once again, one more negative description of the work of the minister and the fact that the minister chooses to manage the ministry only on matters of interest to him and which can bring some dividends and pleasant moments. If we remember, for example, the budgetary process, then nothing did prevent the Minister as a matter of urgency... urgently prepare amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax to provide for higher salaries in the Ministry to rob the municipality in the field of natural resources tax. This in no way prevented the Minister from preparing amendments... those amendments that concern him most. But, of course, these boring amendments, which are simply meant to sort out the system, are left in the scene. Like amendments to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats. It's not interesting, it can't get any... no additional means. So, honourable colleagues, judge yourself and look, of course, at the work of the ministries. I very much hope that this negligence, this lie and this practically irresponsible act will be punished early or late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U43	I closed the debate. Do you want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U44	I would just remind you that, having listened to the questions of the applicants and the replies of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Commission recognised by 10 votes against and only 5 votes in favour that the request should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U45	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Didža Šmita, Karina Sprūde, Alda Gobzema, Jānis Dūklava, Jānis Vucanas, Armands Krauze, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Viktors Valaiņa and Ulda Plant protection and Regional Development Minister Juris Pūcem “On the Action of the Minister in Postponing Administrative Responsibility in the Laws on Environmental Protection and Radio Safety”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 34, against - 55, abstaining - not. The request was rejected. The next request is a request from Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Ulda Augulis, Armanda Krauze, Gundars Dūtes, Didžas Šmita, Janis Dūklavs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Alda Gobzems and Janis Vucanas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūcem, about the self-governance of the Minister, setting up the Central Electoral Commission and publicly misleading society. Member of the Commission of the European Union Uldis Budriķis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U46	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, The Panel examined the request submitted by Members to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Juris Pącem, “On the Unlawfulness of the Minister when setting up the Central Electoral Commission and publicly misleading society”. The minister himself attended the meeting of the Commission and also the head of the Central Electoral Commission, Mrs Berzins. First of all, I would like to emphasise that the debate and the dispute were about the fact that the Minister of “Riga TV24” has spoken about the fact that he has consulted the Central Electoral Commission. The head of the Central Electoral Commission denies that she has been set up. The Commission, by voting (2 for, 9 against and 1 abstentions), recognised that this request from Members should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U47	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U48	Dear colleagues, In this request too, most likely we... We will have to deal with the provision of false information or lying, and there will also be another interesting moment that I will also want to touch. So it's about the fact that before the issue of the extension of the emergency situation in the Riga City Council arose... On 3 December last year Minister Juris Pūce said in the TV24 programme “Daily Personality With Velta Puriņš” that he strongly denys – strongly denys! - the fact that she, in cooperation with the CEC, has a visible interest in the extraordinary elections of the Riga City Council in relation to the dismissal of the Riga City Council. He denied it and said: “We are talking about the time limits for organising municipal elections, we are planning and have already worked for some time on the regulation that would have been the case if the municipal council were dismissed, what time limits should be respected, because the law does not currently set the time limits for elections. We are simply discussing what the practical calendar is, from the CEC's point of view." So with these words, Minister Puce tried to justify that in no case this consultation was related to the dismissal of the Riga City Council. However, already two days later, on 5 December, the report of the LETA agency shows that these consultations on a possible election date have already taken place with the CEC and there have already been two different dates on the agenda - 29 February or 22 February. I remind you that December 5 is the date which is well earlier than the date by which the Cabinet of Ministers and the Saeima had prepared a decision on the extension of the emergency situation in Riga in the context of the waste crisis... co-administration with That's why... This means that the Minister had some plans that he never wanted to reveal to the public, but he tried to implement the plan by actually putting in place - I think - the leadership of the CEC, how to come to his house and ask: ‘Well, what date will we put?’ And why am I saying that? In its reply, the Minister freely admitted that the consultations with the CEC on the possible time limits required for organising the extraordinary municipal elections had taken place on 24 November. 24 November 2019! And if you look at the calendar, 24 November 2019 is, honourable colleagues, Sunday. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) It's Sunday! And that means that really Minister Juris Puce is setting up a Central Electoral Commission for his liking even on holiday. Doesn't that really, honourable colleagues, say... it does not indicate that the Minister in this situation is simply... with absolutely, well, the law-independent institution tries to act as simply... How about your... with his property? Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call on you, too, to support this request, given that... also the information you have just heard and that which is written in this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U49	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, do you add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U50	On behalf of the Commission, I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U51	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the request made by Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Karina Sprūde, Ulda Augulis, Armands Krauze, Gundars Dūtes, Didžas Šmita, Jānis Dūklavs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Alda Gobzems and Janis Vucanas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pācem, about the Minister's autonomy in setting up the Central Electoral Commission and publicly misleading society! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request was rejected. Colleagues! It's time for an intermediate. Please check-in mode! Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U52	Not registered: Gatis Eglitis, Inese Ikstena, Andris Kazinovskis, Andrejs Klementjevs... Yes, Richard Kohl (Interface: “No!” Ināra Mūrniece, Romanas Nadiņš, Linda Ozola, Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U53	Thank you. Between 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U54	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! We shall proceed to the proceedings of the sitting. Changes to the agenda for the Bureau meeting were tabled. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “What a surprise!” ) Members Arturs Toms Plēšs, Aldis Adamovičs, Dace Bluķe, Raivis Dzintars, Mārtiņš Bondars, Juta Strīķe, Daniels Pavļuts, Ainars Latkovskis, Artuss Kaimiņš and Ilze Indriksone have submitted a draft decision on the draft law “On the Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council” (No. 530/Lp13, urgent) change of the date of the session of the Saeima from 16 January 2020 to 13 February 2020.’ Do Members object to the agenda... ‘ Against’... Who will speak against, please? Member Valainis? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondar: 'will you really speak 'no'?' ) Please! ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U55	Yes, colleagues! A perfectly natural proposal based on your policy, but yet... If someone has to be released and if there is confidence that it has violated the law, and if there is confidence that a new council will be able to prevent those violations and do everything in accordance with the law and without infringing the laws that you believe they have violated, then... in such a case, such a council must be released as soon as possible. In this case... the proposal is to postpone this date. I think there's nothing... in general, any reasonable justification. The Saeima has fired such an interest... This has always happened unanimously, and there has been no discussion about it. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) The law has been violated. If the law has been violated, the Saeima evaluates the case, evaluates the committee responsible, and always, without exception, the Saeima has released such a thought. And the question to you is, why do you think that if you think it has violated the laws... Why did you not do this last year, but are you still doing this? And where is that emergency situation in the dismissal of the council? It only shows that its dome is fired with political motivation and has nothing to do with any violations of the law; it is about imagined violations which, unfortunately, you have not been able to fully justify even the Saeima's Legal Office. For the second reading, only opposition proposals have been submitted to this draft law. And in essence, what you were asked to explain and justify is to justify even more the justification for the dismissal of the Council... Such proposals are not reflected at second reading. And I think this delay is completely out of place at the moment. If there's an emergency situation and the council has to be released, then the council has to be released, and that's it! So what are we still doing here? Let's make a decision faster! And the question: why didn't you take it last year - as you planned? No council dismissals in the Saeima have been wearing for months! If an infringement has occurred, what are we towed along the length?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's vote right away! What's going to change? Colleagues are already at work, ready to vote. Colleagues, where's the problem? I call on you to reject this decision and move forward with the decision already taken by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U56	Daniel Pavluts, a Member, has applied for the floor. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Successful, energetic and contentful year 2020! I have to say that the intersessional break has been a good one. Recreation has been successful, thoughts have changed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “We are voting now!” ) Valainis, a colleague who has voted against the urgent introduction of the law on the “Law on the dismissal of Riga City Council” directly before the holidays, is now... calls on us to move this issue forward as a matter of urgency. Basically, then... If I had known, Victor, maybe... But we didn't know that things had changed. Now, by nature. Why do we still need to give more time now to consider this draft law? These are the same arguments used by the opposition on 19 December to argue why there is no need for urgency. At that time, we voted for urgency, because indeed, the issue we believe requires a rapid decision, because there is a continuing tumult in the Riga City Council. That is what we see. literally yesterday, last night... The barrack continues in the Riga Council, as the opposition would say. There's some blinking with the foundations, not budgeting and so on, and so on. Riga City Council needs new elections. However, given that we have received objections to the haste, the Legal Bureau and Members have also said that the legal basis should be properly discussed, that there should be any doubts about the fact that there is sufficient legal basis for the legal dismissal of the Riga City Council, which is appropriate to the Satversme, then, in our view, it is absolutely justified and rational to extend this time, to give the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission an opportunity to thoroughly discuss these issues. I would ask my fellow Members to take this issue seriously. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valaiņš’ intermediate call.) Because those proposals, Victor... The proposals that you have made for the second reading would, of course, be part of an anecdotal section of the weekly magazine. I think so. , we will have a good pleasure, but my fellow Members, respect for the matter under consideration does not indicate that. So that we take the matter seriously, please, we take it seriously. Move to the edge! Riga City Council, the interests of Riga residents are not any joke. It's a city with a billion budget. Please treat it with the seriousness of the legislator. But now I started to sound like Mrs Stepanenko in my morality, and that's probably not good. Another argument. I'm also resting, yeah. Another argument. As we know, the opposition, including Mr Valaiņa, has collected a whole series of signatures to prevent the publication of two laws that we passed before the holidays at the second, final reading, on changes in the electoral system of municipalities, namely that in the case of emergency elections, the municipality could be elected for a longer period of time, for a combined term. Well, signatures are being collected at this point (Interface: “No more!” ), not yet. So it's been announced... The Central Electoral Commission has announced the collection of signatures. It will cost about million. Thank you, opposition. ( Milestones.) Okay. If democracy pays for it, then it pays for it. That is the decision of the opposition. In this case, let us give people the opportunity to speak, to determine whether they really want to delay and delay this decision, which the Saeima has made, for the right to elect a longer term, and look! I think it is also worth electing the Riga City Council after the deadline that will then be in force. So here too, I think I should give the opportunity to Latvian society to express their democratic will, so this is another additional argument in favour of changing the review date at second reading for the draft law “The Riga City Council’s Dismissal Law”. Please include the draft decision in the agenda!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U58	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Arthur Tomas Plesa, Alda Adamoviča, Daces Bluķe, Raivja Dzintara, Mārtiņš Bondara, Juta Strīķe, Daniela Pavļuta, Ainara Latkovska, Arthur Neimina (Interface: “Artusa!” ) and the draft decision of Ilze Indricsone on the draft law “Law on the dismissal of Riga City Council” (No. 530/Lp13, urgent) review date of the Saeima sitting from 16 January 2020 to 13 February 2020”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is on the agenda. We're going on with the law. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Boris Cilevičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U59	Dear colleagues, No proposal has been submitted for third reading to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media””. On behalf of the Commission, I propose to support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U60	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Press and Other Media”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Anti-Corruption Office”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U61	Hello, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Combating of Corruption” provides for two mechanisms to improve the operation of the Office. The first mechanism shall cover disciplinary offences committed by staff members. The new amendments provide for the introduction of a case such as a warning, which would not constitute a disciplinary penalty. And the second question concerns the processing of personal data. The Commission has examined this draft law at its meeting on 17 December... Last year... and supported conceptually. I therefore call on the Commission to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U62	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Anti-Corruption Office”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft act was approved at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U63	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 February 2020.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U64	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Thank you. The first reading of the draft law “On disposal of the real estate “Jaunduviņas” in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, for public needs – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P53 Duchiu-Limbaži” On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Jānis Butāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U65	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 17 December 2019, the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality, – the National Regional Road (The Hall Noise) was discussed. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) P53 Duči-Limbazi for the implementation of the reconstruction project’. National regional road P53 Duči-Limbazi section 18,35. -26,15. For a kilometre reconstruction project it is necessary to dispose of the part of the land unit of the real estate “Jaunduviņas” within an area of 0,3 ha and a part of the area of 0,01 ha... in the novads of Limbažu, the pagasti of Limbažu. These parts of the real estate are disposed of for the development of transport infrastructure and the disposal is the only way to achieve this objective. The owner of real estate does not agree with the division and disposal of the property necessary for the implementation of the reconstruction project, nor has he expressed an opinion on the amount of remuneration calculated. On 4 April 2019, the State Joint Stock Company “State Roads of Latvia” sent a notice to the owner of real estate in accordance with Article 11 of the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate required for the needs of the Company, inviting the owner to notify within 30 days of the receipt thereof of the possibility to conclude an agreement on the voluntary disposal of real estate. After the notification referred to above, no reply to the notification sent was received from the owner of the immovable property within the time limit set by the Law on the disposal of the immovable property necessary for the needs of the Company. Also, no reply was received from the owner of the real estate after the re-notification. The Legal Commission has supported the first reading of the draft law. I call on my colleagues to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U66	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On disposal of parts of real estate in Limbažu municipality, Limbažu municipality – implementation of the reconstruction project of the National Regional Road P53 Duchiu-Limbaži”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U67	The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U68	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 31 January this year. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhena‐Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U69	Hello! The Parliament’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission discussed for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”. It has been developed to improve the legal framework in the field of tax administration, following the proposals made by the State Revenue Service, as well as the tasks included in the State Tax Policy Guidelines for 2018-2021 to reduce administrative burden and introduce transparency of information and public participation. The Commission supported the first reading. I call on my fellow Members to support the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U70	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U71	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 31 January of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U72	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 31 January this year. Thank you. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Maritime Code’, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U73	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We are working on the draft law on amendments to the Maritime Code (No. 479/Lp13), first reading. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Transport to adopt amendments to directives and international conventions in national legislation, as well as to update the norms of the Maritime Code in line with the problems found in practice. The draft law provides for the introduction of a new chapter in the Maritime Code, which would include provisions on the employment of fishermen, as well as a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to issue rules on the special employment issues of fishermen. The implementation of the project will be ensured by the State Joint Stock Company “Latvian Maritime Administration” and the Ministry of Agriculture. The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I invite you to do so, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U74	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law amending the Maritime Code. Please vote mode! Please the result of the vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U75	Deadline for submission of proposals - 23 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U76	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 23 January this year. Thank you. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on General Education’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Anita Muižniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U77	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” (No. I would like to remind you briefly of what the draft law is about before I see the proposals examined by the Commission13. So in 2018, the previous government adopted and the Saeima supported amendments to the law, which stipulated that with 1 September of this year the school... basic education institutions implementing some deep-down programmes, whether it be language learning or music or art, would therefore not receive any funding from the state budget for the implementation of these programmes. In conclusion, the draft law "Amendments to the General Education Act" was drawn up last year in order to correct this, in other words, the shortcomings and possible threats. We have now examined at third reading... proposals received before the third reading. All in all, they were nine. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau on the procedure in which educational institutions may qualify for the receipt of funds from the state budget for the implementation of the training programmes which provide for (Room noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) achieving higher learning outcomes. Partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U78	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U79	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It has been developed in cooperation with both the Legal Bureau and the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as the educational institutions themselves. And, as I said about proposal 1, this is the procedure by which schools will be able to apply for state budget funds. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U81	Proposal 3 is a proposal from the Legal Office. Applies to transitional provisions and is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U83	4. there is also a technical proposal which excludes point 42 of the transitional provisions proposed in the draft law and expresses point 43 as point 42. It has been supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U85	5. is the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science Muižniece. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal. This is a phase between 2020 and 2023. Education institutions will be covered by the new criteria in 2023. In order to avoid interruptions in the allocation and receipt of funding, Proposal No 5 and Proposals Nos 6 and 7 also talk about it. And... Well, yes, the Commission has been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U87	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's like the previous one. This is also partly supported by the Commission and included in proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U89	7. - the proposal of the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which defines more precisely the wording of the transitional provisions of the two previous proposals. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U91	8 / 8 - a proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science on the time of entry into force of the law, stating that it is 1 February 2020. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U93	And exactly the same is 9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U95	We have therefore examined all the proposals received at the third reading of the draft law. Please support the draft law at final reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U96	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the General Education Act, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please the result of the vote. No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U98	Thank you. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones’, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U99	Good afternoon, honourable and honorable colleagues! Happy new year for all of us! This draft law has been drafted due to the need to improve the norms of the law and, above all, to create a form of support for the creation of new jobs in Latgale Special Economic Zone and Rezekne Special Economic Zone. 76 proposals have been tabled for second reading in the draft legislative act. Proposal No 1 - Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pleis. Partly supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U100	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U101	2. - the proposal from Members Eglišs, Kursīte, Teirumnieks, Kazinovska and Rancāns. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U102	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U103	3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U105	4. there is a proposal from Members Eglišs, Kursīte, Teirumnieks, Kazinovska and Rancana (hereinafter I would call - the group of Members). Partly supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U106	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U107	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U109	6. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U111	7. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U113	8 / 8 - a proposal from a group of Members. It is not supported because it duplicates the proposed text.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U114	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U115	9. - a proposal from a group of Members. Neither has it been supported because the draft law has been duplicated.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U116	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U117	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Pleis. Partially supported, included 3 and 11. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U118	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U119	11. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U121	12. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U123	13. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U125	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U126	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U127	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from a group of Members. It is not supported because it duplicates the proposed text.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U128	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U129	16. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U131	17. - a proposal from a group of Members. Partially supported, included 18. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U133	18. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U135	19. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Pleis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U137	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from a group of Members. It is not supported because it duplicates the proposed text.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U138	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U139	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U141	22. - a proposal from a group of Members. It is not supported because it duplicates the proposed text.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U142	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U143	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U145	24. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U147	25. - a proposal from a group of Members. Partially supported, included 26. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U149	26. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U151	27. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U153	28. - a proposal from a group of Members. Partially supported, included 29. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U155	29. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U157	30. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U159	31. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U161	32. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U163	33. - Dombrovskis's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U164	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U165	Dear colleagues, My best wishes in the new year and all that. That's a question for me. Until we have adopted the new National Development Plan, the old, so-called, right? At least your coalition, as far as I remember, has not changed it. Therefore, the current National Development Plan is also in place to increase the share of manufacturing industry in gross domestic product to 20 percent. Right? It shall apply. You too... many of you have talked a lot about creating new jobs in manufacturing, promoting manufacturing and so on. That's it. Colleagues, then it is clear that one of the ways you could promote the processing industry is to attract foreign investment. It's also quite logical. Then you also need to understand what are the rules of the game, how to attract its foreign investment directly to the processing industry. Because we... clearly, we are not the only country that is trying to do so. There are quite a number of such countries in the world at all. The absolute minimum is the so-called industrial zone. That is, no investor will now come to invest in a green meadow. He needs a minimal complex - a piece of land, adequate electricity connection, infrastructure (transport, communications) and so on. What is Latvia's experience? With us all growth in manufacturing takes place mostly in SEZ - Ventspils, Liepaja, Rezekne. In general, there is no particular growth in industry in the country. So, what do investors value? Once again, colleagues, an industrial zone as such, a minimum... We have these areas... outside Riga - Liepaja, Ventspils, Rezekne, Jelgava. There are also Lithuania, Poland, Belarus... more than one zone. Investors assess access to transport infrastructure. We are not the only country with ports. Lithuania has ports, Poland has ports. Others... Belarus has access at least to the same port of Klaipeda. So here we do not differ from our competitors in Poland, Belarus, Lithuania. Go on. Labour - availability, quality, cost. Our workforce is cheaper, Poland, Lithuania, Belarus - the same way. In terms of availability... We are talking here about the fact that we have a workforce - skilled and accessible. So when we talk about accessibility, we have a population... For example, Rezekne SEZ... Access to labour. Within a radius of 50 kilometres, the population is 84,000. For comparison. If we are talking about Lithuania, none of Lithuania's six SEZs have a population of less than 200 thousand inhabitants 50 kilometres from SEZ. If we're talking about Poland, we're talking about millions. In Belarus there is no SEZ... the population within this radius shall not be less than one million inhabitants. So, with regard to labour availability, we are losing every of our regional competitors - Lithuania, Poland and Belarus. Quality. It's clear that the SEZ needs... those who learn in so-called ‘STEM’ specialities. In Latvia, the number of STEM graduates in higher education institutions - 3000, in Lithuania - more than 7000, in Poland - 111 thousand, in Belarus - 50 thousand. In terms of quality, too, we are losing. In other words, if we are talking about attracting foreign investment, then we are losing our workforce. We are nothing better with access to transport infrastructure. Consequently, if we want to create at least one advantage, we need to create it in the area of taxation. The nature of the proposal, colleagues, is very simple - to align our offer in the field of taxation at least to Lithuania. Otherwise we are worse in every dimension that... is interested in foreign investors. Therefore, if you are interested in attracting investment in regions, industry, support this proposal! Otherwise... As the commission said at the sitting, it does not support because it does not like the OECD. Then what is more worrying about you - the jobs or whether it likes or does not like the OECD?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U166	Mr Dombrovskis, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U167	Colleagues, your choice! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U168	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of proposal 33 of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Dombrovskis’ intermediate call. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) The proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U169	Proposal No 34 Instead of the Minister of Finance, it was presented by Minister of Foreign Affairs Rinkēvičs. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U171	Proposal No 35. Instead of the Minister of Finance, Minister of Foreign Affairs Rinkēvičs presented. The proposal has been partly supported and included in 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U173	36. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U175	37. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U177	38. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U179	39. - a proposal from a group of Members. Partially supported, included 42. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U180	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U181	40. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported by 42. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U183	41. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported by 42. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U185	42. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U187	43. - a proposal from a group of Members. It is not supported because it duplicates the proposed text.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U188	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U189	44. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U191	45. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U193	46. - a proposal from a group of Members. It is not supported because it duplicates the proposed text.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U194	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U195	47. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U197	48. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U199	49. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U201	50. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U203	51. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U205	52. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U207	53. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U209	54. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U211	55. - a proposal from a group of Members. Not supported. It is not put to the vote, as it has already been supported in proposal 54.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U212	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U213	Proposal 56 - Group of Members' proposal It is not supported because it has already been supported in proposal 54.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U214	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U215	57. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U217	58. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U219	59. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U221	60. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U223	61. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U224	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U225	62. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U227	63. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U229	64. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U231	65. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U233	66. - a proposal from a group of Members. Partially supported, included 67. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U235	67. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U237	68. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, includes 69. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U238	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U239	69. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U241	70. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included 71. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U242	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U243	71. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U245	72. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U247	73. - the proposal by Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rinkēvičs, in place of the Minister for Finance. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U249	74. - a proposal from a group of Members. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U251	75. - a proposal from a group of Members. Partially supported, included 76. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U252	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U253	76. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U255	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined and accepted the draft law and invites to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U256	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones”! Please vote mode! Please the result of the vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U257	The deadline for submitting proposals is 23 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U258	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 23 January this year. Thank you. Draft Law on Trade Marks, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvils Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U259	Hello, dear colleagues! Allow me, too, to congratulate you on the new year. And please see the draft Law on Trade Marks, reviewed by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science and prepared for second reading. Before we start to look at it, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to the Commission, which has examined this draft law in more than five sittings. And I must also say a huge thank you both to the Ministry of Justice, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and representatives of the Supreme Court. Together, we tried to get through the new legal concepts that have now been introduced. And so... This will enable us to implement the European Union directive relating to trade marks in the future and, of course, to improve legislation. The regulatory framework has not been reviewed for a long time so far. Let's see the proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U261	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U263	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U265	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U267	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U269	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U271	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U273	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U275	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U277	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U279	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U281	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U283	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U285	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U287	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U289	16. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U291	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U293	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U295	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U297	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U299	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U301	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U303	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U305	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U307	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported and included 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U308	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U309	26. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U311	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U313	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U315	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U317	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U319	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U320	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U321	32. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U323	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U325	34. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U327	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U329	36. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U331	37. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U332	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U333	38. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U335	39. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U337	40. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U339	41. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U341	42. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U343	43. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U345	44. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U347	45. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U349	46. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported, includes 47. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U350	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U351	47. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U353	48. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U355	49. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 50. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U356	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U357	50. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U359	51. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U361	52. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U363	53. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U365	54. - the proposal by Minister of Finance John Reir. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U367	55. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U369	56. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U371	57. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U373	58. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U375	59. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U376	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U377	60. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U378	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U379	61. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U381	62. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U383	63. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U384	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U385	64. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U387	65. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U389	66. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U391	67. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported, included 68. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U392	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U393	68. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U395	69. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U397	70. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U399	71. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U401	72. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included 73. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U402	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U403	73. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U405	74. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U406	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U407	75. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U408	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U409	76. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U410	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U411	77. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U412	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U413	78. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 80.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U414	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U415	79. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U417	80. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U418	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U419	81. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U420	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U421	82. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U422	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U423	83. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U424	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U425	84. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U426	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U427	85. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U429	86. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in 87. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U430	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U431	87. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U432	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U433	88. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U435	89. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U436	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U437	90. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U439	91. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U440	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U441	92. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U442	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U443	93. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U445	94. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U447	95. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U449	96. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported and included 97. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U450	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U451	97. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U453	98. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U454	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U455	99. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U456	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U457	100. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U459	101. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U461	102. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U463	103. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U464	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U465	104. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U467	105. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U469	106. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U470	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U471	107. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U472	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U473	108. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U475	109. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U476	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U477	110. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U479	111. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U481	112. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U483	113. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U484	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U485	114. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U487	115. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U489	116. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U491	117. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U492	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U493	118. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U495	119. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U497	120. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U498	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U499	121. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U501	122. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported and included 123. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U502	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U503	123. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U505	124. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U507	125. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U508	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U509	126. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U511	127. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U513	128. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U515	129. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U517	130. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U519	131. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U521	132. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U523	133. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U525	134. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U527	135. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U529	136 - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U530	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U531	137. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U532	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U533	138. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U535	And 139. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U536	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U537	140. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U539	141. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U540	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U541	142. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U542	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U543	143. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U544	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U545	144. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U546	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U547	145. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U548	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U549	146. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U550	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U551	147. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U553	148. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U555	149. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included 150. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U556	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U557	150. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U558	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U559	151. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included 152. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U560	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U561	152. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U562	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U563	153. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 154. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U564	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U565	154. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U566	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U567	155. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, incorporated 156. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U568	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U569	156. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U570	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U571	157. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 158. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U572	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U573	158. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U574	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U575	159. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U576	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U577	160. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U578	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U579	161. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U580	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U581	162. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included 163. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U582	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U583	163. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U584	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U585	164. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U586	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U587	165. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U588	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U589	166. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U590	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U591	167. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U592	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U593	168. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 169. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U594	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U595	169. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U596	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U597	170. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported, included 171. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U598	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U599	171. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U600	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U601	172. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U602	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U603	173. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported, includes 174. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U604	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U605	174. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U606	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U607	175. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported, included 176. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U608	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U609	176. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U610	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U611	177. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported, included 178. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U612	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U613	178. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U614	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U615	179. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported, included 180. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U616	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U617	180. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U618	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U619	181. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U620	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U621	182. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported, includes 183. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U622	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U623	183. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U624	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U625	184. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U626	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U627	185. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported, included 186. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U628	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U629	186. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U630	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U631	187. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported, allowed 188. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U632	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U633	188. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U634	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U635	189. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U636	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U637	190. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported, includes 191. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U638	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U639	191. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U640	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U641	192. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported, included 193. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U642	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U643	193. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U644	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U645	194. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported and included in 195. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U646	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U647	195. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U648	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U649	196. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U650	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U651	197. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported and included in 198. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U652	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U653	198. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U654	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U655	199. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U656	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U657	200. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U658	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U659	201 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U660	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U661	202. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U662	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U663	203. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U664	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U665	204. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported and included 205. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U666	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U667	205. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U668	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U669	206. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported and included 208. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U670	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U671	207. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported, included 208. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U672	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U673	208. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U674	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U675	209. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U676	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U677	210. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U678	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U679	211. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U680	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U681	212. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U682	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U683	213. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U684	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U685	214. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U686	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U687	215. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U688	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U689	216. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U690	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U691	217. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U692	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U693	218. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U694	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U695	219. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U696	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U697	220. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U698	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U699	221. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U700	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U701	222. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U702	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U703	223. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U704	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U705	224. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partly supported and included 225. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U706	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U707	225. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U708	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U709	226. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported, included 228. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U710	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U711	227. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Partially supported, included 228. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U712	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U713	228. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U714	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U715	229. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U716	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U717	230. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U718	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U719	231. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U720	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U721	232. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U722	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U723	233. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U724	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U725	234. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U726	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U727	235. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U728	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U729	236. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U730	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U731	237. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U732	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U733	238. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U734	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U735	239. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U736	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U737	240. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Girgen. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U738	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the 240th proposal of the draft law on trade marks! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešina’s synopsis.) Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Proposal 240 rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U739	241. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U740	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U741	242............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U742	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U743	243. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U744	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U745	And 244. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U746	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U747	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call on the Commission to vote on the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U748	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on Trade Marks Act at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Applause) The draft law was adopted at second reading. Thank you, Mr Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U749	Yeah. We still have to make proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U750	Yeah, that's it! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) I wanted to thank you first of all for this marathon. Thank you. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U751	We would like to give enough time - until 15 January - to prepare all those proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U752	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 15 January. Thank you once again to Mr Asheraden. ( The paragraphs are: “This year? ”) , “Next year?” Depp. A. Asheraden: “Safe! ” ) The final item on the agenda is the "Provision of draft decisions". Member Artis Tomas Plesa, Alda Adamoviča, Dace Bluķe, Raivja Dzintara, Mārtiņš Bondara, Juta Strīķe, Daniela Pavļuta, Ainara Latkovska, Artuss Neimina and Ilze Indriksone’s draft decision on the draft law “On the Law on the Dismissal of Riga City Council” (No. 530/Lp13; urgent) change of the date of the session of the Saeima from 16 January 2020 to 13 February 2020.’ Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U753	Hello, colleagues! My speech will be very brief. I want to start with the text that God with all Riga City Council! As he stole it, she would steal it on Mondays as well. There is one more important issue that needs to be addressed today, and I would like to congratulate Janis Izalnieks on the birth of the third boy last night! Let's go! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Izalnieks: “Thank you!” ) Happy! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U754	Thank you. Please, name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U755	I will certainly support this draft decision, because I think that this draft law needs to be debated. And indeed, the proposals we have put forward - they should also be debated well. I also understand many... what I have heard: these accusations about these proposals... Sorry, these proposals are simply to make this measure a reality... Why is this done? Everything is very simple! This is because the Riga City Council is not allowed to fulfil her function, which she is currently doing... what she is doing with waste management; in order to get rid of the Riga City Council and be able to conclude a new agreement on waste management (Dep. ( See K. Feldman's Intersense.) with the same... with the same service providers, just under the political roof of the ruling coalition. And it is very good that we will have a debate on this and there will be an opportunity for you to speak about it and to prove that this is not the case. Thank you. “ Horror! This is terrible!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U756	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! Vote on the draft decision on the draft law “On the Law on the Dismissal of the Riga City Council” submitted by Artūra Tomas Plesa, Alda Adamoviča, Dace Bluķe, Raivja Dzintara, Mārtiņš Bondara, Juta Strike, Daniela Pavļuta, Ainara Latkovska, Artuss Neimina and Ilze Indricsone (No. 530/Lp13; urgent) change of the date of the session of the Saeima from 16 January 2020 to 13 February 2020”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 73, it's against - 9, it's not. The decision has been taken. Thank you. Colleagues! I would also like to take note of the question put by Members Ivars Zarins, Ivans Klementyevs, Edgars Kucins, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Vitalijs Orlovs and Nikolai Kabanovs to the Minister for Economics - "On the action of the Ministry of Economics regarding the determination of benchmarks for "OIC stations" under the Electricity Market Act". This question shall be submitted by Members in accordance with the urgent procedure provided for in the third paragraph of Rule 119 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Do you want to express your motivation? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “No, thank you!” ) No. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Let’s stop working, let’s go home!” ) Yes, so your question is accepted. Consequently, the issues on our agenda today have been dealt with. Please call and check-in mode! Please check-in mode! Please! Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary, Maria Golubeva, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U757	Not registered: Gatis Eglitis, Inese Ikstena, Andris Kazinovskis, Rihards Kols, Ināra Mūrniece, Romanas Naudiņš, Linda Ozola, Dana Reizniece–Ozola and Jānis Vucans.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-09-PT13-2032-U758	Thank you for today's work. I'm closing the sitting.
