ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-12-PT13-2136-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Let us begin the extraordinary meeting on 12 November 2020. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ( Pause) Does one of the Members want to talk about this draft law? Members don't want to talk. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commission responsible? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Ms Jūlija Stepanenko wishes to speak about the procedure. Please open the procedure section. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-12-PT13-2136-U2	Dear colleagues, I already pressed it, yeah... Dear colleagues, To hand over the draft law to the commission, as you see, it takes no more than a minute. A maximum of 10 minutes if there is “for” or “for” is necessary to refer the draft law to the commission with a debate. The Commission may consider this delegated draft law in accordance with its own discretion and with the planning timetable. Members of the parliamentary opposition have submitted several draft laws, including urgent draft laws, more than a week before this sitting, in accordance with... the situation of the Covid-19. It is not clear to me what voluntarily reason the Bureau has avoided placing on the agenda draft laws tabled by the opposition, which have been available to Members for more than a week... for more than the weeks required by the Saeima order roll. This situation is totally unacceptable in a democratic state...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-12-PT13-2136-U3	Thank you, thank you. We're going on. Colleagues, you see that the agenda is extremely ambitious. Today's agenda for the meeting of 12 November is published. We have not yet completed the agenda for the sitting of 5 November, obviously these draft laws are on the agenda for these unfinished sittings. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is celebrated by our fellow Member Evija Papule, and we welcome him! (Applause) Thank you. Next statement. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs plans a hearing. Please turn on the microphone for the Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-12-PT13-2136-U4	Good morning, colleagues! The Social and Labour Affairs Commission will meet immediately... now – two minutes after the end of this sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-12-PT13-2136-U5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, We will follow the work of the Social and Labour Commission. As soon as the Bureau receives documents from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, the Bureau will convene a meeting. You will be informed of the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima today by a text message at least five minutes before the beginning of the sitting. Registration of Members of the sitting is also required. Registration successfully completed. I'm closing the sitting.
