ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U1	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let us look at the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 30 January 2020. Changes tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau Members Budrik, Muižniece, Dzintars, Cielēns, Kols, Nadiņš and Rancāns are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Mr. Ageshin, will you talk about it or 'no'? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešin: ‘ Against!’ ) Mr Valery Agešin, Member of the European Parliament, has applied to speak against. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: Against Inclusion! ) Yes, I understood - against inclusion.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U2	Dear colleagues, Reading this bill, and also annotation, gives the impression that the end of the world is coming. ( Milestones.) I believe that this rather wide-ranging interpretation of the panic norm in society does not need to be rushed forward, and therefore I call not to support the inclusion of a bill on the agenda of today's sitting. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U3	So, colleagues, we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of including the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Rancāns, Budrikis, Riekstins, Jušas and Iesalnieks are asking to exclude the draft law “Amendments to the Asylum Law” and “Amendment to the Immigration Law” from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) So let us vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of excluding from the agenda of the Saeima the draft laws on "Amendments to the Asylum Law" and on "Amendment to the Immigration Law"! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “No one explained anything!” ) Please see the result. No, 47, no, 25, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, both draft laws are from (Interdependence.) The agenda of the sitting is closed. Members Neimens, Blumbergs, Kols, Strīķe, Jurās, Paviluts and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of Member Artuss Neimens to the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit”. Do Members object to these changes to the agenda? Mr. Gobzem will talk about or against? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “The Against!” ) “ Against”. So "no" has applied to speak to Aldis Gobzems. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “No heard long ago!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U4	Hello, fellow Members, again! I call for the 'no' vote for a very simple reason. This is about the audit... Public expenditure and audit commission. I will remind you that Mr. Neighbours (Dep. A. Muižniece: “No inclusion on the agenda!” )... Yes, yes, but the whole question (Interruption: “You can talk afterwards!” )... Please note: Mr. Neighbour is active in criminal proceedings where he is suspected of illegal party financing and of the illegal financial treatment. The Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit would not be the right place for such a person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U5	Colleagues! We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the inclusion on the agenda of the draft decision on the election of Mr Artusa Neminina as a member of the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is thus on the agenda of the sitting. And Members Neimins, Blumbergs, Kols, Strike, Jurās, Paviluts and others are asking for the draft decision on the election of Member Alda Blumbergs to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Let's start looking at the agenda. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Digital Services Tax Law be submitted by the Member Dombrovskis, Reizniece-Ozola, Cileviča, Valaiņa, Stepanenko and Kučinska to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U6	Dear colleagues, The world is changing rapidly, and new global digital companies such as Facebook, Google and others play an increasingly important role in our lives. At the same time, traditional media - both printed and television - are experiencing a state of affairs and are losing their position in the advertising market. In turn, the corporate tax system it has developed a hundred years ago has become obsolete and is no longer capable of ensuring fair taxation. For example, it does not take into account the fact that, in the case of digital platforms, production takes place on the ground - where the services are provided. In the past, there were producers and consumers as two separate groups, whereas now it is more and more common for those who are both consumers of an internet network and, at the same time, those who are producers of its value. Dear colleagues, I appeal to those of you who are always willing to implement every directive and team of the European Commission. Here is the draft drafted by the European Commission and accepted by the European Parliament (proposed interim solution): turnover tax on the digital giants. They already have a much broader group, which likes to be intersected with public media and journalists. Here is an absolutely real chance that you can give them the opportunity to work properly. Revenues from this tax could solve not only public media financing but also many other issues. This tax applies to digital companies such as Google and Facebook. It has no direct effect on either Latvian producers or consumers. According to the evaluation of the European Commission economists, there will probably be no significant negative impact on the Latvian business, which is buying the services of these companies. The forecast revenue could amount to up to EUR 30 million per year. I would also like to stress, colleagues, that the digital service tax is a temporary solution until an agreement is reached within the OECD on a global solution for the application of corporate tax to global digital platforms. Dear colleagues, My prognosis today is that the coalition Members will vote against this bill. There will be, I understand, also an explanation, and now Mr. Zakatistov is going to get up and say, most likely, the following: "We're not against... conceptually. ( Internouncing call.) But we are in favour of a single European solution." Something like that, right? And so, colleagues, there will be a model lesson in duality, because, as I said, this is a solution developed by the European Commission, adopted by the European Parliament, which was rejected by the Council of Ministers, where decisions are taken, as we know, on... on the principle of unanimity: if anyone is against it, no decision shall be taken. With regard to this digital service tax, some countries, including Ireland and the Netherlands, were opposed. Why? There are four words why - “Dual Irish-Hollandish Sendwicz”. This is a sign of a tax avoidance scheme used for years by global digital companies, where these two countries - Ireland and the Netherlands - are the main beneficiaries. Unlike Latvia, which agrees with everything in Europe, these countries are able to defend their interests, so no decisions will be taken at European level in the transparent future. And at least some of your coalition know it very well. Therefore, as you vote today, the honourable colleagues, you should remember that we will return to this issue when you show everyone that you are not afraid to apply higher taxes to Latvian citizens and Latvian companies, but you are obviously afraid to apply fair taxes to large foreign companies. I think you should remember, colleagues, that the elections are voted by the people of Latvia and not by foreign companies. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U7	So you have applied to speak to Member Atis Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U8	Hello, colleagues! Mr Dombrovskis and I know each other so well that obviously I can tell his arguments, he's mine, but somehow I'll try to stick to my own. On this point, I think it is important to distinguish between two things: the target section and the tactic section on how to achieve this objective. I fully agree with Mr Dombrovskis that the aim is noble, the aim is to get more money inside our tax system. It's a problem with tactics. I will then describe in more detail both the objectives and the situation in which we find ourselves, but, to put it simply, now with the proposal that comes from the draft laws, the tactic is to take the fight for this money alone, and I think that a much more successful tactic for achieving this objective would be to move with the OECD countries or the common... to find a common solution on this issue. Yes, we live in the 21st century. And the 21st century has changed the basic way people earn money. Digitisation and globalisation are its fundamentals. We live in an economic system, an economic tax architecture that has been in place since the 20th century when people, institutions, made the most of money... automation, industrialisation. And this is the transitional period in which tax systems must start to adapt. And these changes must take place in a coordinated manner - in various ways. Mr Dombrovskis rightly mentioned that there is no agreement within the European Union. That is why this issue has been raised to the world level, to the OECD. And the OECD is currently working on a working group whose results will be presented in June. And in those results, we will also see what the common trends are in the taxableness of this tax. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Lochmele-Lunova: "At the moment it is not clear and obvious?" ) And this is the simplest way we can get to this money. I support the objectives. I think that not only the applicants, not only us here in this space, but also the whole of the world public see that globalisation and digitalisation have led to inequality in tax collection. But exactly how to collect these taxes is not a story of one nation or one tax regime. It's a common story. So, with respect for the aims of the draft law and separation of these objectives, I think tactfully we are far closer to it money, not fighting alone and trying to invent something new, but walking along with the trends of the world that will soon be here. And thank you to Mr Dombrovskis for his recommendation to come back to this issue. Yes, let us go back after June when the OECD presents its report. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leids: “Right!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U9	Colleagues, let's vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on digital services tax to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 31, no one for - 47, no one for - 47. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” presented by Member Dombrovskis, Reizniece-Ozola, Cileviča, Valaiņa, Stepanenko and Kučinska be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U10	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! This draft law provides for amendment of the Law on Taxes and Taxes, establishing that digital service tax is introduced in Latvia and that a separate law is created for such purpose. And for my part, too, I would like to mention some of the reasons why such a tax needs to be introduced in Latvia and why it is not necessary to wait for a unique, genius proposal from the OECD, but to act now. Three factors why it is worth introducing such a tax now also in Latvia. One. Your data has value. And this value needs to be used to build the prosperity of our country, not to make profits for some multinational companies. Second. We are talking a lot about the digital single market and about equal opportunities for our small companies in e-environment business. This is the solution to ensure even a little fair competition between them - by taxing large multinational companies that currently do not pay any tax and still find various innovative solutions. The double sendvičs has already been mentioned to avoid paying taxes at all in Europe and elsewhere. And the third. Media need additional resources. I am talking about the Latvian media, which has the task of fighting at the moment in the information war, creating quality content. Europe has already estimated that, with a very rapid change in the business environment (with a large shift to the digital environment), we do not get as much tax as we should. In comparison, in traditional sectors, effective corporate tax rates for cross-border activities are currently around 23 per cent, while supranational companies operating in the digital environment pay just over 9 per cent. This is because we do not have an effective system. Indeed, both the European Commission and the OECD themselves have shown quite clearly in their studies that the existing corporate tax regime for transnational transactions is not effective. Because your business in a particular country has been proven by your physical presence, an asset base located in a particular country. There is no need for a large asset base in the digital world and, in any case, it does not need to be located in the country where the business takes place. The second factor which has not been taken into account is that users generate value. These two factors form the basis for the offer made by the European Commission on digital representation. But realising that it requires an agreement at least between OECD countries to work effectively, the European Commission has left this decision and ministers have not agreed, emphasising that such a common international solution needs to be awaited. But, colleagues, this joint solution has been being developed by the OECD for several years, and these decisions will be delayed because there is a big player in the US, where digital companies are earning from the current tax-free situation. This is why individual countries have been applying different national solutions from 2013 onwards, shifting these funds to different sectors, such as France... forgiveness, Italy and Slovakia already apply certain tax regimes for advertising or the use of user data to strengthen the cinema industry. This is why France has been very active in lobbying this issue on the ministerial agenda. Unfortunately, there has been no support, but I believe that we should support this initiative, as I supported it when I was Minister for Finance. We adopt our national regulations, we also lay down transitional rules! As soon as there is a common framework, we will be able to give up our national regulation. The national framework that will be adopted in each country will encourage the OECD to take a decision more quickly. In a situation where we currently have a very significant loss of the advertising market by national media (the Latvian Advertising Association last year showed that four major corporations - Netflix, Google, Facebook and Spotify (Dep. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “It’s it!” ) - already obtains more Latvian advertising market than national media)... I am talking about both public and private together. We have decided in the Saeima that public media should leave the advertising market on condition that they have the state budget. There is currently insufficient public budget resources. This is one specific resource (Dep. J. Strike: “Time!” ) where we can get them.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U11	Thank you, Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola. The speaking time here is not even extended. Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 30, against - 49, abstaining. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procurement of Public Service Providers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Budrik, Muižniece, Dzintara, Cielena, Kola, Money and Rancāns be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Uldis Budriķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U12	Hello, colleagues! This is only the first step towards solving such a bigger problem. Today, every one of us has a close connection with our activities in the virtual world, and let us be honest, cyber-huligianism - this is already the reality. In the information space of Latvia, the so-called click-catching web sites are increasingly experienced. They are not registered as media within the meaning of the Law on the Press and other media, but try to conquer the advertising market by deliberately incorporating provocative, biased and distorted information in its content. The production of such information and the creation and maintenance of individual websites are mostly driven by greedy intent. In other words, it is a material purpose when the perpetrator’s actions involve trying to benefit himself from it. As a result of such activities, false information and distorted information about developments in Latvia, its politics, economics or public life are increasingly appearing in the information space of Latvia, with the aim of sowing panic and creating alarms in order to gain the benefit of materials by placing automated advertising. And I will ask my colleagues to listen - these are examples of this just last month. ‘ From March the other language of the country will be Russian.’ Go on. ‘ From 1 March, children will have to pay 1 euro for entry to school." This is obviously false news, but we're going even further and crazy. ‘ Doctors warn: in the beginning of February, an outbreak of the coronavirus is expected in Latvia.” And a few days later: “The first cases of coronavirus have been recorded in Cesis.” As if we all understand that it is false news, references here are to nothing but shared by six thousand people. And if we look at the current boundaries, they're two and a half Malpils districts. Let us be honest, this is cyber-huliganimism. It has a covetous character, as the inserter of this message benefits from the insertion of this false message. The production of such information and the creation of individual websites are once again of a greedy nature. This cyber-huligianism is a relatively new trend. The legislator did not lay down any liability for this type of cybercrime. According to the applicants, such extreme public misleading episodes should be criminalised if they are aimed at obtaining a benefit. Because of the absence of a norm... It was necessary to wait long ago... to wait for one of the producers of these false news to break an existing article so that he could be prosecuted. The submitted norm provides for false news producers to be criminalised in the most extreme cases. A statement which a reasonable person, when he sees, hears or otherwise perceives, would be considered to be a reflection of the fact, shall be recognised as distributing a misleading false fact. A statement shall be considered to be false, misleading if it is generally false, partially false, or falsely reflected in a common context. I have already mentioned that this is just a small part of what we have undertaken to do. The next steps are even after this... Section 167 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, which refers to small hooliganism; it refers only to the problem of false news indirectly. So in the near future, the legislator should clarify these norms, by providing for the dissemination of false news as a small hooliganism, if the dissemination of false news is aimed at disrupting public peace and order in cyberspace, taking advantage of it. To sum up - so that Mr Agešina does not say that we are in a hurry to do something like this - I call for this bill to be passed on to the Legal Commission and then to the Sub-Commission on Criminal Law Policy and - together with the Working Party on Criminal Procedure - to move on to the result in common. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “Without rush, in the usual order!” ) This is the usual order. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “No, no!” ) For let us be honest, the permissiveness of the virtual space is far from normal and bordered with crimes against the state... and have a greedy character. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U13	Thank you. It's over. ‘ Aldis Gobzems, the Member against’, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U14	Colleagues! This proposal is not well prepared, and I would like to point out a number of examples that suggest that we cannot go further. Therefore, the proposed wording is read: ‘For the deliberate misappropriation of information in writing or in any other way, causing panic in the public if it is done for the covetous purpose...’. So - raising alarms in society if it is done for a greedy purpose. The JCP made an oral bid in writing of ‘3 × 500’. It's a false message, isn't it a false message? Was it a public alarm? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much. And was it a greedy purpose to get into the Saeima? ( Milestones.) The UKP promised pensions... EUR 200 minimum pensions from 2019. Was it a problem with the pensioners? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “You promised to leave!” ) Was it a greedy purpose for you to have a position? It was. Comply with this Article of the Criminal Law. So you get there already... False news... This morning, on the social network, Daniels Pavluts puts it: “We are fighting to reduce VAT on medicines.” He himself voted 'no'. Is that a false message? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) For the polite purpose of being the leader of a political group and having an appropriate salary, if so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “A huge shame!” ) So this is another thing that is. What, then, is false news? Another issue is the deliberate dissemination of false information. If you... we, a part, the younger people, use... others, including older people, use social networks. When you press Share or Retweet, it's also a deliberate release. So you've hit... So everyone who has wasted Daniel Pavluta's record that he is fighting for a reduction in VAT, or the BIP's promises of 3 × 500 and 200 - all of them must also be put in prison right away. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) This is how it works after this version. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešins: “It is by your version!” ) You are actually... I already understand, I already understand... That is the task of the UKP: to place everyone in prison, all that can be put in prison. (Applause) First, those who are most disturbed, then their partners one by one in a slow spirit. A neighbor naively thinks he's going through (Laughter) He already has the list, but it's not the right time. But the problem is that we must fight not with the question - when we have to figure out a legally inadequate norm - but you, dear friends, coalition, you, in the JCPOA, among other things, reject the increase in funding for medical professionals... That's for the media. ( Milestones.) You've also rejected the medicine, by the way. But for the media... to strengthen the media, did you allocate money? For the public to be able to obtain quality information. No, you had no money, you had money just for yourself. You can now what's there... there's the jeeps to buy or what's the seven times bigger money... It's about that. ( Milestones.) After all, that's the last thing I want to say. In fact, I have a deep conviction that this government is not led by Krišjānis Kariņš, but that this government is actually led by Juta Strike. (Applause) Why? Yeah, that's something to be heard about, because it's true that all of you, everyone in the coalition, not just the UKP, you're all... ( Milestones.) ( Mourniece, I will translate it into Latvian as well.) ... You're all Utah podkalučniki real. ( Milestones.) In Latvian it is ‘sandupeļi’. It's all right. And that's why you're making such poor-quality proposals... also with regard to false particulars. I am, of course, in favour of not distributing the truth in the press, but I call on you, before you prepare such matters, not only to destroy everyone, put everyone in prison, but first to strengthen not only in words, but also in deeds... strengthen media, strengthen doctors, fulfill your promises and not spread false news that is full of your party programs. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U15	All right. One Member has spoken for, one against. For the procedure - turn on the microphone for Member Artus Kaimiņš! ( Insight: “What does he want? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U16	I would also ask for this draft law to be passed on to the Saeima's Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs as a co-responsible commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U17	How's your co-responsible, huh? Okay, colleagues, so let's vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - 25, for - 2. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. On the granting of leave. On 29 and 30 January 2020, Mr Digim Schmit was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau received an application from Member Didžas Schmidt requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 29 and 30 January this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the election of Member Artusa Neiminina to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U18	I call on all Members to vote 'no' - not because Member Neighbours should not be on a commission... He can safely be put in any actually other commission, especially where some tourist trips are, to better drive somewhere. But he should not be imposed by the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, not only because there is a criminal offence where he is accused of financial crimes, but... I myself have been familiar with Artus Neighbours. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Neighbourhood sub-scenario) And I can tell you... I can tell you how Artus Kaimiņš tried to agree with his former friends and friends to tell them how money was taken from ATMs and why it was done, what was owed there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Agešin: “Tell me! Tell me!” ) I could tell you about the issues related to possible bogus recruitment of staff and many other issues. I am simply calling on you to consider this matter seriously, especially in view of the personal characteristics of Mr. Kaimiņš. The Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit is not its place! It would probably be best if he were in the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission, there would at least teach discipline, take care of himself more... and in such a way, but where there is public funding... And it's not -- it's not! - No one. This is due to the fact that... In my opinion, this Member lies to the public about the funding that he has objectively received from companies that have Rūdolf Meroni. I can also tell you that in the summer of 2018, Mr. Kaimiņš told us how he will meet with Rūdolf Meroni or his representatives, including Mr. Gobiņš, how we could raise funding there... and in that spirit. In my view, Mr. Neighbour is not honest with the finance (Interface.) , and I have experienced it in my personal life. That all public lies in this respect should not be ignored. I believe that Mr. Neiminina must be judged for these violations. I myself have represented Mr. Kaimiņa's interests in representing his friends who have allegedly been employed in the companies he owns. And in fact, the biggest problem was what Mr. Neiminina himself has told me personally - that it has been done to have more money to spend together. That's right. That's what you've done, Art. And your place is not in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. You are not entitled to audit public money spending, taking into account your personal qualities and how you handled money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U19	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Artusa Neimina to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Member Alda Blumbergs to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Alda Blumbergs to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. We're in the process of examining draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Daniel Pavluts.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U20	Good afternoon, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Law” has originally been prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined it... in advance of our vote that it is urgent... and reviewed for second reading as well. The nature of the draft law is as follows: It has the most direct connection with our experience in relation to the waste crisis in Riga, when the government had to decide twice and also here in the Saeima to decide on an emergency situation. In order not to repeat such cases in the future, the draft law provides for the establishment of a temporary legal framework in the territory of Riga Municipality in the area of waste management after the expiry of the order to declare the emergency situation, as well as to prevent such situations and create a regulation that would apply to all future emergency situations, if they were to occur in any municipality in Latvia. So this is the essence of the bill. We received two proposals for the second reading. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A proposal from a sector that, in discussions with VARAM and the Legal Bureau, was supported by the Commission. It makes sense to determine the way in which it is possible to apply for the provision of waste export services, if necessary, and how the obligation to pay for them arises. So it was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U22	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Applies to the entry into force of the law. In particular, it shall take effect on the day following that of its publication. This proposal was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U23	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U24	Dear colleagues, It's very short. I would like to point out. This is a bill... Of course, this is the second reading. But it's a bill that... which, due to its absence, the effectively ruling coalition with Mr. Pūce has come up with why the Riga Municipality did not seem to have complied with the law repeatedly. Please take this into account. Because this bill should have been after the first emergency case had been announced. But this bill was delayed. I don't know what was done with that. But in the absence of this bill, you figured that there was a breach of regulation. I therefore, of course, call for this proposal to be supported. It's a big... the importance of this proposal is not important, but please note that this is also one of the reasons why your entire scheme, which is built... and white threads are sewn, will collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U25	I closed the debate. The Member in the Tribunal calls for support to be given to the proposal in question. Is there anything to add? So, Members 2. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U26	Thank you, colleagues. I call for support to be given to this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Waste Management Act" in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U29	Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U30	Dear colleagues, We have reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” for the third reading in the Commission. One proposal has been received, which is that the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption has been set up - that the port police cannot be admitted to Earthguard. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U32	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Credit Register Act’, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U34	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined amendments to the Credit Register Law at third reading. No proposals were received. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U35	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Credit Register Act” in the third, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U36	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Hello! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined 13 proposals submitted to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”. Most of the discussions concerned tax rates for soft drinks. 1. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Zakaistov. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U38	2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U40	3. - the proposal from Members Stepanenko, Gobzem, Liepāja, Schmidt and Slurge. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U41	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U42	Dear colleagues, The Saeima has set up a Sub-Commission on Tax Policy. And those people who perhaps do not follow the decisions taken in the Saeima day could think that we have a tax policy, both for the legislator and for the government, which is being followed. And tax policy - that means smart planning based on research, different calculations and an assessment of the current situation - bearing in mind, of course, that our people, our producers, must be protected in particular! . A person who does not go into the decision-making process might think so. Unfortunately, however, tax policy now, these days, means it to us: let's grab the one who's closer to standing, as much as possible, and when we want it! And it could essentially describe the proposal that we are currently talking about in the context of the whole draft law. It was a proposal that was called for by Development/About! Members, make it essential! - levy excise duty on these carbonated, sugared drinks. Whatever the head of government said about taxes... tax is not being raised and, if something is planned, it must go through this sub- commission! No matter what other colleagues may think! Its desire to raise the tax on carbonated and sugary beverages was so strong that at one time some suspicions even existed. And here, of course, we come to the emotional arguments used by our colleagues. Who will then tell you that the cola is healthy? ( Interface: “I! ”) ) I thought... Yeah, of course, this flank, too... This flank, which encouraged excise duty, is often, I see, smashing these drinks. But if we speak seriously, using these emotional arguments in such... On serious issues such as taxation, which will have a significant impact on the economy, it is absolutely unforgivable to say no more. In this case, when discussing the proposals, we concluded in the Commission that there was no evidence that there would have been an increase in consumption if we were talking about health, there was no evidence that there would have been a significant deterioration in health. We do not want that, of course. But if we are talking about what effect this light proposal can have on us, against which we have also tabled accordingly our proposal to return to the current version... None of the proposers have studied how manufacturers could try to avoid this increased excise duty by adding a variety of unexplored substances to beverages, to the end of the study, because we know, for example, that the United States has been recognised as quite dangerous a variety of substances, which are sweeteners, which are still being used with us when we are talking about Diamond. In this case too, possibly aspartame, which is often added to beverages, could be considered dangerous at some point. And, of course, no responsibility will be assumed by these people who, at the same time, simply encouraged the creation of excise duty on sugary drinks, thus perhaps increasing their short-term popularity on that wave that they are struggling for as if public health, while also forgetting about medical wages and, at the same time, simply destroying perhaps part of the industry in a simple way. That is why we called for a return to the existing framework, for us not to let businessmen take hold once, not to make them worry about their planning. We call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U43	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, is this proposal to be clarified?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U44	Proposal No 4 was tabled by Members Skride, Druitis...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U45	3, 3! About 3. ( The utterances: “For the third! ”) ; “ Commission on the third proposal... ?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U46	Oh! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Strike: “No support!” ) is not supported by the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Well re, just!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the motion submitted by Members Stepanenko, Gobzem, Liepāja, Schmidt and Sprūde! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 53, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U48	The proposal was put forward by Members Skride, Duritis and Voika. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U49	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U50	As a sportsman, I'm worried about two things. One thing is that the people of Latvia, if I don't be mistaken, take second place in the European obesity rank. That would be the smallest. ( Milestones.) The other thing that concerns me. It's important for athletes to have a drink at the load. The best way to drink is to drink water. What does it mean if you drink some sugary, sugary drinks? By drinking... The more sugary the drink is, because the body cannot absorb the liquid, i.e., it means that it cannot drink from the drink. What the hell is there for us to support drinks that cannot be drunk?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “Well, what about expressions?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ In view of these two main circumstances, I therefore call for support for the proposal - Andra Skrides... Proposal. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U51	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U52	Colleagues! Latvia is far behind other OECD and European Union countries in terms of preventable mortality risks. And in Latvia, exactly the deaths related to lifestyle risk factors, according to OECD 2019 data, are the most... These are exactly the food-related ones. I mean, more... In Latvia 31 percent of premature deaths are directly related to food, while in OECD countries only 18 percent on average. If we look at other risk factors, they're not so crazy at all. For example, according to the 2019 smoking data, tobacco-related risk factors in Latvia and the European Union are the same: in the European Union – on average 16 percent, in Latvia – 17 percent. So that's exactly the dietary factor... First, sweetened drinks, second, trans-fatty acids, third, salt - these are the three sections that kill us most quickly. And that's why the first fight we've started is precisely with sweetened drinks. And then there will also, of course, be a fight against the rest of the... will now follow the fight with other products as well. And also, in its 2016 report on fiscal policies to reduce non-infectious diseases, the World Health Organisation stated that excise duty on sweetened soft drinks significantly reduces their use, especially when the price of the product increases by 20 percent. And that is what we get with our proposal. As I said at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), only last year has this tax been introduced in 28 countries. And we have the opportunity to be the first of the Baltic countries. If we are talking very much about the environment at the moment - in fact, we have a lot... this plastic pollution. We can take instead of just health aspects; we will also reduce environmental pollution by reducing the consumption of these sweetened drinks. So that I call for the water in our watercourses and I call for support for proposal 4. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U53	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U54	Dear colleagues, A little more endurance tonight and a little bit of your attention! Thank you for your support at second reading. We have already supported the historic proposal to be the first in the Baltic States... limit... by increasing excise duty on very sweet drinks, limiting their future consumption. Now, we know, countries that have introduced increased excise duty on sweet drinks are watching what we want to achieve and what... I also asked in the previous debate whether this would lead to a result. There is a decrease in consumption (Dep. Mr Stepanenko: “Where are the numbers?” ) and manufacturers also change their habits. Last time we discussed, we also talked about further harmonisation of these proposals with industry, and the ministries should be consulted. We had a very important debate in the Commission. The Ministry of Health supports and the Ministry of Finance has also supported this proposal. The State Revenue Service has announced that this excise duty, which we will apply from January 2022, can be applied at no extra cost. They're already preparing for this. So... for the implementation of these proposals also Latvian producers will not be one and a half years, as we... Well, yes, one and a half years... but almost two years - until January 2022 - and will be able to adapt. It is also very important, I think, of the arguments that have been made so far, to mention that we are not making all the drinks - with this proposal for drinks with a sugar level of up to 8 grams - the same excise duty as has been maintained so far, and that is the offer to producers - please think more about how to produce less sweet drinks. And in turn, you want to drink and produce... buy and drink sweeter, then pay more. We are a free country and, of course, we must be sweet drinks. But we have to pay a little more for them. Studies also show that if we are to increase excise duty and achieve an effect, then this increase for sweet drinks must be significant. We at first reading... And what are you... At second reading, on which you voted, we proposed this here EUR 30 per 100 litres. We talked to the industry, we listened to them, and the current proposal is lower - 20. But it would still have this effect. The proposal, which will then come, has already led to almost the level at which it could have no effect directly from the point of view of purchase and consumption. The last thing I'd like to say. That is perhaps important to all of us, colleagues. The way this proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, which we will look at on proposal 4, proposal 5, came to the Saeima and is being discussed today. I would say that this is not a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, it is an industrial proposal with which it came to talk to us as the authors of the proposal. This resulted in our proposal, which we discussed, because we were unable to make concessions. But the Ministry of Agriculture came without prejudice and said: “Please, here is our proposal!” As you will vote on proposal 5, you will not vote on the carefully thought-out and developed proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture, but on the industry that has come to the ministries and to the Saeima for years and has received what they wanted: "No, we cannot produce rice containing meat!" “No, we can’t produce it and it, we have to earn more!” In this case, we are talking about the health of our children, and I do not understand how we might not want to support this here. Thank you. I call for support for the proposal. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U55	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U56	I'm so sorry. There is a saying: lies, big lies and Mr Skride's proposal. I would like to quote a letter from the Latvian Chamber of Industry and Commerce, in which they pointed out that, based on the data available to the non-alcoholic beverages sector, differentiated rates of excise duty would not achieve the goal of reducing sugar consumption. Some consumers have a higher purchasing power without affecting their choice of consumption for a higher price. Some consumers will switch to cheaper alternatives. For example, in Denmark, which introduced the so-called sugar tax in 2011, the tax was subsequently abolished without meeting the objectives of reducing sugar consumption. At the same time, the increase in cross-border trade has caused budgetary losses due to the absence of excise duty revenues. It is worth remembering that a reduction in excise duty on alcoholic beverages is planned, which is supported, including, most likely, by “Development/About!” . Consumers receive most of the sugar through grocery, confectionery, followed by sweetened dairy products, and only then non-alcoholic beverages. Consequently, it is not justified to highlight a separate product group, i.e. non-alcoholic beverages. So Mr Skride is manipulating facts and information in a way that is convenient to him, most likely. Examples from other countries show that increased prices for non-alcoholic beverages will lead to increased consumption of other high-calorie products. It is therefore important to talk about ingredients rather than a specific product group. It is a lax matter when it comes to making a proposal. With the increased rate of excise duty, cross-border trade will increase, as is currently the case in the beer and spirits segment, while Estonians travel to Latvia, thus causing losses to the local sector and thus to the public budget. An increased rate of excise duty would increase the prices of products for consumers, which would force retailers to raise prices for other products as well, in order to maintain reasonable profit margins. An increase in inflation would create an additional burden for consumers, especially for people with low income levels. The higher rates for non-alcoholic beverages are disproportionate to those for beer and spirits. This leads to a situation in which alcohol consumption can be stimulated by trying to limit the consumption of non-alcoholic beverages to promote public health. And now the industry is already working on a change in beverage recipes, both by reducing total sugar and using sweeteners, as well as introducing a package of smaller drinks, reducing the size of the portion. The Ministry of Agriculture came to the Commission with a smarter, more balanced and much better proposal for amendments to the Law on Excise Tax. Please do not support Mr Skride's proposal and support the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U57	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U58	Mrs. Voika! You climbed the pub and said that you care about the health of your children. I will remind you, as you voted in the budget for medical salaries with this stick on your back. (Applause) You voted against medical salaries. And you care about children's health! You care for children's health. But when you have to talk about how to feed your children in schools, you say: “It’s not the task of the state to make the municipalities work!” Then the municipalities... Yes, then there is a need for municipalities, although in fact it is a way to improve children's health - completely, one hundred percent, the state to provide children with food in schools. Andreis Skride, a medical doctor, was on the trip. He says sugar is harmful to health. Well, in principle no one already disputes this. But when it comes to voting that the Snake will have less excise duty, Andris Skride is the first to vote so that the Snake is cheaper. ( Milestones.) Mr. Durishi, too, like a doctor... He treats animals. Maybe he doesn't have such a big connection to the sniff. He doesn't know... But that too... exactly the same solution... In essence, you would like to say that the changes that you propose will affect the price store and now the cocoons will become more expensive. Coca-Cola has budgeted more than three billion in its advertising budget... There's more expenditure directly for advertising than to produce... They don’t look at it: “We’re not sure what excises will be there in Latvia? How will this affect the price of our products?’ For the major corporations of the world, such changes proposed by you do not change anything. It will only harm the local producer, the local producer, who produces the quasi or health drink. ( Internouncing call.) And if you want to start with yourself and health, there are two examples that need to be mentioned. It's clear... I'll start with the first example... From this flang. That flang can no longer endure, is five and six minutes, they can no longer five Saeima sitting to withstand. They're all over, it's over! It's all right! (Applause) The neighbor takes care of Strīķis, how he can't be betrayed to that prosecutor's office. That's the only thing they can do after five.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U59	Take a look at the proposal! Mr. Gobzem, be so kind! Address the proposal. Speak, please, on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U60	But... Mrs. Moore, don't stop me! I'm... Mrs. Moore, don't stop me! Mrs. Moore, I...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U61	The Head of the sitting is entitled to terminate the Member's term of office (Minimum statement: 'Sure!'). ) when he is not talking about the proposal. Be so kind, talk about the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U62	Mrs. Moorier, you think... Mourniece, my spouse had the same name as you before your marriage. Maybe we're radi! So don't stop me! ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U63	Talk about the proposal. ( Laughs) Speak, please, on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U64	So don't stop me! For health. We take care to have health in Latvia. For us in the Sports Commission, one of the biggest steprs of the Saeima is the leader. Sports in the Commission! I think Mr. Riekstins can't get out of here. That is how we take care of our health. Saeima canteen water - Latvian water! - can't buy. There's only a Only cococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococococi! ( Internouncing call.) You're talking about health care. This is what your proposal really means to some extent extortion from a local businessman. Let that local businessman then come to you and ask him to give him any discounts. And then, then, you'll hit your chest, climb into the tub and tell me how you've defended and fought the local businessman for five years, fighting to cancel the local business... reduce this excise duty. Such an excise duty... The only one that will be affected is the local company. However, I call on the chair of the sitting to put the Chamber in order. Let's just... I understand that there are also some rude-- today, with harsh words, spoke from the place, but, well, at least, have some order. However, I call for this to be done. ( Internouncing call.) It's over. I call on you not to hold this proposal and not to harm local companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U65	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “But I will catch you if you need it!” ; dep. A. Gobzem: “You can’t get away!” Sounds like noise. (See the box below.) Colleagues, please look at the draft law! There won't be any jogging race here! It's just telling me where the bunny ran. There's a bill here! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstina and dep. A. Gobzem’s intermediate names.) Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U66	I can wait. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem’s intermediate names.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U67	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. That's enough, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U68	Dear colleagues, Well, this must be the most vis-à-vis situation I've ever seen in the Saeima. I must admit that I also initially supported this proposal in the Commission because, as my colleague, Mr Zakatistova, has just said, the intention is noble and so on. But here it is not even about tactics; here it is about some assumptions and facts. Because the assumption that you are likely to have is that the proposal is aimed at such drinks as Coca-Cola, Fanta and so on, which are mostly consumed by people... The kids... and the cost of these drinks will reduce the demand for such harmful drinks and will this contribute to human health if so? With this assumption, colleagues, there's... there is one problem, either small or very large. If you look... whether or not you can enter the same Google and write the question “Do Coca-Cola uses sugar?” or ‘What is the composition of Coca-Cola?’ . And then, colleagues, it turns out that Coca-Cola and other such drinks have not been using sugar for 30 years. There's a sweetener! You can, as you say, "evidence-based policy" and so on, to clarify it, to clarify the facts. Global beverage producers have been using sugar for 30 years and they have been using sweetener - syrup. The same Coca-Cola proposals therefore do not apply at all. This does not apply to Coca-Cola and other beverages. This will not increase its Coca-Cola price. All this will do is increase the cost of some local niche producers who produce juice or malt directly from real sugar. That's one. The second assumption is that... At least I am not aware of the effects of this sweetener on human health, and during the meetings of the committee I was also unable to receive information, the answer to that question. Thus, it could also appear that these sweeteners could have even more adverse effects on human health than actual sugar. And what's going to happen, colleagues? By supporting such a proposal, the price of Coca-Cola will be reduced compared to the price of local drinks produced with real sugar - and this will promote the consumption of Coca-Cola in particular. If it suddenly turns out that it has a more negative effect, then it will actually damage human health. That is why I, my fellow Members, am asking, to say so, to return, perhaps to consult the analytical service of the Saeima, and to clarify the facts and assumptions. It's so easy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U69	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U70	Dear colleagues, For clarity, I call on you not to support this proposal. Earlier, on our previous proposal, I explained why this group for Development/About! Members' proposal, initially in the second version... The wording of the second reading, which has now been slightly adjusted, seems to be completely unreasonable. And I would like to add that, in my opinion, as Mr Dombrovskis has just said, the coalition Members (in contrast to the opposition, or even unlike those outside the political groups) have a huge number of opportunities - a huge number of opportunities! - examine the matter before submitting such proposals. And really, there's an analytical service in the Saeima, which... I do not, in fact, know what the task is, what they are doing to the service at the moment, but this would be a very good task: to study how and to what extent the tax increase will kill the sector. Because we are almost convinced that your proposal will have irreversible consequences. For example, drinks such as Mežezers, Iļuciems kvass and Cido Group will also be subject to this excise duty. And don't really think they won't buy these drinks for a few cents! No, the problem will be that producers will be forced to adapt to new circumstances, as I said, either to change the recipe to a less healthy one by adding sweeteners or simply leaving the Latvian market. We will thus lose labour taxes and all the other things which, in principle, entrepreneurs are currently providing in the state budget. And if you're talking about children's health, which Mrs Voika mentioned, please don't forget... The honourable coalition, please don’t forget, especially you, “Development/About!” Members who encouraged you to think about children's health, that you were also those who voted in favour of taking children's holiday off! In a number of regions, as we know, at the moment, municipalities are unable to provide children with food - the holiday school - and this causes direct harm to children's health, because we know very well that there are families... There are children who may not be so rich that they are really... whose only hope was really to eat a normal lunch at school. And if they are now, thanks to you, honourable hypocrites, this opportunity is denied, then it is only your merit! And don't, honourable colleagues, stick to your health and don't stick to it... You will immediately come and list the various illnesses you may suffer from sugar. But it's hypocrisy. ( Internouncing call.) Because if you want to improve public health and think that sugary drinks are very harmful, then why don't you ban them? Why don't you deny them? Why don't you ban children under 18? No, no! And these discussions with the producers mentioned by Mrs Voika seem all the more suspicious to me and my colleagues. Because there's a scheme that's being heard about -- a problem is being created, artificially. And then a man comes with a solution to the problem. Is it really not strange that, in this way, when you submit legislative proposals, you should encourage the producers to negotiate, to negotiate and then tell them that you have succeeded in reaching a common denominator? Shame, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U71	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U72	Good evening, honourable colleagues! Well, it's very good that, at the end of the working day, we had that hot discussion. We started talking about sport, what's harmful, what's not. Obesity... Well, of course, that is the case. From “Riga Water” we were told that the most healthy drinking is Riga water, which is just for us from the tap. It meets all the requirements and is safe to drink in all the districts of the city. But when you talk about the red or dark drink you mentioned here, it's harmful or not, but I haven't heard anyone in the world believe that firms with 130 years of experience... that its drink is harmful to health. And if you said that if you drink that drink, you could die... It's almost like one of the biggest countries in the world... Everybody should have died in 130 years. But for the time being, no one said that I died just because I drank that drink. Talking about athletes. The athletes regrettably need to drink those sweet drinks, whether they want to or not, how harmful or not, because life itself is harmful. You can't live healthy as in nature anywhere in the world, also there live... is the damage to the sun, radiation, too. Another thing I have already said from this troupe is that we need to choose for ourselves what we drink or what we produce, what we allow to import into our country. The dark drink we bring here, or it's made in Estonia... but it is of a different quality than in the European Union and of a completely different quality than across the Atlantic. Totally different, believe me. Yes, the drink is made by a single recipe, which was stored by only four people... knows this recipe completely, but it is different. Checked. And there's one element... chemical element starting with the letter ‘A’... Has been proven (already in the third generation of rats die)... if you would use that element. It's in that drink, but we keep drinking and drinking it. We better give the Minister for Health the task of developing a drink, a healthy drink that we can recommend to all children, to all students. Then we can be proud of having achieved something in this life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U73	The name to Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U74	Hello, colleagues! I think this is an excellent discussion. Because if this issue and this proposal have been able to create such topicalities for liquid use, sugar, children's health, then it's great. Especially if it happens in the Saeima. Yeah, what's the story about? In fact, there is no very large difference between proposals 4 and 5. But the debate is very much about things, starting with the fact that sugar is actually very good and that there is nothing much there. I'd say... I think it's important here to break down a number of things. First. I completely agree, we have to take a certain amount of liquid every day, and that is water. The best thirst is water, and all of us and our children need to use water, and now it's good from the tap in Latvia - in Riga... everywhere. Water must be used instead of sweetened drinks - whether they are produced in Latvia or elsewhere in the world. These drinks are not healthy, they cause obesity in children. Currently, in Latvia, children between 7 and 9 years of age have an obesity rate of more than 22 percent. It's stopped. And you know why it's stopped? Because there was a first ban on selling sweetened drinks in schools. And it works. You asked for the facts. It's working. In the area of health, we received the award directly for the first to restrict both the sale of bulls and sweetened drinks at school. By changing the children’s menu, the health situation is improving. Second. If we talk about it, should we ban the sale of sweetened drinks at all or maybe actually only from the same age as the alcohol, I would say - yes, because there's something behind me saying: "What's a colla without whiskey?" Actually... That is exactly the same thing when children consume these sweetened drinks in very different ways. And is there little or much sugar? If you put 1 or 2 teaspoons of sugar in the coffee in the morning, then the sweetened drinks... the bottle usually contains 7 to 10 tablespoons of sugar. So there's a very big amount of this sugar there. Of course, this period is very slow when we change our sense of taste... on what we've been drinking so far - very concentrated or... moving to water... So I think it is very good that this debate has begun. Will one or two win in this case? It is important that the discussion has begun and we reduce the sugar consumption in our daily diet. And I recommend to all of you: the liquid must be used - at least two litres or more per day. This is water, which is the first choice for removing thirst. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U75	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U76	Dear colleagues, This proposal, in my opinion, is a strong sign of "Development/About!" a forward-looking policy. A big problem is imagined... And today too... described problem... That there's a huge... obesity problems for our citizens. And that exactly how much the cola bottle pays is what will solve all these problems. This is the same as the administrative territorial reform that you are leading: let us unite in larger municipalities and this will solve the regional... all regional problems! Like the doctors, we do not give money in the budget, but we will change the funding model, and this will solve all the problems. And here too. In fact, you are marking a big problem, but you are offering a rather unserious solution. And that's absolutely not gonna solve anything. If we look at people in the regions at all, they're just... There is no difference as to how long it will pay, whether it will pay one amount of money or a little more expensive, they still... residents in regions simply cannot afford to buy at all and do not buy frozen drinks at all. You are looking at this matter by your own prism. There will be nothing better in the regions if half of the secondary school is closed, just as nothing will change in this matter if you raise excise duties on sweetened drinks. It is true: there is no difference between the proposal - either this proposal or the future proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture... This does not solve the problem either. You have simply raised a big issue by offering a non-serious solution. It's such an empty, empty... simple dwindling of policies that are reflected in all your policies.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U77	The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U78	Hello, colleagues! This will be a question in which I will agree with my colleague Vjačeslav Dombrovskis: one disaster that is excessive - the consumption of sugar in food - should not be replaced by another one, which has probably been less investigated and with more consequences for human health, namely consumption of artificial sweeteners. Yeah, we're not naive! - those kids who currently buy sweetened drinks with natural sugar, they're... As these drinks become more expensive, they won't go to water, they'll go to these... sweeteners for drinks. As we flee from the wolf, we will hit the bear, because artificial sweeteners for human health are likely to be more harmful than natural sugar. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Skride: “No harm!” ) For them, the clinical study is much less than for sugar. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported, but for the next proposal, 5 - from the Ministry of Agriculture, which is a certain compromise between these two positions - to choose not a radical solution, but a reasonable, moderate solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U79	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U80	I understand that this proposal is what... in that new article of the Criminal Law on the deliberate dissemination of false news... If you're making an alarm for a greedy purpose... Yeah... because in principle the state, as more money, anxiety is how you feel and knowingly false news that it will now improve everyone's health. I will give you an example. Coke without sugar. What is healthier - cola without sugar or our local perfume product? And if someone tells me that there are no artificial sweeteners in the college without sugar, which this excise duty will not apply (Interface: “There is also in the kvasa!” ), then it's just... It's just the answer to the fact that... Such regulation will in no way affect large producers of sweet drinks. They will simply use artificial sweeteners instead of sugar, which is even healthier. I already understand that you like to harm Latvian society and say that you are fighting there to improve health for all. But if you want to improve your health, just raise your medical fees and give all your children a break. Give water for nothing at school, give food for nothing at school, and improve your overall health. I would also urge you to discuss the problem of alcoholism in Latvia as much as we are discussing sugar today. And the last one. The last one. Given that it comes from “Development/About!” and NEW COMMITMENTS, sugar - it is not a matter of liberal values. So you... I think this is not what you should be heading for. As an organisation that defends health care, you should direct my above-mentioned questions - medical wages and holidays for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U81	Dear colleagues, Members Latkovskis, Adamovičs, Pavļuts, Zakaitistovs and Dzintars are asking to announce a break at the Saeima sitting on 30 January this year from 5.30 p.m. until 9 a.m. on 6 February this year. ( Insight: “It’s finally the only right thing! ” ) Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) “Yes, yes!” ; dep. A. Gobzem: “I wanted to talk against!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the adjournment of the parliamentary session by 9 a.m. on February 6, this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, I must inform you of the answers to Members' questions. The urgent question to the Minister of Economics “On the action of the Ministry of Economics regarding the determination of OIC station benchmarks under the Electricity Market Act” by Members Zarina, Klementjeva, Kucina, Niconova, Orlova and Kabanov. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. On the question of Member Reizniece-Ozola, Valaiņa, Krauze, Bergmanis and Vacans to the Prime Minister “On a uniform rate of excise duty on alcohol in all Baltic States”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Member of the Minister for the Interior of Adamson, Zariņa, Orlova, Lochmel-Lunovo and Rubika, on drug and psychotropic substance trafficking on websites. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. The replies to Members' questions therefore remain. There has been received a question by Members Liepiņa, Stepanenko, Gobzem, Srūdes and many about the implementation of the decision of the Saeima of 13 September 2018, which is submitted to the Minister of Finance for its reply. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U82	High honourable Members! Not registered: Iveta Benhen-Beeken... No, Dace Bluke... No, Boris Cilevič... No, Raivis Dzintars... I see, thank you, Maria Golubeva... No, Armands Krauze... I don't see, Jānis Krišāns... I see, Edgar Kucin... No, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Linda Ozola... I don't see, Ramona Petraviča... No, Dan Reizer-Ozol... There's no Dan, Ivan Ribakov... Then what happens to you there? Yes, it is, Mārtiņš Staķis, Didzis Schmidt... No, Edmund Teirumnieks... also walk somewhere around, Jānis Tutins and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-01-30-PT13-2036-U83	Thank you. Interruption until 9 a.m. on February 6 this year. ( Interruption)
