ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Thank you for your patience. There have been technical problems for Members in the Chamber of Parliament. It was a technique. They have been eliminated and we can continue. Dear colleagues, We will continue to look at the agenda for the meeting of 24 September this year. But before we get to the agenda, I would like to inform you. A letter from Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Gobzem and Liepaja addressed to the Saeima Presidium - about the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima remotely on the platform e-Saeima. So the questions that are asked are in connection with our work remotely on the platform e-Saema. This letter was received yesterday late in the afternoon (registration took place at 15.10). By a resolution of a member of the Saeima, that letter was referred to the Legal Bureau for a reply. And Members will receive answers to the questions within a reasonable time. But in order to remind you of why we have decided to meet at a distance, I would like to inform you that both during the state emergency and at the end of the emergency... In order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection, the Saeima Presidium decided on 10 June this year to keep the Saeima’s sittings at a distance, or on the platform e-Saema, pending the subsequent decision of the Saeima Presidium. When taking such a decision, the Saeima Presidium was based both on Articles 15 and 19 of the Satversme, on the opinion of the Saeima Orders, on the opinion of the Saeima Legal Bureau, and on the opinion of Janis Plapa, the national expert on constitutional rights, on holding the sittings of the Saeima away during and after an extraordinary situation. The actual epidemiological safety situation was a very important factor in the decision of the Saeima Presidium. As the epidemiological situation improved and the number of new Covid-19 cases decreased significantly, the Saeima Presidium decided, and we resumed the autumn session with the Saeima sittings on the spot. However, the Saeima Bureau is constantly following the evolution of the epidemiological situation in the country in order to protect the health of Members and Workers and - and this is very important - to ensure continuity in Parliament's activities. When the Saeima meets, the Saeima Presidium shall assess the situation and take an appropriate decision - a decision on holding the Saeima sitting in person or at a distance. Having concluded that epidemiological security in the country is still at risk in relation to the spread of Covid-19 infection, the Bureau decided at its meeting on 28 September this year to continue the extraordinary meeting of the Saeima on 24 September and to discuss the agenda of the extraordinary meeting of the Saeima on 1 October on the e-Parliament platform. The Bureau decision was based on the deterioration of the epidemiological situation in the country observed in recent weeks and on a significant increase in the number of reported Covid-19 cases. Such information was available to the public in a public space, and epidemiologists also publicly invited to work remotely wherever possible. In addition, on 29 September this year, we received a opinion from the SCPC that the number of Covid-19 cases recorded in the last week has increased significantly and that there has been a gradual deterioration of the epidemiological situation. The SPPC recommended that precautions be taken in the Saeima, including the possibility of remote work. The opinion received from the SPC reaffirmed the Bureau's concerns and the Bureau's decision of 28 September. Dear colleagues, I would also like to remind you once again of the fundamental principles of the functioning of the constitutional organs of the country in an emergency. They were adopted by the heads of five constitutional bodies. And, honourable colleagues, these principles also provide that the Saeima continues to carry out its legislative work and exercise parliamentary control over the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, using, if necessary, the available opportunities for a remote organisation of the Saeima's work. This is provided for in point 8 of that framework. Yesterday there was a meeting of the heads of constitutional organs in Riga Castle. We discussed the situation and discussed the opportunities for remote work, including how other constitutional bodies, including Parliament, will continue to work. And once again, the need to work remotely was confirmed. And also the President of Latvia in his statement and... When discussing this situation, stressed that it complies with the principles of the Constitution. Dear colleagues, Before the sitting, Member Stepanenko has applied to speak on the procedure. I hope it's about... I have already explained the validity of the Bureau decision and have given an insight into the Bureau's reasoning on the decision to sit at a distance. Please enter a section on the procedure. And the name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U2	Hello!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U3	Please ( Not clear.) ... Mrs Stepanenko, thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U4	Dear colleagues, First of all, a small comment on what Mrs Murniece said. Article 15 of the Satversme provides for the... refers only to an exceptional situation... on ‘extreme circumstances’, as it is written in the Constitution. So... Since an emergency has not yet been announced in our country, and the decision of the Saeima Presidium on its grounds... with sound arguments and supporting documents that justify the legitimacy of this decision, we are not available... what is currently available is simply a single paragraph in the minutes of the Bureau meeting of 28 September that the Bureau has taken such a decision suddenly. Moreover, reference to the Bureau decision of 10 June is, in our view, totally unfounded in view of the fact that the arguments set out in the Bureau decision of 10 June are not currently valid. Since we believe that the meeting convened by the Bureau at the moment on the e-platform is not legitimate, despite all attempts to legitimise it with retroactive effect, by reference to a letter from the SPC issued following a decision by the Bureau. We believe that... Furthermore, we ask the Bureau to draw up this letter, a reply letter, with the participation of each member of the Bureau personally, not to bring it to the Legal Bureau, because it was not a decision of the Bureau of Law - to convene this sitting in such a order. I believe that the members of the Bureau must be responsible for their own voluntary actions, and not put down - to answer - the members of the Saeima... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U5	Thank you. I want to remind Mrs Stepanenko... And also... that we have already debated and Members are informed, and the Bureau has decided that the exceptional situation and the “extraordinary circumstances” in the Constitution are not the same. We have also debated this and that... So all decisions - with all the reasoning - relating to the work at a distance have also been sent to Members. Please turn on the microphone for Member Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U6	Good morning, Mrs. Moore. The fact that there will be remote sittings was known about a month ago when it was discussed with other members of the coalition. This is a very simple, dear society: a budget must be adopted in this way and waste must be managed in this way. Because it's a way to avoid disobedient opposition, including from the disobedient Mr. Gobzem, who is climbing in the truce and irritating Mrs. Mūrniece. That is why we also need these remote sittings. Because if there were such dangerous conditions, Mrs Mūrniece's meeting today would be conducted in a mask and worry about her health, but, as we can see, this is not happening. That's why... I fully agree with Julia Stepanenko: this is all a farce, which should stop once. And the public already sees it, the public wakes up. And on October 10, on the streets! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U7	There is information that Member Liepiņa also wants to speak. Is Member Liepiņa in the system? Mrs. Liepaja, please apply for a debate on the procedure. Mrs. Liepaja, you have the opportunity to apply for a debate on the procedure! When Member Liepiņa is in the system... We can see. Please press... applying for a debate. So the name to Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U8	Good morning, Mrs. Moore. Good morning, Members! Yeah, I'm in the system. I have decided that I will be in this strange system for the benefit of 44,662 voters who have delegated me to represent them in the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. Mrs Mūrniece, I really am not surprised, but that is the five-person company that you mentioned, which decided on this... for the first time on 23 March. agreed in fact in the Presidential Palace that the Constitutions may be interpreted. Then I would like to understand what it is about the institution of five people; which law provides that five people, meeting together at the presidential palace... And you know very well what these five were, because you were one of them. Which law provides for such an institution? And what law provides that these five people now decide that the Constitutions may be interpreted? I think... As Jūlija Stepanenko and Aldis Gobzems have already mentioned, the basic law - the Constitution - has long been violated in our country. And I'm calling for this to stop right away... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Constitution does not provide for such format for the sittings. And at the time when the Satversme was written, there was Spanish flu in Latvia, there was both a telegraph and a telephone in Latvia (the Internet is just a new form of communication - a new way to communicate with people). The Fathers of the Satversme did not foresee (It is not clear to hear.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U9	Thank you. Time! The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U10	Dear colleagues, I would like to respond to Mrs Murniece's remark that all decisions have been sent to us. We have those decisions that the Saeima may have referred to in this decision of 28 September. And among these decisions, the only thing we can find that you have pointed out is this decision of the Bureau of 10 June, which is now in fact invalid because it refers to nullity. That's one. Second. When Mr. Girgens looked at the parliamentary e-platform system in his commission from all sides, then also the representative of the Saeima Administration... admitted publicly that, unfortunately, given that exceptional circumstances require this, the Saeima has this e-system, e-platform, but restricts Members in their actions... and restrict certain functions provided for in the Saeima order roll. Consequently, in order to adopt such restrictive measures, the Saeima had to have a specific justification which is currently not available at all. There is therefore no justification at this point in time. You have made your decision on 28 September without any justification...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U11	Thank you, Mrs Stepanenko. Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Gobzem - for the procedure. Second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U12	Article 1 of the Civil Law provides: “The rights to be exercised and the duties to be performed according to good faith.” The Speaker of the Saeima and the relevant five shall not exercise these rights and obligations in good faith, in particular in this situation. This morning I personally lead my child to school - children go to school, everything is fine, no one is afraid of any viruses, no masks are needed, everything is fine. In the Lucavsala, the tingeltangels are being built, immediately set up the carousel and what is there. Marathon... The Riga Marathon will take place on 10 October. By the way, on the same day that people get out of the streets. Meanwhile, 100 poor cowardly Members will now sit away just because... Well, don't let the opposition stop at the podium. That is, in fact, the only reason why remote sittings are taking place. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U13	Please turn on the microphone for Linda Liepiņš for the second time - for the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U14	And what most surprises me in this situation, when the Constitution is in fact grossly violated, is that the Constitutional Court does not react in any way. And in fact, the Constitution does not provide that one Member, if he believes power is overturned and the laws are violated, and democracy is restricted... There is currently no possibility for one Member to turn to... Yes, apply to the Constitutional Court. I'll wait a lot, I'll wait a lot! - the election of the new judge of the Constitutional Court, and I hope that perhaps the new judge of the Constitutional Court will be... direct manager, I thought... will be fairer and have a different perspective on the Constitution and on the processes currently under way in the country. Since this is really a big stone, which I am currently in the garden of the Constitutional Court because the Constitution is being violated for a long time, but the Constitutional Court does not react to it in any way. This violation is ignored! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U15	Thank you. So the debate on the procedure is closed. Dear colleagues, Members want to continue their work. We really have a very large and long agenda to look at today. And with regard to the interpretations of the Constitution, colleagues, it really is... Recently, we opened a very large book in Parliament - “Constitutional comments”. The comments of the Satversme come to an end with the commentation of the Section... about Saeima, about Saeima work. I'm calling... I call on all those who believe that the Satversme cannot be interpreted, to get acquainted with the comments of the Satversme which provide for interpretation of the Satversme. And they have been written by recognised national law experts! So that the books are never too late. Okay, let's get on with it. (Applause) On the agenda - Opinion of the Petitions Commission. Request by Members Viktors Valaiņa, Dana Reiznieces–Ozola, Jānis Vucanas, Ulda Augulis, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janina Jalinska, Armands Krauze and Vjačeslavs Dombrovska to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš and Minister for Culture Nauris Puntulis “On the submission of questionable quality documents and the lack of public involvement, directing the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the National Concert Hall project at Elizabetes Street 2, Riga”. Ms Linda Liepiņa, who has applied for a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U16	Yeah, thank you for giving me the floor. That's... 15 minutes, huh? Well, there's going to be a lot less, so I won't be doing much time. I have seen that Mr Puntulis is also watching this online show of the Saeima sitting. But, okay, not about that. So... Mr Puntulis, I have followed very carefully all the information that has appeared in the public space about the construction of the concert hall. I have also heard your comments, which you... you have commented at various sittings, as well as at press conferences and media, and so on, and so on. Definitely, the concert hall is needed. I agree with that. And perhaps the concert hall would be one of those objects that should be built right now - Covid-19 during the crisis. And... Well, I assume that the construction of the prison can be postponed, can delay the construction of the public media building... and yet a whole line of this political elite cartel (called, as you wish, these objects)... that everyone now has to build some building... The concert hall will have to be! There is no debate at all about this. The question now is about that house on Elizabetes Street... Elizabetes Street 2, if I don't. Well, that's the argument why there's... In my view, these arguments do not hold any criticism at all. The only argument that could be much less logical, in my opinion, is the one that has not been made public but that doctors are talking about. And I don't know if it's... Maybe it's sounded public, but I haven't heard it... and I do not know if it is true, but there is information that maybe this building on Elizabetes Street 2 has been built from some environmentally harmful materials. Whether it's like that or not, I really don't know. If so, more information would be needed about what the material is like. This building, so to say, decorates our city a long time ago, so that strange, just now, now, when we have to build a concert hall, we... that this is just what is happening now. So it should be clarified, and then it should come up with all those "for" and "no" who are. If this aspect of pollution does not exist, then I do not see what the reason is that we now mix that house on Elizabetes Street 2 and build a concert hall there. There are many different places in Riga... There are places that belong to your so-called oligarchs. There are places that don't belong to your so-called oligarchs. Well, there's, of course, a lot of space... There are many different places. And I think that AB Dam project wasn't so bad at all. Well, okay, one thing is money. But... The money we have, yes, because we have borrowed so that we will immediately have this debt four times more than we have... So... I think, well, where that money is, somewhere that money has to be. And that's it. But now... So, I think we need to look for it, look for it fast. And that place is definitely not Elizabeth Street 2! Now what we want to see at all is this new concert hall. We're talking about form again, we're talking about where and what the building will be, but again, again, we forget about the content that... What... then the building will be filled. However, I think this is very, very important - what we will then want to listen to in this new building. And here again is exactly the same thing as the public media. The village wants to build a new building, but the content stays somewhere. I think we should understand from the beginning what exactly and then where we will listen. Why am I saying that? Do we want to hear only Latvian or Latvian artists there? Also - essential... I think that many of you here would have something to say. Would we like to hear there, let's say, Vanessa Maya, too? Will this concert hall be a level concert hall where you can go to Vaness May... The one she'd like to speak to? Well, then you have to think again about where those people are... Well, will we only listen to us, those who live here, or will listen, let us say, guests of the city? You will go, but then all the hotels will be closed to us, because of this Covid-19 crisis! And that's it. There are a lot of things to think about. Are we going to have enough staff handling staff to serve this concert hall? It should be borne in mind that staff shortages are enormous. Foreigners... Is that so? I don't think we're going to want foreigners to go now and serve them, either, for example, tourists from Scandinavia who will be here to... Well, as I said... Vanessa Mee's concert. Well, Vaness Maya is such a good example. But there is another good example. Let's say, I'd be very happy to hear Grigory Leeps at this concert hall. He's got a charming figure. I think it's very, very useful... contents... from such songs as the Rumok Vodki Stoli and If the jedu žit v London... Now let's not hide - Grigory Leeps is one of the most popular song performers not only in the middle of the Russian-speaking audience, but also... Well, also among Latvians! If any of you don't see it, then... then I don't know where... in what environment you live because... Well, maybe I have the wrong company I've been dating with, those are my friends, but the Latvians! There's no other people. They go to the heart of these songs. But I have a question: at this concert hall Grigorijs Leps, who, as I understand, is still forbidden to enter Latvia, will be able to speak or will not be able to speak? And then, dear friends... Yes, as for music, I can say, dear friends... Dear music friends, where will the politics end, and where will the music begin at this concert hall? And wonderful... I liked it that... Martin Bondard's saying that! Marty, there's such a charm in you when you get up on that truce! Then you're so excited that I think sometimes you don't even understand what you're talking about. Well, let's say, this nihi... You look so nihilistic...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U17	Mrs. Liepaja, how about you returning to the subject of document submission and public involvement... in relation to the draft concert hall?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U18	We're talking about the project as a whole, and that's the story of what we...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U19	We talk about documents, not about who will sing and who wants to listen to this concert hall. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa continues to speak, but what she said is not exactly to be heard.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U20	Are you familiar, Mrs. Mourniece, with the documents?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U21	Please continue the debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U22	Please don't stop! Yes, there's a theme - a concert hall and music, right? We will listen to music at the concert hall. Will you enter the concert hall and stop the singer because you'll think someone doesn't sing like that?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U23	Comments on the style of the chair shall not be permitted. If you continue this way, you will be switched off the microphone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U24	Let me finish, Mrs. Mourniece, and then close the microphone and close the camera out! Can I finish it now?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U25	Yeah. Talk on the specific subject, on the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U26	I am also referring to the request, and I am also referring to the previous debate. Is it unacceptable to refer to what the previous speaker said?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U27	Please continue the debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U28	Yeah, wonderful. So I have a question: where specifically Mr Bondara... Is that so? Could I switch the camera? I don't want to look at Mrs. Mourniece's camera. Be so kind! How could I turn it off? Yeah, thank you, super! So, Mārtiņš Bondar calls from Raimonds Pauls' song at the Saeima Tribune, forgetting that... Well, he has also been, as he says, a “coauthor” for an event where Mr. Paul was left without money... Latvijas Krajbanka. Where else is it? Where else is it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is, in fact, all I wanted to say, Mrs Mourniece. Thank you for giving me the opportunity.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U29	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U30	(Dep. Kirštein says something, but it is not accurate. Follow the pause.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U31	Mr. Kirstein, we invite you... Mr. Kirstein has gone out of the system. Let us continue the debate. The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U32	Colleagues! As you say, this question about the concert hall is from the series - let's sing more, let's work less. It's a minor part. The serious part of this is as follows: I think... And that's what's happening all over the world... I don't understand why it doesn't happen in Latvia... that the concert hall or any other object of this type is generally coordinated with the municipality. Usually select... In fact, the interests of the municipality and the contribution to the selection of the location are taken into account. In this case... We now have a new leadership in Riga - modern, citizen-oriented. I think this project should be handed over to the municipality of Riga. Edgars Jaunups will be very happy about this. ( Fountain Noise) The municipality of Riga must implement the further development of this project. The national association, which, of course, like the UKP, wants... The UKP wants to build a prison... Every party wants to build something. The UKP wants to build a prison, and the National Association also wants to build something big. Each party has some kind of construction projects. But, I think, the National Association has more postage and entrances. This project should be transferred from the National Association to the ‘PROGRESSIVE’ and Development/About! - to the municipality of Riga. And it will implement this project, possibly also attracting private investors, private angels. The state will save from this - there will be excess resources for the state, which... Funds are insufficient, so they are recovered from idle benefits. For example, even these 10 million that are needed to demolish their building can be returned. In a word, that would be the right move. The fact that we need a concert hall... and probably a lot more than just concert halls... I accept that these needs are numerous and very much. The problem with this whole project is that every representative of power who drives a construction object wants such an extension of his pride. One wants a Fuko pendulum in the television tower, the other wants in the very center of Riga, in the park, the corresponding... So this pride, which... will probably stand empty, as people still drive away from Latvia. The problem is this: we are putting too much emphasis on concrete and taking too little account of people's interests. This issue concerns public involvement in the implementation of this specific project, namely the implementation of the concert hall project. And I have to tell you honestly: public opinion has not been important in Latvia when it comes to deciding on any issue. Medical pay is one example. We have a law that determines what medical pay should be. The doctors came to protest. Did the Saeima have an important view of the medical community? It wasn't important! And also in this case. I think we should stop pretending! The public opinion will not be important here, it will only be important to extend the pride of certain officials and to make the order in one particular place mandatory. In order to remove any suspicion of possible corruption towards the National Association, I would urge the National Association to abandon the project and do it logically - to return the project to the municipality of Riga, to transfer the mandate, to implement the development of this project with the participation of the municipality. It's like it's happening in the whole normal world. That would be right, and then we probably also had a beautiful concert hall. I think Edgars Jaunups would be very happy about such a turn of the situation; one could build a building next to “Art needs space”. And society would probably also be much more satisfied. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U33	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. Mr. Kirstein, we can't hear you. ( Noise.) Mr. Kirstein, we can't hear you!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U34	And you hear that? Hello!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U35	Hear it. Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U36	Thank you. The next Wednesday architects will also analyze this area. I think in this situation... the former headquarters of the Central Committee... Its location was the best possible. But now the situation has changed and the decision is probably out of date, because Riga City Council has really expressed its wish (also the new City Council) to be more involved in the construction and investigation of the necessary object for this city. Architects who have also committed themselves to organising a dandruff to analyze these places... Let us say different options, there are no problems to analyse the significance of the existing Congress House as well. In fact, the previous council considered that the Congress House was more supposed to come from various guest actors and humorists who had come to Moscow, and was not interested in some major, let's say, raising the meaning of this building. Which one of us has been there for a concert in the last two or three years? I remember the last time, B. B. King's speech more than 10 years ago. And I've also been there for some book exhibitions. Apparently, architects should analyse the future of the Congress House now that the power of the Riga City Council has changed. We know there's a second round, not built. And the question still remains whether you can't build a expensive building instead of building it as a supplement without radically building the existing building... build as a complement. There could then be disputes about the great height required for such a concert hall, which may be as high as the Latvian National Library - about 30 meters. But... Well, that question is already still valid with regard to the House on Elizabetes Street - the House of the former Central Committee. And then it's a question for architects: can't you immerse this supplement... Because there are parking spaces, communication and public spaces in the Congress House, and all this would cost you much less. Another option is the territory of the Republic. Currently there is an exhibition in the former headquarters of the Central Committee - there is an analysis of architect Uģis Šēnbergs about the use of the territory of the Republic; it is also extremely interesting. The Republic has large areas of state-owned land that have not been used. It is between the Ministry of Agriculture and their parking and the Ave Sol concert hall. And it's also a pretty interesting project. I would just like to remind you that already in the past the concert hall was designed and there was even a contract with the south-level builders for its construction, but due to changes and Latvia’s transition to a market economy, “money democracy” achieved the construction of Parex banka instead of the concert hall. These areas are still huge. And in fact, we have three good places. And the Minister of Culture also admitted that perhaps there should be a bit of a wider discussion in society. Architects could be very fast - it would not take a huge amount of time! - analyze all these three places. However, in any case - whether or not this concert hall will be in this place, in the former House of the Central Committee - we need to be clear about the future of the great place occupied by the current House of Congress, because there can be no such building with some unclear functions, in which in fact nothing serious has been happening for years. And one could also solve its perhaps outdated architectural appearance. Architects can do it both in the flat and in the... may also launch a sketch contest for these three sites, reviewing the issue again in order to avoid this crowding-out of society. Such competitions do not take longer than a few months. It's also not very expensive. And then, finally, it would be a point, also considering that Riga... as I said, Riga has a new leadership. And this concert hall will in any case be built in cooperation with the city of Riga with the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U37	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U38	Good morning, everybody! ( Not clear.) ... You can't hear anything. I agree with the request...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U39	You can hear it, but speak more loudly, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U40	I agree with the applicants who asked these questions. Indeed, this situation is not clear and has not been fully debated, and the right decisions should be made in front of us; they should be adopted. But what I would like to stress today and note about the procedure for examining this request - that this time... I don't know how long it takes... this is at least the first time that the Minister himself participates in the examination of the request... the Minister to whom the request is addressed. He is here, he is ready to respond to this request, to answer for his decisions. I very much hope - I very much hope! - that this will not be the only time; that this is not the only minister who is unwilling to come to the Saeima and answer for his decisions. I hope that when we look at OIC-related requests, there will be an economic minister here. I hope that he too will come and explain, will underpin the meaning and relevance of his actions to the interests of Latvian society. Or simply cowardly (not clear.) ... Then we will know clearly that there is no hope that anyone is ready to fight the OIC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U41	Thank you. Name for Minister of Culture Naurim Puntulis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U42	Hello, colleagues! Thank you for the opportunity to participate here and talk to you for the second time. Looking a little bit back at what was said at the previous Saeima sitting, I have some answers. I have some benefits: the questions to which I have answered and the questions to which I would like to answer (Laughing.) ... I'm sorry! Because, of course, we're... you are a mirror of society and the same questions are asked from the public as well. So, first of all, about the opposition. When I mentioned the opposition last time in my speech, I did not really mean the opposition here as an opposition to the Saeima, I meant the opposition that part of the architects and part of the public. And I already mentioned economic power, about its interests... And you can't think... Some of the manifestations of this opposition are well organized, professional and... I do not rule out that someone else's interests may even be paid. At the same time, I accept that, in part of the opposition, this is simply a matter of taste... the tastes we're going to talk about later. Secondly, the calculations. Contrary to Mr Dolgopolova's uncharacteristically offensive remark, this decision is based directly on the calculation. As I have already mentioned, this is the opinion of the public limited liability company State Real Estate on the renovation costs of the building. All of this is being clarified very much once again, very much examined, and this opinion - already in such a wider study - will be available to the wider public in mid-October in order to remove any doubts about the value or validity of this opinion. A few years ago, a serious architect firm received an assignment from private investors to analyse this building in the relevant context - whether this building could be equipped with a hotel or whether this building could be transformed for the needs of modern offices. Unfortunately, the opinion was negative, because the construction of this building, the construction of this building, prevents the establishment there of modern-day hotels or offices meeting modern requirements. For the value of the building. This one too is very... Either, rather, a theoretical, perhaps even demagogic issue from Mr. Valaiņš - about these 10 million as the value of the building. Because the value of this building - 10 million - is theoretical. Undoubtedly, there's a huge value to the building's land, but... We are all well aware of what is called a building whose renovation value is many times above the building's practical value. And if the question was whether it was worth investing theoretically even 10 million to get just a place for the concert hall, I'll remind you that a moment ago we were prepared to invest 32 million to be just a place for the concert hall. The next item is taste. You won't argue for a taste, as Dana Reizniece-Ozola said. Yes, so that we do not argue about tastes, according to the order of our country, it is that we determine... The cultural significance and value of the building is determined by the National Cultural Heritage Board. It is the institution that deals with it every day, participates in various international conferences, and follows the latest European practice. This institution consists of experienced specialists, architects, art historians (with scientific degrees!) . Yes, the opinion of this institution is the basis of our decisions, so that we do not argue about taste. Unfortunately, it is precisely the disputes about taste that are one of the main reasons why we still do not have a concert hall. Our tastes will always differ. They will be against both architects and politicians. And we'll never disparate them. And we'll never be able to build... start the construction of a concert hall without a decision of the government. Governments that include and will include parties and people with different, sometimes opposite tastes and possibly also with opposite interests. There is also an answer to Mr Gobzem's question why we have refused to build a concert hall on the AB Dam. And from this context, I am calling for an assessment of this government decision, this step that brings us closer to the concert hall as never before. And finally, on ambitions and objectives. I don't want to be confused that these would be my private or my personal ambitions, my private goals or... As Mr Gobzem said, I would like to enter history with this. I repeat: at the moment when the concert hall is built, there will have been several more ministers of culture and my name will have long been forgotten in connection with the concert hall. In terms of ambitions, I had thought more of the country's ambitions in this case. It must be acknowledged that, since our accession to NATO and to the European Union, we have not been able to define and set national targets. We've been looking for our own...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U43	Mr. Puntull, I have to say that the speaking time is over. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U44	Hello, Madam President. Dear Members, 15 years ago, when I started working in this institution, there was a very intense discussion about the Castle of Light - the National Library of Latvia. Everyone said: When we build a national book store, the cultural life in Latvia will sting and flourish. Today, however, we see that this building is half-empty. Sometimes national conferences and strategic events take place there, and then the National Library is closed even to the few readers who visit it. However, there is no popular trail to the Castle of Light! It seems to me that the same fate awaits the national concert hall if it is built; it will be at any place - Elizabetes iela 2 or at another corner of Riga. I suggest you think about the fact that in Riga still stands, already for 30 years, the abandoned and unfinished... Let's say, the hospital in Vecmilgrāvs, the polyclinic in Ķengarags, the maternity house in Mežciems and other buildings that could fit for specific needs of Latvian citizens - health, demographics and so on. I do not belong to those people who think that in themselves the need for the construction of its concert hall is an axiom. It's not an axiom, because over the last 10 years in Riga, here, in the same area... “Area Riga” has been built, the concert hall “Hanza platform” has been built, which is a very modern object suitable for chamber music and larger concerts. I can remind you that for the centenary of Latvia, national events were also held in Arena Riga. Of course, the State paid for them to the owners of the concert hall. But! I think that no more than two or three of these measures can be implemented over the years. And if the state can then find one or two million euros in competition to pay for the application of the space, equipment and so on, it will be much more useful than building a house, which must then be heated and maintained by a large number of employees... and so on, and so on. We should ask ourselves once again whether we really need such a large-scale construction in this unusual economic and epidemiological situation. I therefore support this request and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U45	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U46	Hello, colleagues! Once again, thank the Minister for expressing his views. However, I would like to remind you that the request is precisely about the procedure: how did we come to a decision by the government so far, so to say. And a little bit about the argument from the Minister. Home value, these figures are not already our own figure, they are the figures that are mentioned in your own documents. And for... Also about renovation of this house and such future opinions... Such future opinions should have been the moment you made your decision, not sometime in a more transparent future. I still believe that market value is a market value. And if it's 7 million and the demolition value is 3 million, then these 10 million... However, this figure raises the question of how useful it is. In the very recent past, we have seen the sale of a slum in the centre of Riga “State Real Estate”. And the library building on Barona Street... And that house also had a value that... Even if a slum... it was not a hundred thousand - it was a measureable value in millions. I think this house is in a much better position. We are talking about renovations and improving energy efficiency measures. I would like to remind you that together we have also managed to restore Jelgava castle and make it energy efficient. And also there is a very high cultural and historical value, especially on the facades... But improving energy efficiency... front is not the only thing that gives this effect. That is why I would call on the government to continue to take this issue very responsibly - responsible for taxpayers, responsible for taxpayers' money, choosing the place... and in particular - in cooperation with Riga City Council... jointly reaching the best choice of location. Once again, I think the best place... The best solution would be the development of a let-down, degraded area in Riga, not a very well-ordered area, very high value-added area. Well, in the face of a real big challenge, we'd put ourselves and... It would be better to actually restore a degraded area. So I think about this request that... I still believe that this is the place. The Minister, too, in his reasoning... in principle, this has been recognised, in the case of a number of things which should have been clear for the time being. Future Form... that architects will still decide... that property valuations and potential costs will still be sometime in the future... All these issues - especially when it comes to such money-intensive projects - about the involvement of public money! - be clear before the decision is taken and not after it has been taken. And I will remind you once again of what the Minister mentioned at the outset - about these disputes and struggles. Perhaps there would be less such a dispute and struggle if one of the places for which information is already available in the application documents was chosen. The 100 thousand euros spent on research, in justifications about various places in Riga where there could be a concert hall... It is sad that without the involvement of the municipality of Riga, the opinion of Riga is very little mentioned there. But maybe something could change there... And you could... together with Riga... find a place that would be good... not only to close a ghost of the past, but also... also take care to develop a full urban area, object... All the Rigas, too... and, together, for a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U47	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U48	Hello, colleagues! I will reflect on the statement by the Minister for Culture. Perhaps this is unexpected, but I am on the minister's side in terms of both pragmatism and taste, because, unlike some, I have been in this building since 2000. I know very well how this building looks from inside... and even from those cellars, which there are many there. But... I would like to say that once, just recently, there was an Israeli Embassy in this building and that the fact that this Embassy left the building could indicate that it really does not meet the standards of modern office buildings, purely pragmatically. In terms of age, it could also be agreed that this place could really be a great place for the construction of the Riga Concert Hall. But! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this demand is neither pragmatic nor taste. This request concerns the submission of questionable quality documents and the lack of public involvement. This request concerns the quality and practice of decision-making in our country - who makes decisions - and the extent to which those who make decisions listen to the views of architects - political or non-political. And above all, to what extent society itself is involved in these decisions. Simply put, has the people been asked what people think about this decision? Another issue that could really be addressed within the framework of this request is how good the public limited liability company “State Real Estate” (formerly “State Real Estate Agency”) is and also the ministries, which own a large number of buildings in Riga. As my colleagues have rightly pointed out in the past, there are so many degraded areas in Riga that have been degraded precisely because of “State Real Estate” and Ministry management! I sincerely recommend, for example, to Mrs Šuplinska and Mr Pabrika to visit Daugavgriva and to see the buildings in the Flotes Street district, and to see the roasted swimming pool buildings of the Ministry of Education and Science and the buildings of the former Soviet Carbase, which belong to the Ministry of Defence, and simply to find out whether people in this area are good people living in these state-owned buildings. The Ministry of Defence could also ask the citizens of Kisezer Street if they like all the buildings that have turned into ruins precisely because of the poor management of the country. That is the question that could be asked within the framework of this request. And there is the third question - the Minister for Culture. Has an audit been carried out on how well state-owned buildings are managed, such as the Latvian National Opera and Ballet, theatre... And these buildings are also rented to concert organizers. Is everything okay there? Is its management really good and in line with national interests? So - and I repeat this - it is about the quality of the decisions: who makes why makes, as quickly as possible. And is it really accepted for the benefit of the State and for the benefit of the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U49	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U50	Hello, dear colleagues! I want to say to the public that the concert hall cannot be placed in an arena, the concert hall cannot be built in a degraded area by building it in a abandoned house because... precisely because it is an acoustic concert hall - with very high requirements for sound quality. And nowhere in the world we know any concert hall that would be the highest-level concert hall in which to play hockey. Therefore, these thoughts that a concert hall could be in Arena Riga or in some abandoned body somewhere in the outskirts of the city are not real. Because you don't send people to this concert hall. Let us now turn aside such thoughts! Those who regularly attend concerts - and high-level concerts! - know that when the tickets were presented in Latvia, for example, Elīna Garanča or Maris Jansons, or other world-class musicians, they were not available at all, they were bought in seconds. And that's the dream, that's the goal: that we have an acoustic concert hall where both Plasido Domingo and Berlin philharmonics can perform! The fact that there will be no viewers - there are no concerns at all about this. The audience will be, and this concert hall will be filled and loaded enough. On existing state property. Could I put another concert hall there? Opera house is for opera. And let's not take into account the Covid-19 time now, but let's see what happened before it was Covid-19! Opera house was adequately loaded with both opera and ballet performances. At the same time, the Latvian National Symphony Orchestra was forced to organize both attempts and concerts in the building of the Great Guild, which long ago demanded reconstruction to be appropriate, suitable for our musicians and guest artists to change at least normally before going to the stage. And where else is the quality of sound, which is already at the level of the past century! So these buildings cannot carry the load that the new concert hall should carry. So let's hold on to that dream - to this acoustic concert hall! And let us all make sure that the concert hall is built and that it is as serviceable as possible to the public! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U51	Name of Minister for Culture Naurim Puntulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U52	Thank you. Colleagues! I will try very briefly to say what I did not get to say at the first time. Firstly, the quality of the documents, which is questionable. No, the quality of the documents is beyond doubt! And, as I said, what is being done now... they are the same... the same decisions that are only being examined in depth - both the evaluation of the building, which has been, but which are being examined in depth, as well as other decisions. It is simply an in-depth study, not a study that has not been... Secondly. I would ask you to look at this from a rational point of view. The building on Elizabetes Street 2 will cause us problems sooner or later. The quality of building construction is not such that the building could stand there in the long term - for a hundred years or longer (as opposed to Art Nouveau and other ancient buildings). We will have to return to the question of the quality of the particular building anyway, even if the concert hall is located somewhere else in theory. And finally, this symbolic moment, to which I would like to draw your attention. This is an excellent place in Riga, one of the most outstanding places in Riga, and in this most outstanding place a commparty building was built, thus giving the public a message, which is then our main... At that time, during the Soviet period, the commparty building was its main building. My offer is now - we are finally changing these accents and debts, which is the main thing in our country! In our country, the main thing is not the commparty building, but culture. Culture, because we have established our country as a nation of culture. And let's end up looking for noisles, Silicon Valleys and other things! Our poison is our culture, especially our music. And let us give this symbolic accent by giving the best place in Riga to this very piece of our story - our culture, our music! We will never build a concert hall if we look for answers to the question - why no. We have to agree and ask ourselves why yes. And if we all ask ourselves why “yes” - this is the only way we get to the concert hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U53	Thank the Minister. The name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U54	Colleagues Members of the Saeima! Minister! I wanted to make a little comment on what I heard in today's debate. Mr Janson mentioned that you should not build concert halls in a demolished place or in an old building. I would say, colleagues, absolutely stupid! And this is one of the aspects that have also been presented and analysed many times by experts who have studied the experience of different countries, where successful examples can be seen that it is precisely this - by building a concert hall or any other cultural building with significant architectural value - that develops degraded areas, districts or regions, or places in cities. Locations that have been abandoned, where crime has been high, where the quality of life has been low, can suddenly flourish and become popular places of interest for tourists and also for local people. This is one aspect of how the location of the concert hall should be assessed! Or by the fact that we're trying to get it in some way in the city centre... I agree, one of the most outstanding places in Riga... if we're trying to get it in a place that's naturally full of prosperity, where there's naturally already a tow... instead of using its potential, we can also turn degraded areas into wonderful and pleasant living, business environment, tourism... This is one aspect that needs to be taken into account before making a final decision on learning from others, rather than trying to reinvent a bicycle. I would also like to take advantage of this situation and the fact that we have been honoured by our presence again by the Minister, and also to raise one other issue, which may not be directly linked, but I think it is also very important when we think about the priorities at a time of crisis. We're not in a standard situation right now. And that is why I am also embarrassed by the fact that we are paying so much attention right now to the construction of a concert hall - right now, when we see that there are many other problems in the cultural sector, including the lack of remuneration for those working in the cultural sector, including the solution now proposed by other colleagues in the government to quickly increase the tax burden. And the fact that the restrictions currently imposed by the Covid-19 make it a real burden for those working in the cultural sector and also in the music sector to work. And here I would like to mention the choirs that have still been declared to be a particularly dangerous area since March, by denying them a normal, professional attempt to work on limiting the distance for choirs to two metres - in a situation where, as has already been mentioned today, we will see a marathon in Riga next week, where people will probably not be two metres away from each other and there will be a rather large slump. Again, we are talking about research - on which we base our decisions on how we take them. If there are studies (BDC, one example), which recognise that speaking and singing are equally dangerous, then obviously we should also set a two-metre limit in all other areas. This is one of the examples I wanted to mention, given that they are your people, Minister, representatives of your industry, who are raising this issue and who appreciate your work. Do you think only about the construction of a concert hall or about current problems and solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U55	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U56	Yeah. Good morning! On behalf of the Commission, it is noted that the request was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Viktors Valaiņa, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Jānis Vacāns, Ulda Augulis, Māra Kučinska, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Dūklavs, Janīna Jalinska, Armands Krauze, Vjačeslavs Dombrovska's request to the Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš and the Minister of Culture Naurims Puntulis "On the submission of questionable quality documents and the public's non-involved, directing the order of the Cabinet of Ministers on implementation of the national concert hall project on Elizabetes Street 2, Riga"! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! - 31, 55, abstain - not. The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please be able to register! Registration of the participants of the meeting shall take place. Registration has been successfully completed. Dear colleagues, First of all, messages. So we're going on a break. During the break, an extraordinary meeting was convened on 1 October - remotely. Please disable... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Get out of the system! And at 10.45, we start on the e-platform, remotely, at 1st October. Dear colleagues, And now one very important statement too: 25 September was celebrated by our colleague Lubova Švecova, and 26 September by our colleague Nikolai Cabanov. We welcome them. (Applause) Another statement. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U58	Dear members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and honourable members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax)! Request - let us start the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission sitting now! As long as we do it, we do it, and then... then let's do it then if we can't do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U59	Thank you. Interruption. 10.45 - 1 October meeting remotely (on the e-Saema platform). ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U60	Honourable Members! We will continue to take stock of the agenda for the meeting on 24 September this year. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U61	Hello, dear colleagues! I briefly recall that the draft law provides for the provision of a postal delivery service and compensation for the damage caused by the service. No proposals were submitted to the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U62	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” at second, final, final reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U63	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has supported the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”. ( A sound defect.) These amendments provide, in substance, for two cases. First, to ensure early development for all children by 1 September 2021 (Sound defect). ... from one and a half years to three years of age to promote... Disorders (Sound defect) ... possible early recognition of special needs. Second, as of 1 July 2021, the state and local authorities will provide all children (the sound defect.) ... assessment (Sound defect) ... compulsory education... and to provide individual educational and psychological support measures appropriate to the needs of the child at public, municipal and private training institutions. Only one proposal has been received at the third reading, which is a editorial proposal from the Social and Labour Commission - to create (A sound defect.) ... the amendments adopted by this Law on 11 July 2020. This changes the transitional provision (A sound defect.) ... This proposal is supported by the Commission. I call on Members to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U64	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U65	Dear colleagues, Currently, many children in the education system of Latvia suffer because they do not receive timely support due to functional development disorders. For example, autism has many manifestations, and it is not always possible for parents or teachers to recognize them and attract qualified help. These amendments provide us with a strong tool to provide timely and effective support for the development of every child. The earlier people start working with their functional development, the less will need to be invested later to help people with functional disorders to live a full life. Early assessment of development is the most effective way of improving the quality of life for many people from 2021 onwards. The second improvement, once the amendments enter into force, will affect the education system. By launching compulsory education at the age of five, all children will have access to pre-school testing to determine whether they have special needs and to understand what individual support is needed. This will allow for a much better individualisation of the approach to learning in the coming school years as well. Of course, much remains to be done by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Science to ensure that the norms of the law work in life. It is necessary to work on the adaptation of evaluation methodology to Latvian circumstances. There are such methodologies in the world, and so are our neighbours, the Nordic countries. And now they will also become available to Latvian doctors and educators. I thank Members, including other political groups who responded to the call for these amendments, and will continue to work with the responsible ministries to make sure that in 2021 a development evaluation with the subsequent support of all Latvian children will be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U66	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U67	Colleagues! I would like to call on all of you to strongly support these proposals and the draft law as a whole, because it is really a very, very important issue for all parents who have the destiny of bringing up such children. What is happening now - children, with the same autism mentioned above, are forced to stay not in special pre-school institutions but with other children; they do not receive the support they need for their full development. In addition, many parents are still forced to pay very much money so that they can learn and develop into those children who are absolutely healthy when they reach the age of seven or eight. I think that this provision is only the first step in the right direction to support both such children and their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U68	Thank you. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission to proposal 1?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U69	No, there is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. I would like to call for support for this proposal. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U70	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! For - 79, for - no, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U71	That's... And now, honourable colleagues, I call on the draft law to be supported in its entirety - third, final, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U72	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” in the third, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U73	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”. Seven proposals have been submitted for the third reading of the draft law. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which intends to clarify the competence of the Court of Economic Affairs with regard to cases of construction disputes. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U74	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 57, for - 4, for - 4, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U75	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is the legal technique... clarification of the technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U76	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 5, for - 5, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U77	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Mr. Janis Bordens, which provides for the exclusion of Article 3 of the draft law, given that the Economic Court of Justice decides autonomously on each jurisdiction of the application to the court. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U78	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 56, for - 5, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U79	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau identical to the one previously supported for proposal 3. And it is also supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U80	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 58, for - 1, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U81	5. - a proposal from Ms Inese Lībiņa-Ener. It provides that, in future, an application for temporary protection against violence can also be submitted to the court after the applicant's location. Thus, the victim of violence will not be restricted in access to justice. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U82	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U83	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. I would really like to thank the Legal Commission for its unanimous support for this proposal. And it is not important who tabled this proposal, but it is important that we, as a commission, are at a time when public news is that we want the regulation that we drafted. During the Saeima, however, there's a lot of big scars... Re:Baltica had published an article about a woman who, saving from the violence, had found refuge outside his home in Riga and had prepared a legally correct application in the court of Riga, but these violences had occurred outside Riga... The application was not accepted by the court. Finally... This particular story is with a very tragic end: the death of a woman was now an adult daughter: her father had violently killed her. In the Legal Commission, we have always, with great care, dealt with all the proposals relating to this specific regulation in the Civil Procedure Law. At the moment, the Legal Commission is examining a number of proposals for a second reading, from the Ministry of Justice, including the proposal that we, as a country, could also make some financial commitments: to cover social rehabilitation for the more violent, in the hope that we can also reduce domestic violence. However, this proposal was tabled in this draft law, as this draft law is already much closer to the adoption of the law. That is, now there is a third, final, reading. And although we usually do not support the Legal Commission if, before the third, final reading, we put forward such important proposals, this time we agreed with our colleagues and agreed that in this particular case, even at third reading... such a proposal can be supported. Therefore, I would like to thank all colleagues in the Legal Commission once again for updating this really important issue and that we are working on this issue... and continue to work in other Civil Procedure Law... draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U84	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal from Member Inese Lībiņa-Ener! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U85	6. - a proposal from Ms Inese Lībiņa-Ener. This is linked to a proposal that was previously supported. In particular, the possibility of lodging an application not only after the place where the offence is committed, but also after the location of the applicant is harmonised. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U86	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal from Member Lībiņa-Egnere! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U87	And finally 7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which complements the transitional provisions of the law on jurisdiction of cases. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U88	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Minister Bordan's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 57, for - 7 and for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U89	Colleagues! On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U90	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 65, it's 21, it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U91	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. Draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, which the Legal Commission has examined and prepared for second reading, is related to zero as the draft law adopted at final reading “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”. In particular, they are both related to the jurisdiction and competence of the Economic Court. In this, second, reading... 30 proposals have been received regarding the jurisdiction of criminal proceedings. 1. - A proposal from Member Ata Zakatistova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U92	Let us start a debate. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U93	Hello, colleagues! We are continuing our negotiations on the functioning of the Economic Court and how it should work. My proposal, this proposal, which I will first comment on (and also quote experts' opinion), is that a deadline - one year - should be set for consideration... or, if this is not the case, the obligation to explain why it is not the case. I will quote again from the evaluation of the Latvian judicial system based on the organization... the methodology and tools developed for the Efficiency of Justice. That is, on page 137, as I said earlier... I'll say again... I began by quoting: "The setting of time limits is only the first step towards continuous positive tensions in order to reduce the length of proceedings without prejudice to the quality of decisions. It is not possible to improve the length of proceedings without a strong commitment by the President of the Court and judges, as well as by the staff of the Court to comply with these time limits.” ( End quoted) Once again, I will touch on the issue of the location of a specialised court in our justice system, and I return to what experts have said. They write about the specialised courts as follows (page 33): ‘In the absence of a rotation or exchange procedure, the permanent appointment of a judge to the same specialised court may lead to the creation of unauthorised acquaintances with a limited range of lawyers and experts. It is therefore essential to strengthen the independence and impartiality of such specialised courts and judges.’ As we see in the political group, the meaning of the Economic Court is that the Economic Court assists the judicial system in places that are weaker. And its weakest points are, not civil cases, but criminal cases. We therefore believe that the focus of the Economic Court should be on criminal matters. I'll talk to you again... I and the next proposal... The fact is that the court must transfer absolutely all the cases of a given article, because it is the only way to help the justice system. If the Court of Economic Cases is given the right to refer the cases back to other courts, it does not at any time assist the judicial system as such, because the judicial system must maintain the competence to assess the established cases as well. Thus, the assistance that the specialised court can do is to exempt judges from hearing certain cases in other courts. Well, there would be the right help, but that doesn't happen. What could at present be a risk for the operation of the specialised court is the so-called referral of cases. I return to what the experts said about the referral of cases. On page 137 of the same study, it states: ‘The present practice of transferring cases to balance the burden of burden should be carefully analysed as it raises concerns. Generally speaking, European judicial authorities do not transfer cases from one court to another in order to deal with excessive pressure." I'll talk to you again... I will also speak on my next proposal. And I hope that if my proposals are not supported at this reading... And that proposal is based on three categories of cases: fraud, tax evasion and money laundering. In the next, third, reading, it would be possible for the specialised court to be referred, even if the washing questions (but - absolutely all!) , because this is the way to help the justice system. I return to the content of the proposal. It was about one year's law... establish one year as a review period. Please support it because it really is, as experts say, the first step towards continuous positive tensions. Please support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U94	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U95	Yes, Mr. Zakatistov is just a genius - constant positive tension! It is possible to keep it from this point: you are under constant positive tension in Latvia's policy, Mr Zakatistov. I will call for this proposal not to be supported, above all because it is encouraged by Mr Zakatistov. Mr Zakatistov should not be in Latvian politics at all, according to what he has worked. Consequently, no word from Mr Zakatistova, no proposal he has put before me will be credible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U96	I call for a specific proposal to be discussed.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U97	Yeah, for economic... But I am talking about the applicant. Why can't I talk about the applicant?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U98	Talk about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U99	No, it is also very important who is tabling this proposal. Mrs Mūrniece, don't stop me because I have it (It's not clear.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U100	Talk, please, about this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U101	This proposal has been made by a person who, in my opinion, is in no way able to express... the voter's trust. I therefore have doubts about the content of this proposal. What's not clear?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So I call on you not to support it because... So first of all, because the applicant is Zakaistov. Second, because economic courts have no place in the Latvian court system. One truth - one truth for all! Without an economic court. Listen to what the judges say, and listen to what they say once... what really industry experts say, instead of reinvent something! Thank you for your attention. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U102	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U103	Dear colleagues, All these proposals, these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, have been examined on several occasions in the Sub-Commission on Criminal Law Policy, where experts from different fields have analysed each proposal correctly. But to make it quite clear why the majority of the Legal Commission rejected this proposal by Mr Zakatistov - precisely as a one-year deadline for criminal proceedings - I would like to read out a brief argument from the protocol. In particular, the proposal was not supported - the representative of the Ministry of Justice, Gratkovska, says - given that setting a time limit for the adjudication of cases in fact undermines both the quality of the trial and the right of a person to a fair trial. I invite you to take into account the fifth paragraph of Section 14 of Criminal Procedure Law, which states: “Failure to comply with a reasonable period of time may constitute grounds for termination of proceedings in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Law.” This is a horizontal norm. Thus (A sound defect.) ... the norm, which would apply directly to the Economic Court, in the view of the Ministry of Justice, is not acceptable. I stress that the deadline of the year for criminal cases pending before the Economic Court is not reasonable. It is likely that these cases will not be dealt with in the course of the year because they are very complex. I add that it is not clear what obstacles to that provision are to be regarded as objective, namely whether they also relate to the scope and legal complexity of the case or only to circumstances such as the failure to carry out proceedings for objective reasons. I would add that the proposal was further discussed in the Permanent Working Group of the Ministry of Justice for the Development of Amendments to Criminal Procedure Law, where judges indicated that such a norm should not be supported. And on the basis of this and other arguments, the majority of the Legal Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U104	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Zakatistova's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 9, for - 52, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U105	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It has been developed taking into account the recommendations of the OECD, and it provides that in pre-trial proceedings, an investigator may request from sworn auditors information on facts that they have become aware when providing professional services, or question whether to inspect or withdraw documents held by sworn auditors, with the consent of the supervising prosecutor or the prosecutor. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U106	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U107	Dear colleagues! I would urge you not to support this proposal because the sworn auditors themselves were against this proposal. The Association of Sworn Auditors of Latvia is opposed to these amendments. And how do you think they're going now... just get the investigator to the sworn auditors and ask them to give them all the information now? So what is that? What kind of country do we live in? Any political country or how? Then we define that Latvia is no longer a democratic state, that we are policemen everywhere... on every corner, all checked, all arrested... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What's going on here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I call on those who still have common sense to vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U108	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U109	Yeah... Dear colleagues, Obviously, this proposal also involves amendments to the Audit Services Act, which we also objected to in the same way... and tabled amendments. Today we will also continue to talk about them. And I will also call on you not to support this proposal because, when examining this issue and also when discussing it with the representatives of the auditors, and when listening to the debate at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, when the issue of the Audit Services Act was discussed, we came to the conclusion that these amendments are actually encouraged because the quality of the investigation was limped. And in fact, it's just like that... Well, intellectual assistance to the representatives of the investigating authorities to make it easier for them to understand all their financial flows and... and to make it easier for them to deal with these things. This will seriously interfere, of course, with the work of sworn auditors, because if, for example, documents are removed and devices are removed, then... It will also, of course, greatly impede the performance of their duties. I will call on you not to support this proposal, in order to really keep some remains of reason and not, let us say, try to address the quality of investigations at the expense of the work of sworn auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U110	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what can be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U111	A representative of the Association of Sworn Auditors of Latvia participated in the meeting of the Legal Commission. We also received written objections. They were all heard at both commission and sub-committee meetings, but the majority of Members in the Legal Commission supported the vision of the Ministry of Justice, which I had previously reported on. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 45, for - 6, for - 6. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U113	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. This relates to the next proposal, 4, and is aimed at shortening the time limit for expertise. The proposal provides that, in future, a particular expert is to be identified in the decision on the determination of an expert only if he or she is not employed by an expert at an institution. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U114	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 50, for - no, for - 6. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U115	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which states that in cases where the expert is assigned to an expert body, the expert will be determined by the head of that body by notifying the head of the process. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U116	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - no, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U117	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It seeks to strengthen the responsibility of judicious lawyers and prosecutors in the performance of their procedural duties, i.e. the proposal provides that a lawyer and prosecutor may be subject to warnings and forced money as procedural sanctions, but cannot be expelled from the courtroom. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U118	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 53, for - 1, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U119	6. - a proposal from the responsible commission, namely the Legal Commission, which guarantees the right of a person to know what crime it is charged with and what evidence is in the case... in relation to the person concerned. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - no, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U121	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partly supported, included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U122	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 10, for - 42, for - 10, for - 42, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U123	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal. It provides for the addition of a list of the case-file and documents to the decision to refer the criminal case to the court, as well as a list of the persons whose evidence is included in the list of the evidence to be used by the court. This proposal is supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U124	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - no, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U125	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U126	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! About -6, against -36, refraining -12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U127	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It provides that persons subject to pre-trial investigation will be designated in the decision to refer a criminal case to the court as persons whose evidence is included in the list of evidence to be used. This would ensure that the court and the parties will be able to apply for such evidence again without inviting the witnesses to the court. The Commission is supported. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U128	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 49, for - no, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U129	11. - A proposal from Member Ata Zakatistova. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U130	Let's start a debate. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U131	Hello, colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to three aspects of this proposal. First, let us try to understand how a specialised court can help the justice system as a whole. Secondly, let us return to the issue of reassignment or referral. And, thirdly, I would also like to make a few comments on our responsibility as legislator. The question of how to help the justice system as a whole. If the specialised court takes over completely one category of everything... Seeing all cases, it helps the system, because then other judges do not need to maintain qualifications for watching certain cases. Currently, if a specialised court selectively looks at certain cases, this does not help the system, because the rest of the system needs to maintain qualifications so that such cases can be examined. That is why we in the Group also insist that the Economic Court should look at absolutely all cases in certain categories, which people naturally regard as categories of economic crime. And these are three categories: fraud, money laundering and tax evasion. I therefore ask for support for this proposal, because it is precisely this type of assistance to the justice system. The second point I would like to raise is the transfer of cases to other courts. Transfer of cases to other courts conceals potential for corruption and potential for... Well, in popular terms... the specialised court will be able to choose “files” from a certain category and leave them not too desirable pieces for other judges of the judicial system to deal with them all. The question of referral is therefore relevant. And I'll quote again... I would like to say once again to the experts in the assessment of the judicial system. They write there: “The measures relating to the re-allocation or transfer of cases, which are currently widely used to solve the problem of the overload of courts in Riga courts, may raise questions regarding the requirements of the court established by law, as well as the full implementation of the principle of legitimate expectations. Therefore, Latvian legislators should consider amending the legal framework by establishing clear and predictable criteria, principles and guarantees for fair re-allocation of cases.” So... In this case, if this proposal, and also the Group's proposal, is rejected, I would like to ask the Commission for the third reading... submit that all cases are reviewed in the Economic Court in a certain category (and currently the most important category for Latvia is money laundering). This would help the justice system as well as make rules clearer for specialised courts... the examination of cases. And the third question that I alleged to be - it's so broader... Let us say, a philosophical question about what responsibility we, as legislator, have when we adopt certain legislative acts. And here we have to turn... And I have to look... If the public considers that there are three groups of economic crimes - and they are, as I said, fraud, tax evasion and money laundering - then we, as the legislator, should take very careful action so that we do not tell the public with a degree of vigor... and would not change its views on what economic matters and economic crimes are, because now, when we adopt the law, we do not say what economic crimes are. All we say is that what the Economic Court will choose to look at is economic crime. And here, as legislator, we get known, now, in conflict with what society thinks. And that's not, well, a reasonable approach to juggle. Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U132	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U133	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Uh... Mr. Zakatistov... Yeah... So... Well, when a citizen of dubious reputation starts to talk about things like the responsibility of the legislator, I would like to remind you that this Member has not, above all, passed the scrutiny of their responsibility... above all against their constituents. We are talking about the person who has tabled this proposal. So maybe don't try to stop me! If a citizen of dubious reputation makes a proposal and does not give a very good reason why... why it has been tabled at all, and its motivation does not fully convince me, then I suspect why such a proposal has been tabled at all. For example, the phrase "We're from a fraction"...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U134	Mrs Liepaja, I call on you to talk about the specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U135	I am referring to the specific proposal. You stopped me...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U136	You are talking about the applicant. Please turn off the microphone! I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U137	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. ( A sound defect.) ... Mr Zakatistova's proposal, and we heard the Ministry of Justice... One of the arguments of the Ministry was that initially... The Court of Economic Affairs should start work and see how much competence it has already established... how many things would be and how they would deal with the extent of these things. However, when we listened to the Bureau of Legal Affairs, we realized that the part that Mr Zakatistov pointed out... on Article 195... That is, criminal offences, money laundering... in particular the first paragraph of this Article... be considered. And so... We, the Commission, by rejecting this proposal, entrusted the Ministry of Justice with the task of clarifying the competence of the court for the third reading and re-assessing how this... However, the first paragraph of Article 195 shall fall within the jurisdiction of the court. But this particular proposal was not supported by the Legal Commission, so I also call for it not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U138	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Mr Zakatistova's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U139	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U140	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 47, for - 1, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U141	13. - The legal commission's proposal. This is linked to proposal 15 - specify the deadline... at the disposal of the court... After having received the criminal case in court... This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U142	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 50, for - no, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U143	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. There is no support in the Commission. Not supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U144	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! On - 2, against - 48, refraining from - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U145	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Legal Commission to align the rules on the calculation of time limits. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U146	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 47, for - 2 and for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U147	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. Partially supported, included in proposal 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U148	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 4, for - 40, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U149	17. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U150	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 1, for - 49, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U151	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission is supported, but it is editorially clarified in the Commission's proposal, which is 19. I also call for this proposal to be supported on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U152	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 45, against - 3, abstaining - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U153	19. - The legal commission's proposal, which lays down the order... states that in future the defence will have the right to indicate the persons invited to the court. At the same time, it is established that without calling a person previously interrogated to court, whose statements are included in the list of evidence to be used, the defence agrees that the parties to the case will be able to use the information recorded in the testimony in the debate and in court rulings to justify their conclusions. This will shorten the length of the proceedings. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U154	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 51, against - non-, refraining - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U155	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U156	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 0 to - 48, refrain - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U157	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. 24 have been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U158	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 48, for - 2 and for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U159	22. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. 24 have been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U160	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 47, for - no, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U161	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. 24 have been supported and included. - the proposal drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U162	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 49, for - no, for - 6. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U163	24. - The legal commission's proposal. It provides for the procedure for the selection of evidence to be examined before a court or tribunal and for the taking of evidence. The procedure for examining the evidence is also amended, providing that the court initiates the examination of the evidence by allowing the accused, his defender, victim and his representative to ask questions to the persons who were invited by the court; then the prosecutor would ask questions. The proposal is supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 53, against - non-, refraining - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U165	25. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. This provides for the exclusion of Article 502, given that the procedure for bringing questions before a court... that it was set out in a proposal that had already been approved. The proposal is supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U166	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, John Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 50, for - no, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U167	26. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission for Legal Affairs is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U168	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, John Bordan! Please, let's vote! For -2, for -45, for -4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U169	27. - The legal commission's proposal. It provides to supplement Section 506 of the Law and to provide that participants of court debates will also be able to motivate their conclusions with the information recorded in the evidence previously provided in criminal proceedings, if the defence has agreed to use these information. In the future, the parties will also be able to motivate their conclusions with evidence previously provided by the person in the court hearing in the specific criminal proceedings. This proposal is supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U170	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! About - 51, against - non-, refraining - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U171	28. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. The Commission for Legal Affairs is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U172	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! On - 7, against - 43, refraining from - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U173	29. - The legal commission's proposal. It complements the procedure governing the validity of a court judgment - in addition, it provides that a court judgment may be based on the information recorded in the evidence previously given in the criminal proceedings in question, if the defence has agreed to this certificate (the sound breach.) ... the persons requested to be invited... and questions were asked by the parties to the proceedings... evidence previously given in the criminal proceedings in question. Those arrangements will ensure that in future the examination of witnesses before a court or the reading of their evidence will not be a prerequisite for the use of such evidence in the course of or in support of the judgment. Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U174	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - The Legal Commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 52, for - no, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U175	And finally 30. - Mr Zakatistova's proposal. The Commission for Legal Affairs is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U176	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - The proposal tabled by Member Ata Zakatistova! Please, let's vote! On - 8, against -54, refraining from -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U177	Colleagues, we have examined all the proposals that have been tabled. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U178	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! For - 50, for - 11, for - 4. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U179	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for the deadline for the submission of proposals to be set at two weeks, that is, 15 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U180	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 October this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Aivars Geidan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U181	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission we worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”” (No. 389 Lp13). 24 proposals were received to the third reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which is technical and provides for clarification of the statutory reference to the population accounting system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U182	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U183	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which is editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U184	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U185	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It provides for the wording of Article 4 of the draft law to be worded as follows: ‘The period of storage of the documents annexed to the registration file shall be determined in accordance with the laws and regulations in the field of archive management’. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U186	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U187	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, to determine what information about a natural person will be processed so that the individual can be identified and the data controller will not violate the state... the data protection law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U188	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U189	5. - a proposal from the Legal Commission setting out the criteria for journalists to have access to non-public information from the Register of Enterprises. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U190	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U191	Colleagues! That's what... Can I hear you? There's some tension there in the Chamber. Looks like... You think maybe there will be no quorum... Or what? In order to reduce their tension, I will turn to the rapporteur now. Mr. Geodans, you next time you address the Speaker of the Saeima, say not a "highly honored" but a "very respectable" because it is only the gentleman who speaks! Mrs. Moorier...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U192	Mrs. Liepaja, please... to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U193	Yeah... ‘extremely respected’. Yeah... Mrs Mourniece said that let us be right. If Mr. Geidan reports, let him report the grammar language in Latvian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U194	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U195	Colleagues! I'm calling... I will ask not to support all the rules relating to the right of journalists to have access to an unpublished part of the Register of Enterprises because, when the Commission discussed these amendments, I did not have the confidence that we have the opportunity to determine the purposes for which the journalist will cover this information. In addition, the very concept of journalist is, by nature, rather difficult to determine, because, for example, compared to sworn lawyers... It is quite clear about them: a person has passed an examination, so he has the relevant position and qualification. On the other hand, here... There could be problems - identifying who is a journalist who is not a journalist. Yes, of course, some criteria have been introduced over time in the work on this draft law and on the proposals - that the journalist has to prove that this is a research work. But we know with you what kind of research journalism is like. Perhaps these works are not always in the public interest. Maybe... This is what we are trying to do, and unfortunately it is in the interests of a particular group to fight against each other with the help of journalists. Unfortunately, that is the case. We cannot get rid of this right now. Therefore, given that, at this point in time, we have the quality of it as it is, I will refrain from supporting all this regulation with regard to the article of journalists in the Register of Enterprises, especially given that the damage that may be caused by the access of individuals to a non-public part and then by publication of perhaps various things that should not be published, from which, for example, minors or individuals who are not ultimately involved in some of the issues to be investigated, let us say... In the present case, no further injury can be attributed to the injury suffered by the Union industry. It will have already arisen, and then... then it would be... and maybe the journalist will be punished. We're already... It is very important for us to protect human privacy. And in this case, I think that its right to privacy may in some way be violated. This is a very fragile border, and these proposals, this regulation, in my opinion, goes beyond this border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U196	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U197	Hello, colleagues! I would like to briefly support the amendments that allow journalists to work with documents in the Register of Enterprises. All in all... Also - as a former journalist who spent some of his career directly in the Register of Enterprises, discovering and investigating... and concluding important things for Latvian society. These amendments are due to the transition of the Register of Enterprises to a system where much is available and disclosed, but while protecting the privacy of individuals, certain data will not be disclosed. The Ministry of Justice has worked closely with the Association of Latvian Journalists to make sure that, without a special request, only those journalists who really do research and use it for very specific purposes will be able to get access to documents. In turn, as in the past, all others will be able to request the limited access documents they need, say, for research or other work needs. I believe that this has been a good example of how public authorities can cooperate with non-governmental partners in order to achieve a solution that does not impose any additional burdens, because journalists could also obtain this information by requesting it every time under the Transparency Act, but it would be slow for journalists and the public... and also unnecessary burdens on bureaucracy. I therefore call for support for this and other - related - proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U198	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U199	Dear colleagues, I really ask those who took part in the Legal Commission's discussions on this law to explain really what the difference is in the nature of the second version, which, in fact, quite a large number of journalists have the right to turn to the Company Register with a reasoned request for independent access (and so on) and this third-reading amendment, which now appears. As far as I understand, the main difference is that if it is necessary for research journalism. What then determines which journalist is a research journalist or not a research journalist? And doesn't it really make sense, well, some two... Well, two different types of journalists - some ordinary journalists and research journalists? I hope I misunderstood this. But if I really understood that, then... I think that would not be right, colleagues: yes... Either someone, like a doctor... The doctor is a doctor, a journalist and a journalist. Not that we are now starting to divide and give some kind of privileges to some species or groups... That, in my opinion, would not be right. I very much hope that I am wrong now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U200	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U201	There's nothing to explain. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-10-01-PT13-2116-U202	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The legal commission's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 64, for - 2 and for - 4. The proposal is supported. Dear colleagues, Members Pāvlīts, Pliess, Skride, Voika and Iksten ask for a break before 9 a.m. on 8 October this year. Please open a section on the procedure. We will be voting for a break. Can we vote for the procedure? Please call me! We will vote for a break before 9 a.m. on October 8th, this year! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. So the decision has been made. Dear colleagues, Members Zarins, Klementjevs, Rubiks, Kabanovs and Cilevičs have submitted a question that has been submitted as a matter of urgency – “On the development of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers required by the Law on the Market in Electricity and their compliance with the requirements of the Law regarding the revocation of the authorisation for compulsory procurement of electricity and recovery of aid”. We put this question to the Minister for Economic Affairs - to answer. Registration of Members' presence. It was a success. Thank you, colleagues, for your work today. Interruption until 9 a.m. on 8 October this year. ( Interruption)
