ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U1	Dear colleagues, Let us begin by looking at the agenda for the remote session of the extraordinary session on 9 July 2020. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Freeport of Ventspils Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the National Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Freeport of Ventspils Law” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 72, against and refrain from –. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Associated Member State of the European Space Agency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “On the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the associated Member State of the European Space Agency” to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 76, against and abstaining from –. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 76, against and abstaining from –. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Ģerbonis Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Ģerbonis”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There is no – 77, not and refrain. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Law of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour ( Dep. V. Agešina’s synopsis.) ... Yeah, I'm sorry. So, Mr Agešin, you will speak against. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U2	Dear colleagues, On June 30, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on the Law on the Bar Association”. And these amendments deal with issues that are essential for the regulation of the profession. There is no doubt that they need to be addressed and that some of the solutions proposed are justified. At the same time, while carefully analysing and reading this draft law, doubts arise about the provisions of the draft law... in the case of sworn lawyers whose activities have been suspended. I am referring to the proposed addition of Section 16.1 (3) and Article 24.2 and Article 38.2 of the Law on the Law of the Republic of Latvia on the Draft Law. I have to say, the draft law introduces a completely new regulation for sworn advocates whose activities have been suspended for a period of time, while the lawyer is a direct or secondary public administration institution, derived public persons, other state institutions or state, municipal capital company, service... and, in particular, it is intended to supplement Article 16.1 with the third paragraph by the following wording: ‘A sworn lawyer whose activities have been suspended for more than five years before the renewal of the activity shall undergo an examination of the sworn lawyer...’; to supplement the law with Article 24.2 by the following wording: ‘Sworn lawyers... may participate in the general meeting of sworn lawyers without the right to vote.’ and to add a third section to Article 38.2 in the form that in fact ‘sworn lawyers whose... activity has been suspended or suspended’........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ they are not and will not “be entitled to operate in the institutions of the Latvian Committee of Sworn Advocates”. Well, here you have to say to all those who do not know, perhaps to be reminded, and it should be noted that a lawyer who has been suspended is, in fact, a full member of an independent professional corporation – the Latvian Committee of Sworn Advocates. Similarly, a sworn lawyer, whose activity has been suspended, remains obliged to make payments for the full maintenance of the Latvian Committee of Sworn Advocates, in the same amount as the practitioners do. The lawyer shall be called to disciplinary responsibility for violations, as well as all other duties of the lawyer laid down in the Law of the Republic of Latvia on the Bar Association, the Statute of the Latvian Committee of Sworn Advocates and other regulatory enactments shall be binding on the lawyer. Moreover, it should be stressed that the suspension of the activities of a sworn lawyer must be clearly and clearly distinguished from the suspension of the duties of a sworn lawyer. In addition, when I analyse the draft law presented, I also see serious risks of conspiracy. And this is about the scope of Article 106 of the Satversme. I would like to say that, in essence, this regulation provides for the obligation of sworn lawyers who have been suspended for more than five years to re-examine the number of sworn lawyers and for a ban on voting at the meeting of jurists while the act is suspended... General meeting and participation in the activities of other bodies of the Committee of Sworn Advocates. It therefore constitutes, in substance, a prohibition on the participation in the exercise of the autonomous functions of a professional corporation. In other words, the draft law in this part provides for a restriction on the renewal of the activities of sworn lawyers in the future, as well as participation in the resolution of issues relevant to this activity and in the exercise of their functions. Consequently, the draft law imposes restrictions on the activities of sworn lawyers as a professional activity or occupation. I will remind you that the first sentence of Article 106 of the Satversme states: “Everyone has the right to choose freely according to their abilities and qualifications.” Moreover, the right to freely choose an occupation includes the right to maintain an existing occupation in the future. Several judgements of the Constitutional Court may look at this. I therefore call for this draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U3	Thank you, thank you. Thus, the Member has spoken against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the Law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For – 60, against – 18, abstained – 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Land Deeps” be submitted to the National Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Deep Ones of the Land”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Cielēns.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U4	Hello, colleagues! At the meeting of 30 June, we worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”. The draft law aims to ensure effective and timely transposition of the Directive's requirements for extended producer responsibility systems. One proposal was received at the third reading. 1. – the proposal for the entry into force of the law by Juris Pūce, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Act shall enter into force on 1 August 2020. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 76, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U6	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U7	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! For – 84, against – no, abstain – 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act”, third reading. Daniels Pavluts, Member of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U8	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues and colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Packaging” (No. 641/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to ensure that Directive... of the European Parliament and of the Council on packaging and packaging waste, taking over requirements, prioritising waste prevention, including re-use and recycling in accordance with the waste management hierarchy. The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Two proposals were received to the third reading. Both concern transitional provisions. 1. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It is envisaged to replace the figures and the words ‘until 1 July 2020’ in paragraph 13 of the transitional provisions of Article 17 of the draft law with the words ‘on 1 October 2020’, thereby extending the period of issue of the Cabinet of Ministers’ regulations. Supported by the commission responsible. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – So the proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U10	2. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It is envisaged to supplement the reference of the draft law to the entry into force of the law in the following wording: ‘The law shall enter into force on 1 August 2020.’ The proposal was supported by the committee responsible. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 79, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U12	The commission responsible has decided to direct the examination of draft laws at the third, final, reading session of the Saeima. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final reading, by voting in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U13	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Packaging Act" in the third, final, final, reading! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte. ( Pause) Mrs. Course, we don't see you and we can't hear you. ( Pause) Mrs. Course, we don't see you and we can't hear you right now. ( Pause) So on the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”. Daniels Pavluts, Member of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U14	Yes, we agreed yesterday in the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy that I could report on this draft law in the event of a possible disturbance of communication. I therefore report that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” has been prepared for examination by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission (No. 680/Lp13). The draft law is necessary in order to take over the requirements of three directives in the area of waste management. The draft law clarifies the requirements for the application of financial security to the waste manager. A financial security is also foreseen for the waste dealer and waste intermediaries. The draft law provides that municipalities in the waste management region draw up a regional waste management plan. The inventory system for shipments of waste is expected to include also the inventory of waste delivered to and exported to waste disposal sites. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. 12 proposals have been received for the third reading of the draft law. 1. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It is planned to supplement the first paragraph of Section 14 of the Law, which regulates the control of the activities of waste managers by the State Environmental Service, as well as the activities of the businessman who produces waste in accordance with the regulatory enactments in the field of waste management and the relevant permit, with the second sentence, which establishes: “If there is a reasonable suspicion of violations of the requirements of regulatory enactments of waste management, violations of waste management permits or permit conditions for the pursuit of polluting activities, as well as in cases where the responsible officials of the businessman have been involved in the actions of violations of regulatory enactments of environmental protection, the State Environmental Service shall have the right to carry out control of waste flow using technical means.” The proposal was endorsed by the committee responsible. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U16	2. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It is planned to clarify the first paragraph of Section 16 of the Law in the following wording: “( 1) The original producer or holder of municipal waste shall participate in municipal waste management, including shared collection of municipal waste, subject to compliance with the laws and regulations on waste management (also binding regulations issued by the municipality) and conclude an agreement on the collection and transportation of municipal waste with the waste manager, who has concluded an appropriate agreement with the municipality in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 18 of this Law.” This proposal has been partly supported by the Commission and included 3. – the Commission proposal. I would like to call for a vote with no or no votes.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce! Please, let's vote! On – 7, against – 47, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U18	3. – a proposal from the committee responsible. It is planned to express the first paragraph of Section 16 of the Law in a new version: “( 1) The original producer or holder of municipal waste shall participate in municipal waste management, including shared collection of municipal waste, subject to compliance with the laws and regulations on waste management (also binding regulations issued by the municipality) and conclude an agreement on the collection and transportation of municipal waste with the waste manager, who has concluded an appropriate agreement with the municipality in accordance with Article 18 of this Law.” So this version is the one that replaces Jurs Pouce's proposal. The proposal has been endorsed by the committee responsible. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – the proposal of the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 73, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U20	4. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. According to Article 16 of the law, paragraph 1.1 shall be supplemented: “( 11) The original producer, holder or former owner of municipal waste shall bear all the costs associated with the management of municipal waste produced by him, including the hazardous waste generated by him, including the necessary infrastructure and its operation.” The proposal has been endorsed by the committee responsible. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U21	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce! Please, let's vote! For – 75, against – no, abstain – 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U22	Five more. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It is planned to exclude Article 14 of the draft law, to express in a new version the first and second paragraphs of Section 17.1 of the Law, which determine the activities of the operator of a waste recycling or recovery facility after receiving domestic, production or hazardous waste for recycling or recovery, as well as the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers on the issue. The proposal has been endorsed by the committee responsible. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 79, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U24	Six more. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Article 17 of the law provides for the deletion of point 4 of the first paragraph, which provides that the original producer or manager of hazardous waste or waste from production shall bear the cost of managing the hazardous waste or waste from production. The proposal was endorsed by the committee responsible. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U26	Also seven. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Additions to Article 17... Article 17, paragraph 1.1, replacing the previously deleted version of the previous proposal and stating: “( 11) The original producer, holder or former holder of hazardous waste or waste production shall bear all the costs of managing the hazardous waste or waste production, including the necessary infrastructure and its operation.” The proposal is supported by the Commission. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 76, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U28	Colleagues, you will probably not be surprised, including 8. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Provision is made for a new wording of Section 22.1.2 of the Law in order to clarify that this provision applies to municipal waste. The proposal was supported by the Commission. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 75, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U30	Colleagues, we have reached the transitional rules. 9. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Point 47 of the transitional provisions is new to read as follows: ‘... the financial security shall be submitted to the State Environment Service by 31 March 2021 by a waste dealer or by a waste management intermediary registered with the State Environment Service until 30 December 2020.’ The proposal has been endorsed by the committee responsible. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There is no – 77, not and refrain. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U32	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It is envisaged to replace the figures and the words ‘1 July 2020’ in point 50(1) of the transitional provisions with the words ‘1 October 2020’. The proposal was endorsed by the committee responsible. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U33	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 79, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U34	11. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It is envisaged to replace the figures and the words ‘1 October 2020’ in point 50(2) of the transitional provisions with the words ‘30 December 2020’. The proposal was supported by the Commission. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 78, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U36	And finally 12. – also the proposal of Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It is envisaged to supplement the draft law with an indication of the entry into force of the law: ‘The law shall enter into force on 1 August 2020.’ The proposal was endorsed by the committee responsible. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U37	(I can't hear.) ... about 12. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The proposal is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U38	Thank you, colleagues, for working on this bill. We have examined all the proposals. So I ask you to vote and support the draft law at third, final, reading. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U39	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Waste Management Act" in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 83, against and refrain from -. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U40	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Welcome, sitting viewers and listeners! Today at third reading we see the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” reviewed by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission (No. 667/Lp13), which can be seen in conjunction with the draft law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, and provides for the possibility for credit institutions to unilaterally extinguish debts for mortgage loans taken before the 2008 economic crisis. The amendments lay down the basic principles, the procedure and regulate the various details of this process. For the third reading, five proposals were submitted in the draft law “On Personal Income Tax”. 1. - Member Stein's proposal. Provision shall be made for changes to paragraph 27 of Section 9 first paragraph of the Law, by providing that the amount of money not subject to personal income tax has been increased from a thousand euros to two thousand euros for assistance in cash provided from public benefit organization funds to a person suffering from persistent illness for more than three months or a person with disabilities or a family member of such persons. In the Commission, the proposal is supported and included 2. – the Commission proposal. I also call on the Saeima to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U41	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U42	Hello! Thus, this amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax provides for more tax relief for those who need support from donors to cover their medical costs. The objective of the proposal is to help families of seriously ill children and persons who are affected by diseases and who are supported by public benefit societies and foundations with donations. The proposal provides for an increase in the amount of money not subject to personal income tax from a thousand to two thousand euros in cases where support is provided in cash to cover medical expenses for persons and is provided directly by public benefit organisations from their donations. The proposal determines the number of eligible persons. These are persons suffering from chronic illness for more than three months, persons with disabilities, family members of such persons. The amendments address the absurd situation in which patients with oncology or their families have to pay personal income tax with the support of donations of more than a thousand euros per year currently set. That is not right. This framework applies only to public benefit organisations that make donations and assistance. The draft law also provides for the entry into force of the amendments on 1 January 2021. The proposals were made in cooperation with the non-governmental sector, the Ministry of Health and Finance, and I would like to thank you very much for your cooperation. I call on the Saeima to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U43	I closed the debate. So on behalf of the Commission, the rapporteur has already reported. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Stein's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 75, against – 3, refrains – None. So the proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U44	2. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal. Associated with the previous and technical clarification of the norm. The proposal is supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U45	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 75, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U46	3. - Member Stein's proposal. The amendments to Article 9, first paragraph, point 27, of the Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. This point must be corrected by the number which the panel corrected in its next proposal. This proposal has been partly supported and included 4. – the Commission proposal. I call on you to vote against or to abstain on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Stein's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 5, against – 61, abstained – 12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U48	4. – a proposal from the committee responsible. Technical specification of the provision. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U49	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 79, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U50	5. – Legal Bureau proposal. It is envisaged to rule out the time of entry into force of the amending law. The proposal is supported. I call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U51	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U52	On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax" at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U53	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” in the third, final reading! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U54	Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions (No. 668/Lp13) is related to the previous draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” and provides for the redemption of mortgage loans taken before the 2008 economic crisis. 12 proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal by Member Gat Eglišs. It is planned to supplement the law by the fact that the right of the Republic of Latvia to discharge its credit obligations unilaterally in whole or in part is also granted to a branch of a credit institution established in another Member State. The proposal was partly supported and included in the Commission 11. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U55	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Eglitis's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 11, against – 52, abstained – 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U56	2. – Legal Bureau proposal. Technically. The Commission is supported. I call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – Proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau! Please, let's vote! There is no – 77, not and refrain. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U58	Also 3. – Legal Bureau proposal. Technical and editorial terminology. The Commission is supported. I call on the Saeima to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U59	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! 78, against – 1, refrains – not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U60	4. – Legal Bureau proposal. Also of a technical nature. The Commission is supported and included in 5. - Member Eglīks' proposal. I call on the Saeima to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U61	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 70, against – no, abstain – 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U62	5. - Member Eglīks' proposal. Changes to point 88 of the transitional provisions are foreseen. The Commission is supported. I call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U63	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Eglitis's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 75, against – 1, refrains – none. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U64	6. - The proposal by Member Gat Eglišs. Proposal of a technical nature for changes to the transitional provisions. Partly supported and included 7. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U65	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Eglīks' proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 9, against – 58, refrained – 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U66	7. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal. Provision shall be made for the expression of point 91 of the transitional provisions in a new version with clarifications. The proposal was supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 76, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U68	8 / 8 - The proposal by Member Gat Eglišs. Additions to point 93 of the transitional provisions are foreseen. Proposal of a technical and editorial nature. Is partially supported, included in 9. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Eglīks' proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 61, abstained – 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U70	9. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal. Additions to point 93 of the transitional provisions are foreseen. Proposal of a technical and editorial nature. Supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U72	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – Legal Bureau proposal. Supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U73	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 76, against – no, abstain – 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U74	11. – a proposal from the committee responsible. Additions to point 97 of the transitional provisions are foreseen. Proposal of a technical and editorial nature. Supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. – Budget and financial (tax) commission proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 76, against – no, abstain – 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U76	12. – Legal Bureau proposal. Default to disable the rule... on the entry into force of the amending law. The Commission supports this proposal. I call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U78	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I thank all those involved in drafting the law. And I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U79	Please call me! We will vote for the third, final, reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Interest”, third reading. Member Rihards Kols on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U80	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission looked at the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance” at the third reading. No proposals were received from the Commission for the third reading. Consequently, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on Members to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U81	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Goods of Strategic Importance” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 78, against and refrain from –. The law is passed. On the agenda – draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Time and Application Procedure of the Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Family Law of 1937”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U82	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Welcome, dear colleagues. We examine the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of the Family Rights Part of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Civil Law of 1937” (No. 735/Lp13). The purpose of the draft law is therefore to supplement the law with Article 27 by the following wording: ‘Article 27. From 1 September 2020 until the date of entry into force of amendments to the Civil Law and other laws and regulations on adoption of children abroad, foreign nationals who do not have a permanent residence permit in Latvia or persons residing abroad may not adopt the child, except for cases where 1) adoption proceedings are initiated, where information about the child to be adopted is provided; 2) the child of the other spouse is adopted; 3) the child is adopted by his relatives. The laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force at the time of initiation of adoption shall apply in the pending adoption proceedings.’ The Commission has been working on these issues for more than eight months. This draft law is also relevant to the next item on the agenda, which is the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child’. So a little bit about how it was made, why it was made, what happened, where there was a problem and what potential solutions could be, so that there would be no such problem anymore. So the idea is that from 1 September foreigners will be prohibited from adopting abroad until the entry into force of the “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”. As I said, it's the next law... Civil law and other legal acts on adoption of children abroad. The draft law provides that after 1 September foreign adoption will be allowed only in cases when the adoption process case has already been initiated, the second spouse's child will be adopted, as I have already mentioned, or his or her relatives will be adopted. In these cases, the provisions in force at the time of the adoption process will also apply. Go on. In principle, in March 2019 the State Audit Office, in cooperation with the Ombudsman’s Office, on the basis of the audit results, presented a report on the situation in extra-family care and the need to change it immediately. The opinion of the State Audit Office expressed serious concerns about the quality of the Latvian system for the protection of children's rights, as well as significant violations in the activities of orphan courts. Thus, the issue of adoption of children abroad came to the attention of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs after we received a letter from the Ombudsman about violations in real practice, violations found in the law, where the orphan's court, in order to find an opportunity to adopt the child abroad, took a decision on the termination of the child's stay in a foster family in Latvia and the placement in a childcare facility. The Ombudsman indicated to us in his letter that he had met with specialists of the Ministry of Welfare to discuss specific practices and received confirmation that the Ministry of Welfare has also identified such cases. Thus, the fact that the law has been violated has been established. And it has been done, probably consciously. In addition, the Ombudsman pointed out that the criteria on foreign adoption contained in the legal framework are still controversial and applied in practice depending on the understanding of the orphan’s employee about the best interests of the child. When it comes to statistics, I have to say very dry facts. Latvia is a leading leader in children’s adoption abroad, and this does not indicate a responsible state policy on this issue. Rather, it is evidence of irresponsibility. From 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019 children from 80 countries were adopted to the United States. Latvia among these countries in terms of the number of children transferred to foreign adoption, Latvia... we're in the 13th place. In this respect, we are also leaders among the Baltic countries. These data do not show that children from Latvia have only been adopted for the last two years... again, sorry. So in the last two years, children given to adoption, the only country that... where these adoption services have been provided, the United States of America. And the United States is also the only ones who have not adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Data on the adoption register show that 987 children were adopted in the United States over 16 years, 586 children in France and 319 children in Italy. I would like to remind you once again that the United States is the only country in the last two years. Children were not adopted to other countries. Next to the problems, then, is why such a draft law with the next draft law goes on today's agenda. The problem is that the risks identified by the current adoption regime show that we cannot at present be sure whether adoption abroad is in the best interest of these children. Likewise, we do not know what happens to these children later. Earlier in the Commission we discussed this issue of child adoption abroad and we concluded that we want more control over the return of Latvian citizens to life outside Latvia. And until these shortcomings are resolved, new adoption cases should not be initiated. Another important risk is the weak post-adoption monitoring process in Latvia. This is one of the shortest and weakest Member States of the European Union that have been involved in foreign adoption programmes with the United States during this period. Post-addition monitoring is currently limited to receiving a single message that does not always contain complete information. Or, given that foreign adoption in the United States is supervised, and this is a very important fact... Private adoption agencies and national organisations (such as orphanage courts) are not involved in this process. How weak post-adoption monitoring is in Latvia... how is it compatible with the development of children's family policies in Latvia? How is this compatible? At Commission meetings, we heard a wide range of views on this issue. The draft law also mentions what consultations have taken place when preparing this draft law and the next one, so that you do not have to repeat it again after that. So the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, working on the preparation of this draft law, has analysed the situation, as I have already mentioned, at several meetings of the Commission. And we have consulted the Association of Alternative Child Care Alliance organisations – the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Justice, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia, the Barents' Association and other organisations and institutions. This spectrum of persons was, in principle, very wide. Could you imagine more? I don't think so. But these consultations and these assessments... and risk options have also been assessed. Further on the risks that it is important to mention here, to this draft law. It is that we need to assess the re-adoption of children on the issue of foreign adoption precisely to the United States of America. So the baby is in the United States for one couple, and then he goes to another couple. This is something we can neither register nor record nor find out at all in Latvia. Only from the mouth could there be information. So the advantages currently enjoyed by foreign adoptors over Latvian adoptors, such as guest programmes, whose hidden goal is foreign adoption... Sometimes in a later period, the provision of assistance to adopted children abroad from Latvia is made difficult by the fact that the Citizenship Law provides for dual citizenship in cases of adoption, the courts, approving adoption of the child, do not preserve the citizenship of Latvia. And so help from Latvia is much more limited. And when I've been talking about the whole lot of these problems, putting this problem in place, then the solution that the Commission is proposing... And also the supreme decision-making power comes in terms of what should be done... then, on what should be done to prevent and improve this situation, we have... In order to implement the UN recommendations regarding the assessment of children's interests in Latvia, regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are to be developed, which includes the procedure for assessing best interests of the child. In fact, it is about setting up a new institution. It would be under the auspices of the Cabinet of Ministers and would involve all children's rights institutions, including representatives of orphan courts. It would have the mandate to assess the best interests of children and to take or not take a decision on international adoption. That is, its institution would have such a strong mandate that in the court dealing with a particular child, that institution would in principle... This mandate... that you can't... it is no longer advisory... it is not an advisory body, but an institution with a mandate – it says it is - and this institution involves absolutely all sides. It is therefore necessary to make all necessary preparations for the reform of the orphan courts. I stress once again the reform of the orphan courts. In order to ensure that new municipal child protection services with qualified staff and high-quality law protection procedures are operational after the municipal elections and administrative territorial reforms in place of orphan courts. On behalf of the Commission, everything I wanted to say about this bill. I would like to remind you, honourable colleagues, that the support of this draft law is... I would also ask you very much to take a separate look at the next agenda item 14... i.e., see separately, but think together with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U83	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U84	Hello, honourable Members! The head of the Commission Artus Kaimiņš has already marked many of these issues historically, but I will come back to 2018, when the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers were amended. 111 “Adoption procedure”, which prohibited the transfer of children from foster families to foreign adoption. It was a very good start and, in fact, over the last two years, we have a... institutions have reduced the number of children by 42 percent due to the things started at the time... things started during the previous government. It was very hopeful, and what will happen now could also be a continuation or a successor to the work undertaken by the previous government. The inclusion of foreign adoption on the agenda of the parliamentary committee of this parliamentary term, in response to concerns expressed by the Ombudsman about cases where certain orphan courts form schemes to circumvent the ban on foreign adoption, has shown that it is time for us to decide on an even stricter ban on foreign adoption. Laila Gravere, Head of the Children's Rights Division of the Ombudsman's Office, indicated that it is not permissible that regulation is something that can be circumvented. Therefore, according to the Ombudsman, the legislator must make a distinction – whether adoption to a foreign country is supported. While agreeing with the Ombudsman's position that Latvia should take a state-owned decision on the ban on foreign adoption, the Commission established this draft law, which we must vote on today. Foreign adoption is a political decision of each country. As co-legislator, we must demonstrate and take action to ensure that every citizen of the country in Latvia feels dependent, safe and valuable, including children left without parental care. The reality is currently mixed, and with regard to foreign adoption in Latvia, I think these myths are covered... has overshadowed today's policy, not the policy of a state that is a member of the European Union and of the OECD. Article 21 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child provides that adoption in another country may be considered as an alternative form of childcare where it is not possible for the child to be passed on to the parent or to domestic adoption or to provide other appropriate care in the country of origin of the child. Thus, the main and historical role of foreign adoption – an emergency protection measure for a child for whom it is not possible to create suitable alternatives in the country of origin. Consequently, foreign adoption is considered as a last resort since the State is unable to provide a child-friendly care solution within its jurisdiction. Several non-governmental organisations, mentioned also by Artuss Kaimiņš – such as “Latvian SOS – Children’s Village Association”, “Zvannieki’s Home”, “Azote”, “Alianse Latvija without orphans”, “Terēze”, “Social Support and Education Foundation”, “Attraction” – have confirmed in letters to Members that there are enough human and social capital and resources in Latvia to find suitable solutions for the quality of childcare in the country. We don't... We have no reason not to believe people who have taken care of these children on a daily basis. What we should pay particular attention to before the vote is these NGOs, as well as social care... Ilze Dzene, the head of “Riga”, has the reasoned myth of statistics, which is related to foreign adoption, which unfortunately is promoted in the media by both the Ministry of Welfare and other organizations interested in foreign adoption. Here I will list some of our letters... But I hope that we, most of us, have read them. I have no reason not to believe these arguments. Myth that children are adopted abroad with severe functional impairment. In total, one child has been adopted from branches of state social care centres “ Teika”, “Pļavnieki”, “Riga”, “Kalkūni”, “Liepāja” to foreign countries in the last three years. Adoption... There are approximately 90 children available for adoption. Almost all children left without parental care and children with severe functional impairment can be found for a long time in foreign adoption registers – even for 13 years. Conclusion: Foreign agencies do not have any interest in children with severe functional impairments and their family admission. The myth is that the host families in Latvia are not enough... The Latvian host families lack or have no interest in children with severe functional disorders. It is indeed a myth, because specifically 11 children with severe functional impairments have been adopted from the branch “Riga” within two years under guardianship, foster families, specialised foster families. It should be noted that these 11 children have been in foreign adoption registers for a long time. The myth is that children with severe functional impairment go to foreign guest programs. And here, dear friends, it seems to me that it is important for us to hear what the manager of the social care centre “Riga”. Summer 2019... During the summer, Daina Rose, a representative of the guest program agency visited the branch “Riga”. Cynthia Gotharde, a representative of the U.S. guest agency. In order to promote children’s opportunity to experience family relationships, we planned to attract foreign guest programmes. There was no result because representative Roze replied electronically that US guest families have no interest in children with severe functional disorders, while Gothard has not responded to this day. The myth that a child can be passed abroad in adoption that a child... that it will be for a child like the United States to have a family for his whole life. Well, as we also heard from Artus Kaimiņš, that is unfortunately not the case. Because there are cases where these children are transferred to predition, and sometimes... sometimes they are also four times. There are concerns about this type of re-adoption, as it is uncontrolled and does not involve the state, state institutions representing the interests of children. It is not known whether the child has reached the family in such a process of adoption, which in Latvian terms meets and endures the criteria of the receiving family. It could be qualifications, psychological research, personal criminality check, residence check, financial aspects, family checks and other... and other opinions. Well, my comment would have been that the examples mentioned in the letter have been confirmed, but the lobbyists of foreign adoption are happy to keep silent about it because, without the mission's awareness of what they definitely have when they work in this work, they do work... they are also financially interested. The myth is that a foreign adoptor is rich and will be fully able to meet the needs of the child – therapy, manipulation, education. Most often foreign adopters to adopt a child from Latvia collect donations for several years in order to pay agencies the expenses related to adoption up to $50,000. And here I have to say one more note that in these agency websites you can find descriptions of Latvia... about Latvian children. In particular, children's good health and exaggerating... exaggeration... that the indications by which they are given adoption are exaggerated. So it's our concern that doctors sometimes write something that they don't have – it's justified, but in these website of adoption they're told as great... That's a good thing. The Agency's websites also say that our children are well cared for, because the places where they are up until then (whether families or agencies, forgiveness, orphanage) are those that care about them. So good stuff. The myth is that all children in the United States are adopted and live in families. Well, here, Ilze Dzene says that there are about 71 000 children in the United States to be adopted, while about 69 children are in the care of the outside family, living in institutions, groups and youth homes. In addition, the US transfers its children to foreign adoptions. In 2019, 56 children were transferred to the United States in foreign adoption. In small Latvia a little less. So it's about the facts. Latvia is the world leader with the number of children transferred in foreign adoption. Also on the question that Latvia formally follows its developments abroad after the adoption fact has been confirmed. Another rather sad fact. The fact that a foreign guest program... on the website of adoption agencies and Facebook there is information about the children of Latvia ( children's photos, view... description, often health description) for every U.S. citizen. There is no such information for Latvia's host families. And at the end of the letter Ilze Dene expresses concern that Latvian society is misled with false information that children who are seriously ill are and will be denied the possibility of being adopted abroad. I think that we have the opportunity to work hard within the framework of the draft law to prevent this from happening, and if we aim at promoting the country's successful child and family policy on the admission of children to families, as well as the necessary support for families, the number of children in institutions will decrease even further. We have the opportunity, as Members, to work on this in our commissions. The failure of the state to care for its citizens is artificially promoted by misleading the public and by providing false information. I would even use such an idea that it undermines citizens' faith in their country. If we undermine citizens' faith in our country, then in this way we reduce the security of Latvia's country. And that is a very serious question. In the light of the arguments put forward in the letters, I would like to point out that an alternative to foreign adoption, finding a solution in the best interests of the child at national level, will require the efforts and work of all the institutions and organisations involved. But our joint vote will demonstrate state moral maturity, the ability to take responsibility for our children. It will not be populist. It will be difficult, but it will be right. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U85	Thank you, colleagues. The debate will continue after the break. Members Golubeva, Bondar, Bauman, Stein and Agešin ask for a break by 2 p.m. So we should vote for it. Please activate the procedure section! Let's vote for a break by 2 p.m. Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 83, against and refrain from -. Decision adopted. Interruption until 2 p.m. Name of the statement to the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission, Richard Kola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U86	Dear Members of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I informed you that after five minutes – at 13:27 a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission is convened, the link to a remote meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission has been sent to you by e-mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U87	Thank you. Members are still registered. It's done well. Interruption until 2 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U88	Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda – draft law “Amendment to Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Part of Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Civil Law of 1937”. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U89	Hello, colleagues! The child has the right to grow up in the family, but we, adults, have the obligation to ensure this right. Today, we have heard from the virtual platform and we will hear a lot of evidence that we are not overcoming this obligation. There are still children in Latvia who grow up in childcare facilities and not in families. There are still situations where children who have acquired a family are not safe, whether their family is here in Latvia or abroad. Reforms have already taken place in Latvia, which have helped many children to replace care facilities with families, but still work has not finished. The State Audit Office shall report problems, the Ombudsman shall report. Let's go, let's go, let's serious changes to the family courts, the State Children's Rights Inspectorate. More active action is needed to seek here, in Latvia, families who would be ready to adopt children. Families must be sought, educated, encouraged and supported even after they have become a new family for an adopted child. More action is needed to improve the system and to reduce the risks associated with adoption, whether these risks are family in Latvia or family abroad. We can extend the existing two-year post-adoption follow-up period for adoptors abroad to the age of the child. We can provide opportunities for Latvia to act if post-adoption reports reveal problematic situations, such as separated brothers and sisters during the course of the readoption. We can give priority to systemic reforms in Latvia. Knowing that there are significant differences in how Latvian and foreign adoptors can get acquainted with adopted children, we can improve this process specifically for adoptors of Latvia. The plans of the Cabinet of Ministers include reform of orphan courts in 2021 so that neither we nor the Ombudsman should doubt the quality of decisions of orphan courts and the ability to act in accordance with laws. An analytical work is being carried out to review the functions of institutions involved in the protection of children's rights. Function audits will be ready for the end of the year. These are absolutely necessary systemic reforms, but the systemic approach takes time. And while we adults are spending time implementing these reforms, children are growing up. There are many children who will spend their entire childhood in a care facility without waiting for these changes. Today, there are hundreds more in Latvia. I call on us today to think about the fate of the children currently in the 10 to 18-year-old age group. The draft law under discussion today will affect the fate of these children. According to data collected by the Ministry of Welfare in 2019, 3 children of this age managed to find families in Latvia, while 33 found families abroad. This moratorium removes the family dream for this very age group. This is the group that is less interested in adopting ready-made families in Latvia. The June 2020 adoption register contains information about 146 adoptors in Latvia, 3 of whom are ready to adopt children from 10 to 18 years of age. This is a group of children who will no longer expect any fruit from the systemic reforms that have been carried out today. They won't wait for us adults to do our job, perform our duties, they'll just grow up in a care facility, grow up as hostages to the systems and the proposed moratorium. Colleagues! Problems related to adoption both in Latvia and abroad need to be addressed! That is our duty! But with the help of the moratorium there are no new ready-to-adpt families in Latvia. The moratorium does not lead to any necessary reform of the work of child rights protection institutions. Unfortunately, the moratorium does not solve any of these problems. All that it does is clear up the hopes of more than ten children in the family. I call for the bill to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U90	Thank you. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U91	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The adoption register currently contains information about 141 children, who are located in a childcare centre and want to be adopted. Children, about whom Latvian adoptors have not shown any interest. Children who have been turned away from foster families and guardians. Children for whom the family court has decided to permit adoption abroad. As a result, 141 children are currently given the opportunity to get a family and to stop living in a childcare facility. The adoption of this amendment prevents a child in a childcare facility from entering the family. Undoubtedly – every child needs to find a chance to grow up in the family in Latvia. Today, however, there are 141 children who have not had the opportunity to grow up in the family or even in the family. The current regulations state that children can only be adopted abroad over the age of nine or if they are three or more children of the same family, or if the child is disabled or is seriously ill. This amendment is neither in the best interests of the child nor in the interests of international instruments, which provide that a child who is left without parental care should be provided primarily with care in a family environment. There is no childcare facility and there can be no family environment. According to statistics, children – teenagers – are most often adopted abroad. International as well as national documents state that the views of children must be clarified in all matters affecting the best interests of the child in accordance with the age and maturity of the child. This amendment ignores the child's views and wishes, as 141 children in a child's home have expressed their desire to be adopted, including abroad. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child considers that the placement of a child in an institution is a last chance and underlines in particular the inconsistency of these institutions in cases where the development of a young person requires the permanent presence of an adult caregiver. With this amendment, Latvia will emphasise that we believe that leaving the child in the institution and keeping the child in Latvia prevails over the interests of the child, the right to family and the right of the child to be heard. The survey shows that 80 percent of Latvian society supports adoption of a child abroad if the child in Latvia is unable to find a family or if he is a disabled and has severe health problems. The Ministry of Welfare has launched a reform of the orphanage courts, and the main emphasis of the reform of the orphanage courts is on preventive work so that we do not have to take children out of our families so that children do not enter their children's homes. There are also 16 support centres that provide advice, educate adoptives, guardians and foster families. But we cannot change the opinion of society in either month or year. In Latvia, however, adoptors most often choose to adopt healthy children up to six years of age. Happily, this age is increasing, and adoptors from three years have reached the age of six. I very much hope that this age will increase. But, of course, so that we get to the point where adoptors are ready to adopt teenagers with different problems, including addiction problems, until then, we still have a step forward. Let us not prevent children from living in the family with this amendment, let us not deprive children of the only opportunity to rewrite their lives! Please do not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U92	Thank you. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U93	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask a few questions to our colleagues who will vote on a moratorium on the adoption of children abroad. Is it a problem for children living in institutions that orphan courts have not been able to properly ensure that the adoption process complies with the rules of the law of the child? Is the fact that private agencies that provide adoption abroad and their clients sometimes have much more information about adoption available to Latvian children than potential adoptors of Latvia is a problem for these children? I don't think so. This is a problem for public administration and municipalities. It is our problem, but it is certainly not the problem of these children who are currently living in the system and have not yet met their young parents... potential parents. For those 10 years or more, as you have just heard from my colleague Vita Anda Steela, according to statistics of recent years, there is quite little chance of meeting these parents in Latvia. And to make teens living in the orphanage wait until the state arranges for the system, no matter how fast we hope to do it, is cruel. They only have one life. And if it happened that they have not been blessed in Latvia, but have some honest adoptor from abroad, we do not have the moral right to deny these teenagers the last hope and make them wait until we arrange the system. We can thus deny them their individual happiness. They are not state property. For me, this is a matter of principle and value. I am liberal and defend individual freedom. I call on you to vote against and not forbid any teenager from his dream of a better life outside the institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U94	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U95	Hello, colleagues! I had the opportunity to see and hear a discussion on this issue from the beginning of my work at the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission. I would like to remind you that we started talking about the problem by receiving a letter from the Ombudsman in which he pointed out... basically for charting. In other words, in order to ensure that children could be adopted, they were placed in orphanages, although there was no need for such adoption. Yeah, then he took it out of the foster families. That is one problem. We started the discussion, we also heard about other problems. I now hear and listen directly to the continuation of this discussion, where some adults are trying to convince other adults about how to better protect children's interests. But our problem lies in the fact that there are reasons to believe that our regulation is not really enough, that the interests of several children are at stake. And how can you solve the problem? Either by continuing the adoption abroad, knowing that there is a schematic process or, nevertheless, by stopping it until the system is set up. I realized that it was not possible to convince each other here, because everyone has numbers, each has arguments, and basically everyone simply expresses their opinion, not listens to what others say. But I would like to stress that this draft law is not about prohibiting or continuing adoption abroad. The question is whether to continue... keep the situation as it is, and look... address gradually problems, or stop the process until audit is carried out and other solutions are proposed. I think we will continue to discuss these issues in the Commission, but the draft law must nevertheless be supported so that we can discuss these issues in the Saeima, so that we can look for the best solutions and so that we can really better protect children from the problems that we have been talking about in committee sittings. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U96	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U97	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out some of the serious mistakes that have been made in this matter, in my view. The first major mistake is to look at this issue during this extraordinary session of the Saeima, Covid-19. Such serious, sensitive, emotional issues should not be considered at all. That's one. Why? Because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself... The management itself has also acknowledged that nothing can counterbalance the face-to-face discussion on important issues, and this type of discussion through the computer screen is only permissible in an emergency situation. People who have experienced diplomatic communication (I repeat that I am talking about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) are well aware of this. Therefore, in this case too, I think that this issue should have been postponed to a normal moment... until we had returned to normal. That's one. The other problem is... I, too, listened to this committee meeting, came to the conclusion that the head of the committee was not appropriate to deal with this situation. He's not suitable for that... The Head of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is not suitable to deal with this issue in a diplomatic, correct manner. The way in which different views were not heard, the way in which the word was not given to people who wanted to express their concerns or, for example, counter-arguments on different claims, is not acceptable. In my opinion, this is absolutely not allowed in the normal work of Parliament, and there are absolutely justified objections to the work of the chairman of the commission. Those colleagues who are really very interested in this draft law moving forward and in some way resolving this problem – then I would really very much like to call attention to how the commission manager works and to call on him to adjust his work so that he does not then have to come up with perhaps also with diplomatic representatives. Next, on the issue of the ban on adoption abroad. Yeah, I could say... In fact, it could be said that both sides are in some way right on certain issues. If we are talking about the fact that adoption abroad is much more difficult for teenagers, and perhaps someone also mentions children with special needs, although I understand that data differ. Here is one moment if we are talking about the United States. Those families that take children both in guest families and in adoption – they have quite different conditions from the reality of Latvia. If a family from the United States takes a child from Latvia for a summer period as a guest family, then, as far as I have come to know and read, I understand that its family receives tax reliefs for a very good, to a large extent both for air tickets and for all expenses that are verifiable and are attributable to the child's accommodation. Here we also see that the different treatment of the country contributes to this unequal situation, where we are unable to take care of our own children, and realises that this inability, which has been a long time since, I do not know, for 30 years since the restoration of independence, has resulted in other countries that are much better placed to take care of our children. And it's very, very, very bad. Therefore, while we have not built our own system in which we support adoptors, rather than simply sinking the child into adoptors, saying: “All! Your child – your problem. For where you have little benefit, and continue to pay according to your will.'" , until we change our attitude towards adoptors, to travel adoptors in honour, to travel the prestige of adoptors in Latvia, to develop support system for adoptors... We know we're just very small... first promisingly, when it comes to a small holiday, 10 days of leave, to adoptives regardless of the age of the child. This is the first step. I would very much like us to continue this work on a system of prestige and support for adoptors. Because the birth of a child is just as much to be supported by the state as the birth of a child. Just as much state must help and show a positive attitude towards adoptive families, just as state shows its positive attitude to every new family expecting a child. I really regret to conclude that I also do not really like the fact that this deadline for the submission of proposals... If you are planning a deadline for tabling proposals at a rather short time, then I would ask you, honourable colleagues, to set a deadline for submitting proposals at such a time that we can really discuss this issue again in a thorough manner for the second reading, when we discuss all the proposals, and so that it can happen as far as possible, so that we listen to both parties so that we have clarity about all the issues. For it to be accepted not only on the basis of emotional something, let us say, but for it to be a really rational issue. Of course, it is very important to ask not only Latvian citizens what they think about adoption abroad, but first of all to ask the children themselves, who are waiting for adoption in the register for a new family, what their opinion is. I think this is very important – what children want, what opportunities they see themselves. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U98	Thank you. The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U99	Hello, colleagues! I will invite you to vote against this bill and explain why. I myself will vote against at first reading, I will vote against at second reading also if it gets... and we can't convince us as a faction... and I personally will vote against my colleagues at third reading as well. Because we as the Saeima must wake up and forget this bill as a nightmare. This bill is easy to play with power, light to play with symbolism, light to play with serious things related to our foreign policy. If I had to describe this draft law with three features, then I would say that this draft law is cruel to children, this draft law is foreignly short-sighted and perhaps even silly. And this draft law includes a self-esteem – all the worse things we call in the legislation “deleting through”. That is why we should reject this draft law. First. Let's start with the question of cruelty. Let us remember that this bill – and the figures prove it! – concerns the lives of children. It's cruel because it takes away the last thing – hope – for a child without a family! Every child who now has the hope of getting a family, also abroad, will wake up every morning, look in the mirror and see that he has no hope for anything else. We need to understand that this draft law is precisely about prohibiting adoptions abroad. Mr. Judina mentioned that it is actually something else, maybe it is – to improve some internal processes. No, Mr. Judin, look at what the bill says. It's a ban, a moratorium for an unknown time, until you like to ban adoptions abroad. So the bill is cruel, because it is used as a tool, not to improve the life of a child, but to show each other how to deal with certain situations. This bill has become a tool to teach other politicians, and children are forgotten. Secondly. It is politically and externally very short-sighted. Because, as we know and understand, most of the foreign adoptions involve adoptions to the United States. And it's short-sighted to do this. Because if we remember historically: when the United States imposed the Magnitsk sanctions against Russia, Russia's response was to ban adoptions to the United States. Here we are in the same shoes. We are now de facto imposing sanctions against the United States. I think that's stupid. If we look at the foreign policy issue, it is often mentioned that this issue of adoption is a domestic issue, a Latvian question. Not at a time when this issue is being treated as a matter of human rights. If it is treated as a matter of human rights, the question of the child, then the borders disappear. In my opinion, the interests of the United States are not here, there are human rights issues here, and we will soon expect this issue to be raised to a very different level. Finally, the third sign of the draft law is an arbitrary one. And indeed in the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs this issue was dealt with selectively. The head of the Commission was rude and vulgar and did not allow anyone who had the opposite opinion to speak. This cannot be the case in democratic countries! What we see here is without discussions, without confirmation, a draft law that puts Latvia in a very strange foreign policy situation and that passes through the lives of children and deprives them of their last hope. What's your name? Here we are moving to such a section as the motifs. Who benefits? Here is an easy show of power. Someone can get out of the bill. Here is an easy play with symbols. Here is the Urra Patriotism. Whether we're kids, we're going to save the nation! And, finally, what we're seeing here is... Regrettably showing power. We, CPV LV, will vote 'no' at first reading, 'no' at second, 'no' at third reading. This is not an improved draft law. Colleagues, I turn to you with warmth and call – let's not get it deeper. It is good to stop digging when there is a pit at the bottom. If we want to get out of this pit, we just put this bill off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U100	Thank you. The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U101	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Listening to the discussion, too... as far as the debate on this bill is concerned, my conviction is clearly that we all want the best for our children, our Latvian children. The question is, how do we achieve this... and how quickly. It should be noted that these two draft laws, which are in front of us, provide for a temporary suspension of foreign adoption, i.e. temporary. While other draft laws are being organised. So we're talking about something that happens for a while. Then there are these two options. Or by recording certain irregularities... And none of us can deny this, because the Ombudsman addressed the Saeima with a report, pointing out that there are violations. So all of us in today's sitting are aware that violations of foreign adoption have been recorded. And what are we doing knowing that there are violations? Are we stopping, correcting, or not stopping, or correcting? Let's admit, without pressure from that time... apparently. I would like to compare this situation a little with one example, because we are talking about a rather hypocritical attitude if we know that there are irregularities and that, for example, there are some children who get into foreign adoption, and everything is fine. They are in really nice families, and they put their lives in order. Together with these children, there are some Latvian children who get into foreign adoption, and it is unsuccessful. And their lives are probably completely destroyed. The question for each of us is not a hypocritical attitude if, at the expense of some good, successful stories, we close our eyes to some victims whose lives are being destroyed? If we, for example, compare and imagine a situation where very serious violations of human care are recorded in a Latvian care institution (and such cases have been and have been widely heard in the media). What would we do if we know that these violations exist? Would we put other people in this care facility until the violations have been corrected? Wouldn't it be? What would we do if we know that there are violations? Or perhaps to prevent irregularities from the beginning and only then, knowing that the institution works and everything... all the process and care there takes place in good faith, would continue to place young people in this institution? Because if you touch these abuses a little bit... The colleagues said that, with regard to foreign adoption – and here, of course, we know that most children are now adopted to the United States – we could provide longer follow-up, post-adoption monitoring so that we could ensure supervision in the process of readoption if brothers and sisters are separated. But what are we talking about here? There is no possibility of overdose in Latvia. We don't let that happen! That's impossible! Moreover, in a private situation, where the country is not involved at all in this process and is not monitoring it at all. It is not a matter of monitoring the process of overdosing. Remember – in Latvia we do not allow it! Also, of course, are the divorce aspects of our brothers and sisters. So, I think, here we have room for everyone to ask if, in case we're not hypocritical at the expense of some children's fate, which we still face... And we do it as a legislator right now. Well, do we have a chance not to do that either. The emphasis was then placed on the small number of families willing to adopt teenagers. That's... and that is the fact. In the course of the debate, the Minister for Welfare said that, of course, the... A little, but also the age threshold in which families are ready to adopt Latvian children. I believe that this is indeed the case. But not because the state has done something for it, but only because we are matured as a society. We are matured and will continue to mature: it is a natural process. But we, as legislator and executive, in this case in the person of the Ministry of Welfare and the Minister himself, have, I think, to answer ourselves – what exactly has been done if something has been done to promote the adoption of teenagers in Latvia? You too, Mrs Petraviča, have this direct question that my colleagues have asked you many times: "What initiatives have you already taken to strengthen families?" Because families will also adopt teenagers, only they need support mechanisms. This can be done! Because our society is a responsible society. That's it! Support mechanisms are only needed. But what kind of support mechanisms have you come up with and offered that families really be prepared to support them a little? Thinking maybe also in response to what the colleague said, emphasising individual's freedom... It is a responsibility that matters to me, because perhaps sometimes this individual (if we are talking about teenagers) who are not yet fully mature, without being aware, can also put himself at risk. And we, as a state, still have to bear the responsibility. We also need to be able to see potential mistakes and perhaps to protect people against them in a preventive manner. So, in my opinion, "responsible" here is also a keyword. I would like to reject this issue once and for all on the appeal of foreign policy. I think fortunately, Latvia's foreign policy and Latvia's bilateral relations with other countries are not determined by how we take care of our children, because if someone forgets it, we are absolutely sovereign, independent and we decide ourselves how we take care of our children. Even if we now have to recognise that we are not doing this in a sufficient way, it is our responsibility, and that is certainly not what constitutes or primarily determines our relationship... bilateral relations with other countries. Speaking of the fact that this draft law could be suspended for an unknown time – now, here, I think it is very important to understand the context. The length of time this moratorium could be valid is also most dependent on the Ministry of Welfare – how timid and how intensively you are prepared to work on the adoption of the necessary amendments and to drive forward the necessary reforms. One of you has already mentioned the reform of the orphan courts. I would like to emphasise that Members of the Saeima are ready to work actively on this issue, the Ministry of Justice is ready to work very actively and to participate. It is only up to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Welfare to move forward on this reform and not just a moment. I think that all partners are ready to support you in this process and take decisions very quickly. Just don't bother you on your side! When voting on this draft law and on the next draft law, I call again on everyone to ask themselves whether, in case we do not close our eyes to the fate of some children again for the benefit of others. Or there will be no hypocritical attitude, because yet we are the legislator and we must be responsible at national level for all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U102	Thank you. The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U103	Hello, colleagues! I would like to talk about responsibility. And responsibility from two positions: one for morals and the other for systemic. I want to remind you that none of us choose a family, with physical defects, or with mental impairments, to come to this world. Someone is lucky, and unfortunately not so much. It is our duty to take care of those who are not lucky. It must be recognised that there are many shortcomings, that they need to be resolved, that they need to be talked about, but we must not ban the time when we are talking, thinking and looking at the best solutions, people have a better chance of living. If we are talking about the system, there are several types of institutions – state-funded, local government, and the state has also created a family institution – that would provide conditions that are closer to the family. If we are talking about the above data, then we must admit that “Riga” (where you have viewed... ) these children are most directly with physical defects and with mental disorders. It is not a simple job – to show and convince that these children would be worthy of care and love, because in the end, there is essentially only one question: how much it is necessary to pay for someone to love and care for someone. I think you can either love people or you don't. Therefore, I call on you to think not so much about yourself, your political interests or the potential benefits, but to think about your children, about their opportunities for an equal hope to live better and become a full citizen and a full part of the world. Please do not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U104	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U105	Hello, colleagues! I listened carefully to the debate on what would then be the arguments why this draft law should not be supported. Here I have to admit that the main argument reminds me of the debate on closing gaming halls, why shouldn't these gaming halls be closed? An identical, similar argument in the context of this bill would be – you see, the gaming halls should not be closed, because there will be someone who wins a million. It's okay that the rest of people – really a very large number of people – are losing money in these gaming halls and their millions... Maybe one wins. It is an identical argument about why this bill should not be supported, because, obviously, there will be someone who will really be lucky and everything will be fine. But no one wants to take care of them. I therefore call for common sense to come and support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U106	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U107	Hello, colleagues! I would like to talk about some of the speculations that have been made in today's debate. Ilze Dzene was mentioned, which is the... name. Information allegedly from Ilze Dzene was mentioned. I would like to emphasise that at the moment the State Social Care Centre “Riga”... Or there are 34 children in the Kapseļu Street orphanage, while 10 of them with severe functional disorders are there on the basis of applications from their parents. And the same Ilze Dze points out that families with children with serious health problems receive insufficient state support. The most important service – assistants – is missing. Educated assistants are direct family assistance, they also support the family emotionally and are able to harmonise it. Parents would, of course, be willing to take their sick children, who, unfortunately, are only meant to live because of their diagnosis... Now, very few years, however, parents want these children to be at home. However, this is not possible because – I repeat – and I also agree with Ilze Dzene – the aid from the State is not sufficient. It is not well known why this issue was a matter for our Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which does not know why for many years focused on the problems of the media and sometimes on problems that are relevant to specific political parties. I would like to emphasise once again the number that was mentioned today that as if only one child was adopted from the State Social Care Centre “Riga” in these years. I would remind you that this care centre is home to children with very specific diagnosis. That is why the information that came out corresponds only very, very partially to the truth. For example, 40 children with disabilities and various illnesses were adopted from Latvia within three years. They are mostly children over the age of 10, which has also been mentioned today. That is why my speech's path today is not to be speculated, for political reasons, by figures that are not statistical, I will say so, legitimately. Each one takes his own particle and speculates with it. Another mention was made of the number of NGOs taking part in the debate on this issue, but it was not mentioned whether all these NGOs were in favour of the Commission's proposals. I would like to quote Antonina Kravcuni, who is a member of the board of the association “Latvia without orphans” and who on 20 June this year immediately after the meeting of the committee recorded Facebook: “I have not been so angry for a long time... I have been raising children from orphanage for 10 years. The only wish for these children – for them to have a dad and a mom. Of course, it's good if they're your real parents, who come back to you, take them back from the orphanage. But unfortunately, it is rare in Latvia. Yesterday, our people's servants voted [the talk is specifically about the committee led by Mr. Kaimiņš] to make it impossible for orphans to find a family outside Latvia. I don't understand this decision... Today, 600 children are free and are waiting for their family. If you tell me that it is their destiny, I will answer – no, these are adults who make the lives of these children so gloomy. But there is also hope that they will reflect on the second vote on 2 July. I and my children will pray for this.” That is also another moment I would like to emphasise. Sometimes the question is asked – why is it in America that there is so much interest about children in Latvia? It is no secret that those people who want to adopt children from Latvia are believers in America. But let us ask ourselves, ‘ Are we really opposed to adopting our children into believing families? ’ Is there a problem? Why is it considered strange? And more. Vita Anda Steela has already spoken about this today. Yes, really those children are mostly over 10 years of age, I would even say – over 12 years of age... they don't even have anything to do with this. I think that the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs should have addressed the issue a long time ago in order to extend the status of orphans in Latvia: not to 18 years, but to 24 years. Because from 18 to 24 years of age these children, even after their foster families, remain absolutely... in absolute isolation. They are very often deceived both by the state and by other people, and these are the children that really need to be cared for. I think the Ombudsman would have to take care of these children only once without his recommendations – realistic, not on paper. And I think the organisation of human rights needs to make sure that those parents who want to be with their children, children who are seriously ill, who go to the care centre Riga... that these children should not be there, and that the state should not spend on some kind of project interesting what happens there when Mrs.Dene calls some “new mothers” and “dads” as she writes, but that their parents should be realistic so that their families can get so much support that these children would just be at home. And that's the problem number 1. And I think that it is this problem that should be dealt with by the Neighbourhood Commission, not by reading out of paper texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U108	The name to Member Eva Marty.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U109	On one occasion World War I killed a lot of Latvians, scattered in the world, and so many orphans, homeless and abandoned children remained in Latvia. That was thousands. The country at that moment... The new state commissioned the child’s doctor and professor Jacob Niemann to collect, identify, and arrange the lives of these children. James Niemann did this, and about 1937, this year we see in this law... above the name – he was proud to say: “I have raised seven thousand children to Latvia loyal, spiritually strong.” We are now living in a much better situation, much, many better than after World War I. And we give our children away with a light hand. Is a truly rich, better-positioned society more spiritually poor? Here, too, I see the inability and unwillingness of all the previous terms of reference to the lives of my own country, my own citizens. In this regard, I would like to tell you that zero, in May 2020, was defended by a master's work, which can be assessed unmistakably, but there are documented stories of children who have been adopted in the United States. In these stories there are three very important problems that simply do not have the right to give up our children in the world. The first is always the euphoria that the child suddenly has a family. It's fun. Then there is the language environment, the cultural environment that is being changed, which is hurting children very much, and they feel discomfort. The next one is insult to Latvia, and in all these conversations with children there appeared an extremely deep insult to the land, to their relatives, who have given them away somewhere. These are the reasons why it is absolutely clear that we do not have the right to give up our children. In the European Union, in fact, all small countries are protecting, protecting and cherishing their children, and in fact many of them do not even have children's homes. They are brought to their families right away. Families are trained, raised, accepted, what to do, and how to work with children who have not given up their best and most nice hands. But they have a chance. The opportunity to be in your own country, in your language environment, in your culture. And finally, I have to say that I really have the shame for those Members who have said today... and who support the extortion of their own country's children into the world. I do not want to experience shame also in the eyes of the world, which can regard our Latvia as a buying land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U110	The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U111	Thank you for your word. Thank you to all the previous debaters for this, you can say, the hot debate. What I have drawn up in this as a problem is that we, as adults, as Mr Zakatistov said, are unable to see one serious problem, that it is our country's legislation that answers to the safety of children that we cannot guarantee right now. If we're talking about hostages, it's clear that you can say, on the one hand, that... Mrs steel said there are 10 children who will be without families. But what can we say to those children who will have a family at the beginning, then they will not, then they will wander somewhere on the streets, as it happens now, without health care, without money, without anything, and we as a country cannot help them or provide anything. Some also try to contact their homeland, but it is not possible for them to come home because it is very expensive or even impossible. So, as Lindiņa said, we are actually a little hypocritical in this regard. We are ready to sacrifice some children against others who will be better off. In my opinion, this draft law is finally very responsible. This draft law provides that we will soon press the Ministry of Welfare and other ministries to improve this legislation so that these children are also safe so that all children are safe. That is what this story is about, and we all want it. That's first. Secondly. We are always talking about only two things – foreign or local adoption. But there are other forms of extrafamily care that provide a loving, good family. And it's a guardianship, it's a foster family. We are not talking about this at all. And the third thing I want to say. Why is this bill needed? Because it will give speed to the work that has not been done, the very many work that we always talk about in the form of probability – we have to do it, we have to do it, we have to come up with a report... But for a year and a half, nothing has happened. So there must be such a bill, a law that gives speed... which would give speed to all those activities and ensure safety to children who do not have this security simply because our legislation does not provide for it. That's why! But we all want their children to be good, I just believe in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U112	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U113	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Listening to these discussions gives rise to such a pretty funny mood... In fact, one part of the Members defends some of their own particular... maybe even business interests. I would, however, like to call on my fellow Members to think a little bit... national think about this issue. We are currently looking at amendments to the law on whether or not to allow adoption abroad. First. Children – they are also our citizens. If a few dozens, more or less, are brought to the upbringing of foster families abroad, then... The first question – will they come back at all? I don't think so. The second question is, are we an overcrowded country, an overcrowded territory? Neither. Do we not, in our view of the future, care about every person, every citizen, every citizen who lives here? Very much defends this idea by members of the parliamentary liberal wing. Well, they can be understood – globalisation and so on. But I am concerned because these liberal parties are now also defending the rights of sexual minorities and so on. I am concerned that perhaps several of the... Many of these children can also enter such families... Are we acceptable to society as a whole? I doubt that too. Next. The orphanage. Here will be this reform, which will transform the system of orphan courts. I would like to remind you (because I have worked a lot in municipalities and orphan courts have been active in all municipalities) that orphan courts are leading, first of all, from the laws that have been announced by the state and, second, from the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, from the regulations of the Ministry of Welfare and from the regulations of the municipalities. Their operation has its own known frame. When the structure is transformed, we are trying to change something, but more or less this legislative framework will not change. So their work too... It is unlikely that the loss of responsibility to the orphan's courts will succeed. I believe, however, that orphan courts are working hard in the legislative field for them. Another question is the result. And the result depends on the main reason, that is, on the means – on the money. If we're talking about our families... for those who are here in Latvia and want to adopt children, this is the answer: if there is proper support, there is money, there is money, there will be these families who will want to adopt children here in Latvia. Latvia, however, is rapidly approaching the European Union's average level of development, as indicated by the following criteria – 75 percent of GDP has already been achieved, exceeded; for Riga 112 percent of GDP of the European Union's average... This means that we have an adequate level of prosperity. And in fact, it is a question of the honour and prestige of our country, whether we are able to provide these more than 10 children ourselves with families, to teach and raise for the decent, honest citizens of Latvia. Will we, however, turn into a child-exporting country? Are we really like China? Now it is hard to say on what basis these considerations are. Human rights... Links – human rights, tolerance... and so on. However, I call for support for this draft law, which is the first step. And the second step will definitely be... will certainly be about increasing funding for foster families, about interest. I hope, however, for reason and for public support in this matter. One more idea, by the way. We have made a very large number of mistakes over time, in my opinion, including those relating to land and the sale of forest property. I will name a couple of figures: 48 percent of us, Latvian citizens, in Zilupe district – 38 percent. Now we will export children – let us allow adoption abroad! What will be the next step? Maybe we can get money by exporting labour and getting money for everyone who leaves Latvia?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U114	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U115	This story is about children who... adopt or not adopt abroad. And what I want to say to you is that I want to talk about duality, about all those who spoke before me... In fact, above all, those in power, who are the ruling coalition. About Mary Golubev, about the same neighbor... About Vita Andes Steel, Judine, Zakaistov, Linda Ozola, Iveta Benhen-Beeken, Jānis Butane, Eva Mārtuz, Evita Zaalīte-Gross... That's all you say – it's a duality. You're taking care of your children now. Suddenly. There have been quite a number of votes in this Saeima on children, both during and before the Covid-19 crisis. I'll list them. For example, a vote on children's lunch at school. There have been several such situations, both before and during the Covid-19 crisis. Dear friends, you voted against! Are you concerned about children's interests?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You voted against the children for public money. You voted 'no' (in this term) when there was a vote to make large families of children... in order to give a discount to one car with a slightly larger volume... You voted against the creation of a sub-committee on demographics. You voted against the reduction of VAT on specialised children's seats... That is, for those designed for children with disabilities. You voted 'no' at all when, during the crisis, there was a vote on helping children with disabilities. And now, today, are you talking about the interests of children?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That you are the greatest defender of children's interests?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, By the way, I will remind you that in 2020 funding was allocated to the non-governmental sector. From Development/About! Maria Golubeva created this sector... In the Society Integration Fund, where... Pouce's wife is there, you approved her there. I look at what money you have allocated to: “Providus”, Latvian Swimming Federation... I don't read there that you would have given money to children who are in orphanages or to those who would like to adopt them. No cents! And then. I look at how many proposals you have put forward for children. All those who spoke before me, big child defenders... You have not submitted any proposals for children up to this day... in relation to adoption. How to help families adopting children. You've never been interested in children. And you who receive enough funds, like all of us in Parliament, at least those who have no children, have you been an example? And if you care so much for those children, have you adopted one of them? Maybe we need to stop the doubles! And here I want to mention some of those who have spoken. What Atis Zakaistov said fell into my ears most of all. Mr. Zakatistov complained that the village was rude – not allowing those who have a different opinion to speak to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Zakaitistov, who has regularly allowed his group to sign documents that do not allow others to speak, the opposition! Now he's abyssed by the Neighbours! I will remind you, Mr Zakatistova, that no representative is from your party and political group in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, although you are entitled to take the lead of this committee instead of the neighbourhood. But you're just afraid of replacing him, because then maybe this coalition could collapse. And in the name of stability, ye shall bear the Neighbours in that commission, that he may subsequently complain that he shall not permit you to speak. A neighbor who is a great child defender. How many children has he defended in his life – he who drives this project? The dualities that you are talking about right now are, in fact, extremely much. During this term, there is one great duality. None of you are interested in those children. You have not submitted any draft laws to support such children or to support their education. The UKP, your representative is the Minister for Education and Science. How many proposals have your Minister put forward to help children living in orphanages or children with health problems? Development/About!. Maria Golubeva and Vita Anda Steel, representative of your party is the Minister for Health! How great has help been given to such ones? Have there at least been attempts to help? And I can answer you: there was no one... Zero! Exactly zero! And you are talking today about the fact that you want a better future for children. But maybe we should at last talk about other, more global things, not populist thesis... On the one hand and on the other hand, because both sides already emphasize that they take care of their children... but about the fact as such: why do we have children in Latvia at all? Why does our policy allow us to have children? I will remind you, which is the strongest nation in the world. They are Jews. And they don't have children's houses. They have a responsibility to be born or to society – to raise their children, to take them with them in the family. And so they exist for each other. And so they support each other. But this trend... with kids, I don't know with dog shelters, I'm sorry... and then market there and something else... It is, of course, disrespectful for people, disrespect for society. That is our weakness. And we should start by doing this by acknowledging that we have the weakness to care for the weakest part of society, which is children. To admit that we have no interest in taking care of this part of society, which is children. We do not even know what will happen to education in the autumn, where else will be what will happen to the children who come out of the orphanage. Where are they going to stay? How will they live? What will help them at the age of 18? Do they have to go straight through their first plane or go to England with their first crashed car – this has never been the subject of a parliamentary discussion. And to you, the National Association... Today, though, the National Association has not spoken... Your representative is the Prime Minister's Adviser on demographic issues, who should perhaps have talked about this subject and brought it to light. Today, we are concerned about whether or not children will care for them elsewhere. But maybe we shouldn't worry if someone else will take care of our children, but we should start to worry about why our politics and our society do not want to take care of their children? Why do we not love children so much in our society? Why are children not in the first place in our society? Why are all laws not subordinated to the best interests of children? Can't do it all – now suddenly pull out one law and think that it will be able to earn some political benefits on one side or on the other side! I think that is the biggest problem. And you, Mr Zakatistov, need not complain about the village that he is rude, but you need to put on him the point that you have put on him, as you say in the press. Put that point on, and change it under the authority of its commission, because it is due to you. But you cannot, because then perhaps you will not personally have a parliamentary secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Because this is not about children. This is about posts. This is about whether or not you will be elected. And about how long you'll have or how long you won't have a job. Because if you were talking about children, you would have given them all a weekend during the crisis. You would have supported children with disabilities during the crisis, you would have supported children who need specialised child chairs that would not pay anything because it would be at the expense of the state. You have four billion and you can buy masks at increased prices, a million there, a million here. But the kids... 10, 20, 30, maybe 100,000... You don't have – you never have! – funds for those who need it. You have only for yourself, for your political interests. You have your own parties, you have five million at once. Or perhaps five million before you talk about your children, you should give back your children’s orphanage. And then you would have the right to talk about the protection of children's rights (as opposed to having a double dull). But you don't. You don't do it, because then you're not going to get something – advertising, washing... Or you don't know... for a new suit, BMW X5 or someone else will not, because there will be children. However, Christian values must take priority in caring for the weaker. You have to take care of your children! And not only today, but all the votes - all the votes that have been and will be held in the Saeima in the future. We must vote in favour of the children! And we shouldn't have examined this bill today if we don't look at it together with the question why we have children's children at all. I really don't like the doubles. And you know that I always speak righteousness. I commend if there are grounds for praise, and I say fair criticism if there are reasonable grounds to say fair criticism. I don't like your duality, BIP. I don't like your duality, Development/About!. I don’t like your duality, “KPV LV”. If your position is not “for” but “for” (and you may have it, it is your right), don’t say here that you stand for children! You shall not vote in any of the votes... You have never done so before during this parliamentary term. You're not interested in them. But I hope they will soon start to interest you, because soon you will understand that your ratings fall (for all of you they fall!) ; you will not have options, you will have to start thinking, will suddenly start remembering that there is a society, that there is a nation, that there are children, pensioners, poor people. That it's not just purchases without competitions, the quiet... from secret. That it's not just your political tourism travel. Think about it. I know that I don't like you because I speak a direct language. But answer honestly, which of the words which I said in this speech is not true? Who is not right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U116	Mr. Dombrovskis, would you have eight minutes to break?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U117	Yeah, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U118	That's enough. So the name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U119	Dear colleagues, Now, after this long speech by Mr Gobzem, there is not much to say. I wasn't going to talk at first because... Well, the fact that Latvian populism... about to... better reject without saying anything else, don't give any undue attention to it... However... Listening here to all the speeches that I would call such emotional hypocrisy on the part of many Members, I would nevertheless like to ask you a few questions. What have you specifically done lately and what will you do in future so that it is for Latvian families to be able to adopt all these children? You have increased public funding for political parties seven times. Construction of Liepaja prison... Will it help to achieve this in some way? Acoustic Concert Hall, Demolition of Buildings? What else, please tell me! Does the fact that your representative, the Minister of Education and Science, now discusses space in some way help all those children and families of Latvia who could adopt them? You are now talking, Mr Kazinovsky, about some fast-growing prosperity – one that is rapidly approaching the European level. Mr. Kazinovsky, do you know at all that, in the decade following the crisis, Latvia's gross domestic product has practically remained on the ground, practically unchanged? Do you know, Mr Kazinovsky, that Latvia is increasingly lagging behind not only Estonia but also Lithuania? Mr. Kazinovsky, you must have studied mathematics at school. Gross domestic product per capita can also grow as a result of a shrinking population. That's why gross domestic product per capita has grown as fast as you say. It is precisely because the population, Mr Kazinovsky, is decreasing – and it is falling very rapidly. You see this rapid approach to the level of the European Union, Mr Kazinovsky? Now I have that proposal, colleagues. I think it is probably necessary to submit a second-reading proposal that all those Members who have now spoken so emotionally and hypocritically about the sale and export of children... I think it is necessary to put forward a proposal in order for Members of the Saeima to have a prior right to those children who are going to be adopted abroad. So that you, colleagues, can show by your personal example that you can give those kids... you could take them and make them a better future than if they were adopted abroad. Show it, colleagues, with your personal example, not with this emotional hypocrisy! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U120	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U121	There were many different points of view. People have spoken, they have spoken about all the topics that homospasm – a little... But the next bill is as important as this one. On behalf of the Commission, I do not want to add anything; let me just say that, after a break, we will look at the next one in the tandem with this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U122	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Time and Application Procedure of the Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Family Rights of 1937”! Please, let's vote! On – 51, against – 36, abstained – 5. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U123	The deadline for submitting proposals is 8 August 2020, i.e. one month.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U124	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 8 August this year. Colleagues, time to break. Registration of Members is ongoing. It has been successfully completed. Interruption until 4 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U125	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda – draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U126	Good afternoon, colleagues! Thank you for supporting the previous draft law. We are currently looking at the draft law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child (No. 736/Lp13). As I have already mentioned, this draft law goes along with the previous one, which has already been examined. The first paragraph of Article 6 shall be supplemented by a second sentence as follows: ‘The best methodology for determining the best interests of the child shall be defined by the Cabinet of Ministers.’ It is also intended to supplement the transitional provisions by point 41 by the following wording: The third paragraph of Article 31 of this Law shall not apply from 1 September 2020 until the date of entry into force of amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children and other laws and regulations on adoption of children abroad, except for cases when 1) adoption proceedings are initiated where information about the child to be adopted is provided; 2) the child of the other spouse is adopted; 3) his relatives are adopted. The laws and regulations in force at the time of initiation of adoption proceedings shall apply in the cases of pending adoption proceedings.’ Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U127	Debate... debate... The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U128	Hello, fellow Members, again! The President of the Commission, Artus Kaimiņš, has already marked the things that would be needed to continue working... or, to put it more correctly, what work should be done to make the best interests of the child... to create this framework. And in fact, this is the most important thing if we need to talk about all these changes... to which all these changes lead... So – define the best interests of the child. And the examples are, we don't even have to look far. For example, the way Estonian colleagues work. How does this happen in Estonia? In Estonia, it is clearly defined that, in any adoption process, the best interests of the child are given priority over those of families looking for adoption of children. According to Estonian family law, a child can only be adopted from Estonia to a foreign country in exceptional circumstances if it has been demonstrated that it is not possible in any way to provide care in Estonia for the child concerned. History. Estonian children have been able to be adopted abroad since 1990, and the main countries to which adoption has taken place have been the United States, Finland, Sweden. And cooperation agreements with the US and Finland have already expired – in 2013 and 2016 respectively. Estonia currently has cooperation agreements with the United Kingdom and Sweden. And... And in Estonia, there are fewer and fewer children in institutions – practically very, very few. I think we do not need to be afraid of following good examples, we need to roll sleeves and start working. I even think that, since our children are mostly adopted to the United States, then... Covid-19 time is certainly quite crazy to currently carry out such a process as adoption. I think that if we work hard, we will be able to make these changes both in legislation and in local social assistance quickly and well. I believe that we can do everything well and children can be safe. And about our own works, about what we're doing here, we can just be proud of it. You don't have to call each other and say that we haven't done anything. Let's work together! I believe that we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U129	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U130	Colleagues! As regards the amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, which are on the agenda today, I have to tell you how it really happened. I am speaking now on behalf of Artusa Kaimina. I don't speak as the head of the commission right now, I don't speak on behalf of the commission. I mean, it's that... I think... As you colleagues would have done for me if you were a year and a half ago... if any of you had received official information from the Ombudsman, from the State Audit Office... audit... that serious irregularities have been detected... in principle such as... Well, then it would be careful... immediately have to do something. This word is “immediate”... What had to be done immediately has been extended for a year and a half. As a commission manager, I had in principle two options to do. The first option is not doing anything and pretending to be a dead fish. And the other option – to do, to examine this issue and... and try to find the best solution so that such violations no longer exist. In other words, what was the problem? Naturally, it was in practice that children were taken from foster families and brought back to this instance. And then from there the child is given to adoption – to foreign countries. Is that normal? No, it's not normal. Should I do something? Yeah, I should do it. When do you start doing this? In 2049? How long has this matter been misinformed? The accusations I had... the previous speakers also said that I was rude and insensitive, and someone else... I'm a bad commission manager. Well, let it be! I understand that this is a very sensitive issue and... One does not like that, on behalf of the Commission, I read from a page; the other does not like that I speak... For one – daughter, for the other – dress... Whatever it is, it's all part of the thing. And when it comes to the work of the commission itself, it must be said that these questions were such that... We had remote sittings, unfortunately... Yes, they were remote sittings, although the face effect is a lot, much better... Well, I think speaking here is both safer and simpler. However, we had remote sittings with 50 participants! And... Yeah, I'm also for those people... Also, those who have spoken have repeated at one meeting of the Commission... I've also had such a sitting... In such a way that the views were heard. I have to chair the sitting, and how I do it... That's how I do it. If someone does not like it – please have a Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications... and so on. Let's go! In any case, I think it is good that there is this debate here. And about the use of terms. It's very important to understand that... I would ask you, colleagues, to understand that we are not talking about a moratorium. Only two persons can determine the moratorium in our country: the first person is the President of Latvia, and the second person is the Prime Minister. And in our country, Latvia, there is only one moratorium. And that's about the death penalty. That's it! There are no other moratoriums in the country. We are talking here, in this bill, about a time-barring denial of children's adoption abroad. The Minister for Welfare Ramona Petraviča is responsible for the expansion and size of the frame of time, because Ramona Petraviča is the person who heads the development meeting in which the... Yes, opposition, excuse me, but there is... representatives of coalition parties. And these meetings are looking for solutions, if I understand correctly, so that there are no such issues. But I'm very strange to see that... I hear all the time: there's no money, there's no money! And then suddenly... Let's say, yesterday... strange coincidences after I see a paid article where... It is written that it is a paid article in connection with the Ministry of Welfare... TVNET, so – in commercial media... It is about this topic – children's adoption abroad... So the funds of the Ministry of Welfare are paid for expressing their opinion... There is, of course, what is wrong, that those children must be in these families outside Latvia. That's not all! So Ramona Petravič himself says... not tell, but tell us on Twitter that, you see, the Ministry of Welfare – and not about Ramona Petraviča money, but about taxpayers' money! – has formed a sociological survey in SKDS, where, if I remember correctly, about 90 percent of the respondents said that yes, such an adoption should be – to be abroad. But I don't understand... And I think it's totally useless money... on the preparation of such a subject before our meeting today, 9 July, on the agenda... I see here a correlation with this... On the website of the Ministry of Welfare we see the agenda of Minister Ramona Petraviča in the form of a calendar – what works the Minister has to do. I opened this page and I can see that on Monday, July 6, Ramona Petraviča’s working day began at 11.00. And at 11.00, Ramona was the board meeting of KPV LV. Someone has to do with the work of the Minister for Welfare – I don't know. On 13.30, Ramona Petraviča had an interview for television. On 14.30, Ramona Petraviča had a Cooperation meeting. Dear colleagues, Those normally present at the Cooperation meeting are those who are also in the coalition. We did not meet on 6 July. Thus, in principle, Ramona Petraviča could spend that time dealing with the matter. We take Tuesday – July 7. 11.00 Ramon and radio interview. 1 p.m. – OECD Ministerial Conference. On Wednesday, July 8, Ramon at 11.00 a.m. is a development council meeting on children's adoption abroad. And I would like to touch on this a little more scrupulously. So, as I said... if this development board meeting has taken place... Last night it took 40 minutes... And three weeks ago, there was another sitting... There have been two sittings on this issue in total. And the previous sitting was 35 minutes. Together, it's 75 minutes spent with all the restaurants, with the Perresor Coordination Centre... Although the President's Chancellery wanted to be involved in this... At the development meeting, they have still not been given this opportunity. This draft law does not concern any kind of bans, but how and when Ramona Petraviča will finally start performing the ministerial tasks rather than taking pictures and films (I think Ramona Petraviča likes much better than working as ministers). The time frame will be the same as the previous bill. The deadline for submitting proposals will be one month. I think that these development meetings can be made much more, more intensively, and indeed, by 8 August, we expect in the Commission simply excellent, grandiose proposals, because this is not a question that we did not know about from heaven. For one and a half years we have been talking about this! And I am grateful to my fellow Members who voted in favour and who supported the inclusion of this issue on the agenda. For what shall it be done, if the Minister of Welfare does not? The previous minister did. Go on. What has already been asked about – what has been done... what has been done to prevent this situation. I didn't really hear the answers. What I see is that... that, well, such a dry balance... Maybe it's not polite to do that, but... Well, it's gone! I, of course, congratulate Ramon Petravič on the acquisition of a new Lexus NX 300 Hybrid family. It's really... Perhaps, in principle, also correlates somehow with this item on the agenda, I do not know. If we are talking about prosperity, I also see that Ramona Petraviča has, in principle, the newest car... for all the ministerial machines, the youngest... assigned to work needs. It's with blue numbers... Complete electric car... I understand that – to be good... Well, it's also right, and it's definitely a good sign, because the state must start with itself and only the example teaches. Here I do not see such examples; I do see them in a very second way... So, here's my colleague, the dry balance is that... Please, Ministry of Welfare – everything! – to join this question, rather than make it verdict that all this is that you have to vote against and that this issue should not be... that you don't have to talk about it... and so on. I don't want to hear it! This development meeting is being prepared to give us a solution. Members of the Commission will be prepared for a proposal on... on which we will be discussing already at second reading... Not immediately force me into it: “No, there won’t be anything, it won’t be necessary! That's not what it is! It’s a waste of time!” Then do not waste your time. Members will then make their own proposals. I think we have done exactly the right thing to refer to and see this alarm... this signal gun, which has been activated by the Ombudsman and the State Audit Office. It is right that the commission has responded rather than not responded and that this issue is being addressed. And let's go ahead! We will still have many and deep discussions on this subject. I am pleased to see this support from Members. So we're on the right track. Please support this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U131	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U132	Dear colleagues, I listened with great interest to the commission president's story about what and how it happened in the commission, and I learned a lot interesting, even though I took part in all the committee's meetings dealing with this issue. See... Of course, such reports cannot be ignored, but... Yes, we are aware of serious violations of children's rights. Hence, it is obvious that law enforcement bodies should be involved first and foremost. This can be done if we know at least some specific cases where someone is guilty. It will continue now, in the sitting of the Saeima, not only in the sittings of the committee – some vague hint that children are being sold... Today we also heard such clear homophobic expressions that they were intended to be sold to same-sex families... and so on, and so on. That the courts of the orphanage are being bought... and so on. No specific case, no specific institutions, no specific surname! How should we react? Immediately with the amendment of the law? Because really, if there are irregularities... Breach of children's rights is a serious crime. Why did we decide not to turn to the prosecutor's office and other law enforcement authorities to investigate? The Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission has no right of investigation. We're talking in general, and that's how it's still... is also present in today's discussions. The second question is about the moratorium. Well, Mr. Village, what you're offering is a moratorium, nothing else! From a purely legal point of view, the moratorium is a decision, which provides that any norm of the law will not be applied in practice while this norm is still preserved in the law. This is the case, for example, with the abolition of the death penalty. Before the abolition of the death penalty at all, a moratorium was imposed on the norm of the death penalty. And that's the usual practice. There is currently no moratorium on execution, because our legislation simply does not provide for a form of death penalty. Unfortunately, your position is very eclectic. On the one hand, you offer just a moratorium, so – to stop some action provided for in the law until a certain deadline... to be precise, not by a specific date, but by the time when a new regulation will be developed. On the other hand, you argue that this is not a moratorium. Well, let us be right in law! And I would also like to oppose what several Members have said in the debate: that the Commission offers it or... There was no consensus in the Commission, and the Commission distinguished itself in favour of this option with a single vote. So there was a serious debate, and I would say that it was more about nature than what we are hearing today. A very long debate, but... To be honest, colleagues, do not take evil, but I do not have an interesting explanation of relations between coalition parties. And even less so, I'm interested in keeping the accounts between the existing and the former members of the CPV LV. Mr. Neighbours spoke for a very long time, but... Those mutual attacks - well, I do not think that this is what Members of a serious parliament should listen to at a meeting paid by taxpayers. Colleagues, let's really stop it once! There are serious violations, and the Ombudsman said that... Okay, what's wrong? There are certain people who are those evildoers who want to pay for any bribes there, buy Latvian children and give them to same-sex couples living in America? Well, give us more specific information! At the moment, it seems to me that we are actually implementing the same concept that many speakers have already talked about today – that those children are our resources that we will not give to others. And I especially liked what Mr. Kazinovsky said – so that they would stay here, because then they would work, pay taxes and so on. Unfortunately, it is not always the case that children who grow up in conditions that are not suitable for normal growth of the child then become full members of society. To ensure this, we really need to ensure its family care... And children are not a resource! Once again, the main objective of this is that we should act in such a way that it is in the best interests of the child. And the last one. You know, it's a very good idea, because really... Let us accept that moratorium to force the Ministry to work. You want to say that the Ministry is not working well enough without such emergency measures? I'm sorry, it's your government's problem. And indeed, we have a lot of unresolved issues in the area of taxation and so on. Perhaps let us also impose a moratorium on tax payments, while the Ministry of Finance does not offer adequate regulation for tax systems? And it can continue for quite a long time. I really am very sad to listen to this debate. And I call on you not to support this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U133	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U134	Colleagues! I really regret that the time that is meant for the debate we are using to have relations in order to bring one another up. That is not right. Let's take a look at the bill! There are two articles. One article requires the government to develop a methodology for determining the best interests of the child. There was some concern about this provision for the Bureau of Law and, certainly, we will have to continue the discussion at the commission meeting. What is important about this provision? It is not intended that the government will determine what is good or better interests of the child. It is foreseen that the government will in principle develop a sign of the way in which it can be found out, discover what interests are best. That's one thing. Next. The draft law contains another article providing for a moratorium. In particular, until a new procedure for adoption abroad is established, do not start new things. The pending cases will continue. Don't start new! And that's all. And all the other debates are simply not necessary. These are negotiations about something else, but not about the bill. Given that we supported the previous draft law, please also support this... and continue working on future draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U135	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U136	Hello, colleagues! I have been following with great interest the debate on the previous draft law, and I want to talk about this draft law and call on you to support it. Because I work at the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, where we really looked at this issue for a very long time. I personally have met a number of people in my office who are interested - from both sides - in dealing with these issues, and I believe that it is my duty to speak in this debate as well. Of course, without political rhetoric, this is not possible either, because... I want to join my colleague, Evita Halle-Gross, because we really have to be socially responsible for the country. It is written in our preamble to the Constitution and we must continue to move towards a socially responsible state. These legislative amendments are indeed necessary, they are in the interests of our children and in the interests of society as a whole. The Convention on the Rights of the Child contains one very important provision that it is in the best interests of children to live in their homeland at birth. So if there is adoption, then close to the former family or closer to the family. This is an important norm. I think that if Latvia moves towards the rule of law and a socially responsible state, we will have the opportunity to change the model... the responsibility so that society assumes the protection of children. And I want to say that in our party, the New Conservative Party, there are two families who have adopted children. And my colleagues who have spoken about this issue are very well aware of it. It is very important to look at this issue right now, at the time of the Covid-19 situation, because it must be taken into account that a country that is almost the only country to which adoption is currently taking place has not ratified this Convention. This is very important given that there is no one particular state institution with which Latvia could maintain relations. And the task of Latvia's state is to arrange supervision, to follow what happens to these children when they are already in the United States. It is really a very uncomfortable, politically very unpleasant situation. We see that Latvia is, in fact, one of the rare countries that do not hold a long-term monitoring of what happens to children in their adoption families. I think, too, foreign policy, of course, this is a very sensitive, sensitive issue. But it must be borne in mind that the OECD... In fact, OSCE countries do not return their children to adoption. Yeah... Russia was also called. We do not need to compare ourselves with Russia, we need to look at what we do at the club of countries where we are proud to be. And that means that we have to work very hard on this issue ourselves here. In the run-up to today's debate, I also met what I mentioned... my colleague Eva Mārtova has already mentioned, and I want to name this researcher... The work of the master, developed by Dace Rence, is a very controversial work, let's say, from a methodology study point of view, but it's wonderful... quality of work – in the sense that there are quality research, interviews with adopted children in the United States and with their adoptors, their families. It is a pity that such interviews have not been carried out with families here in Latvia, and that there are only these interviews – American. And when I read them, I think it would be very valuable if those of our fellow Members who are speaking against this bill came to know them. That would be very important because there are so many nuances and things that we simply cannot highlight on this political platform, but on people who feel narrative, who feel people's stories... and these are very cheese stories not only for children who change culture, language... Yes, of course, they are very successful in one way – they have reached one of the richest countries in the world. But that hurts what my colleague Eva Mārtova said – it cannot be compensated. And where else does the situation appear in interviews with parents who adopt these children! As the representatives of the Ministry of Justice pointed out, Latvian children are characterised by very complex social behaviour, and it opens up many questions for us as a society. It is not for nothing that several speakers here stressed that, in fact, this issue enlightens us as a society to a large extent and makes us think more about where these people who are not full of life emerge... competence and who are not at all responsible for their lives and are responsible for their children. I think that the demonstration of responsibility comes from the state, however. This law is not arbitrary, as has been mentioned here. Then we could mention every law... and called self-employed. This law is a very responsible attitude towards their children, towards their society. And I would like to emphasise once again: it is an opportunity to change the paradigm of our country in such a way that we become a socially responsible state. I would like to express my thanks to all my colleagues who understand this issue and voted in favour of this draft law. And I call on us to continue to support it so that we can work together on this issue, so that these issues can be resolved gradually, slowly and properly in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U137	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U138	Hello, fellow Members, again! In my opinion, the vote on the previous draft law showed clearly and clearly that in our Saeima, 13. In the Saeima, Members are divided into liberals and national Conservatives. It is precisely this issue that is like litmus paper, which shows whether people understand human rights. In reality, the child is also a man. And it is from the national Conservatives that there is a terminology that was expressed in the previous debate... words such as “grooming, ” when it comes to children... ‘child-exporting country’... And even Mr Kazinovsky allowed me to say that this would lead to Latvia exporting people soon. I would like to point out that this is already happening. It is one of Latvia's most profitable export sections, let us say so. We make... because our people from our country are leaving with all the children. Those children who could be born in Latvia are born there. And very many of these children will never return to Latvia, never speak Latvian, and never fall into our culture. And it has nothing to do with the moratorium that the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs wants to declare, and overtaking power over these children. About what Mr. Nemiņš pointed out – that, my God, what is happening... For adoption to the United States, children are taken out of foster families and temporarily placed in institutions. Yes, this is only for one reason: there are these children who are already willing to adopt them to the United States. Because the former welfare minister, Mr. Reira, signed one paper before leaving his post, which forbids... prevented these children from being adopted at the time, which was why this scheme arose. And this scheme is - was and is - in the interests of the children. Unlike what you are doing now with that real moratorium. And if we are talking about clubs that could belong to Latvia – we will, unfortunately, be in a club with Russia, with the law of Dimas Jakovļeva if we support this draft law now. Well, let's go! Not with any other country, normal, but with Russia, we'll be in the same club. For another club – our government. Mr. Neighbours asked what you would do... Is that so? I could list you a whole plan – all you could do for a year and a half. Draft laws, draft decisions, tasks for the government, steps of influence... On Mondays, when you discuss everything (the exception is the fate of these children), you could convene joint meetings with the Social and Labour Affairs Commission to examine this problem systemically – together with all social protection programmes – so that Latvia, as Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas rightly said, would still be in line with the Preamble of the Satversme! – a socially responsible country, which... Well, I guess it's not if you need a law that will lead Latvia into a club with Russia. I call for this draft law not to be supported. I call on you to reflect on and to think about the issues that are really happening, not about moving one party's political ambitions forward. And more. I would like to remind you that people who are now taking care of children have been led some time before, for example, the Children's Rights Protection Inspectorate, whose usefulness had to be examined long ago – what this organization does and how it takes care of children's interests in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U139	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U140	Hello, colleagues! The debate on this issue is very hot. And it is a pity that really Latvia will end up in a club with Russia – both Russia and Latvia will not allow adoption of children abroad. Well, the National Association should also be ashamed of this – that we come together with Russia on one list. But I'd like to tell you a story about what... which also offend me on this issue. 15 years ago, I was in Tērvete, where Tērvete's orphanage is located, and I met one such youth we were talking about. And he was also adopted abroad. And just recently he told me... He tells me and tells me about how he's going in America. He has acquired American citizenship, he is married, he is happy, he has a family. He's got kids who... Maybe he wouldn't have ever met in Latvia... And he's working in the U.S. army, and he's not like a soldier anymore, but a captain. Here's a success story for him. He has survived this story and he is really happy. He still sees Latvia as his own country. It's okay that he lives in America. And I invite the chairman of the commission, Artus, to adopt even one child! Just one! But there is one problem. There is one problem – subordinate institutions, Artus, you will never be allowed to adopt any child, because your addictions are superior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U141	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U142	Dear colleagues, Listening to this rather strange discussion gives the impression that the biggest problem for us is not the problem of adoption of children, but the crisis of parliamentaryism in Latvia. For indeed, I think everyone knows for a long time that there are several problems in adoption cases; some of them have been examined by our Ombudsman on the basis of... also through the State Audit Office, because it was a statement that these problems existed. A year and a half have passed. Instead of talking about these ways, how to solve the problem, what mechanisms should be to amend the law to create a system that works, which really would protect the interests and rights of every child, we came to what? We came to the point that, here, we should ask the government to think about how to deal with this matter. This is the result of one and a half years of work! Because the two draft laws, which were and are debated, address only one issue – gives the government a task: do it, don't know, bring it, don't know anything. There's no timetable, no content... None except the introduction of a moratorium. The first question – how long will this moratorium take? How much time does it take? What should be done? So that all these things can be outlined in a single document, maybe... After having received the Ombudsman's article... prepare a draft decision of the Saeima with a specific task – a time frame. And then we would not try to convince each other today, who loves more children and who better defends and protects children's interests, but instead talk about concrete mechanisms of action. Therefore, this proposed law does not solve any of the issues that are, and unfortunately, remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U143	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U144	Dear colleagues, Less in this debate, I was looking forward to hearing terms such as homophobia and Lexus. First. Let's start with homophobia. I understand that Mr Cilevič always cares about this issue and it is very important for him. But we are talking about children's rights at the moment. We are not talking about the desire of two adults to adopt a child in another country. We are talking about Latvia's legislation, we are talking about the Hague Convention, which also determines foreign adoption, and we are talking about the fact that in Latvia this adoption is not allowed for same-sex couples. The law does not provide for this. And Mr Kazinovsky did not say anything wrong, saying that we do not want our laws to be violated in any way. See homophobia in it and fight for never to offend some out-of-the-air couples, same-sex couples, talking about children's rights here in Latvia, about adoption of children – it's more than hypocrisy. So that your homophobia or homophilia (I don't know what it is called), please put other questions, but not here! If we are talking further about lexus, I would like to remind my honourable colleagues from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs once again... I think that the speech of my colleague Mr. Kaimina today, when speaking about this draft law, once again illustrates that he is not suitable as the head of the commission. Why? Because he can't solve the matter without touching people personally. He cannot solve the issue without trying to offend and polarise the situation in some way. I believe that such sensitive issues – such as the protection of children's rights, the prohibition of child adoption or the regulation of tighter frames – can be resolved in a respectful discussion without trying to block your mouth without trying to wash dirty clothes by telling... here, in the debate of the Saeima, telling about some income, about some photographs... We see that you really do not like your former colleague very much. Why do we need to hear all this? Get out of here! You don't need to solve these things here when we discuss the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. I would really like to say a word of support to Mrs Petraviča. I understand that she has now collapsed all over because she is trying to defend the order that has existed so far. And it is understandable that in one year it is impossible to arrange the entire system in such a way that really adoptors here in Latvia could feel safe, protected from the state and... Well, in that sense, taken care of by the state, all the thanks received... Mrs Petraviča was one of those who signed the bill on the adoption of additional leave, regardless of age. So thank you for that. And thank you to the Ministry of Welfare for supporting this proposal. That's one. Second. We are talking about different countries where such bans exist, we are referring to Russia, perhaps also Ethiopia, but we are not talking about countries where such a ban is not necessary. In Spain, for example, there are simply no orphanages, there are no children that should be adopted, because all adoptives have taken those children a long time ago. And if there is a disaster and the child does not have parents, it is immediately solved, because the adoptors in Spain enjoy state aid to the greatest extent. I hope we go to the fact that we... that we will not have to fight through bans, but that we will finally be able to provide support to the adoptors. I will only support this draft law for this reason... and only on the condition that over this period of time... It is very bad that you have, however, set a very short deadline for tabling proposals – contrary to the fact that I had asked for one month. That's very little. I will support this draft law on the condition that, by this time, we will be able to work together... And so here, please don't have any opposition-colliction games! We will then be able to support the support mechanism for adoptors... They deserve it a long time ago. And only if we support it at first reading will I give my support in the future. And maybe the rest of my colleagues will also give their support to this idea for second and third reading. This is conceptual support... just to avoid where to go on the question of the support of adoptors here in Latvia. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U145	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U146	Hello, colleagues! This debate, which is currently about this bill, and also about the previous one, is, of course, intertwined. Here, opinions are shared both on the process and on the content. And I would also like to talk about both of these things today. The first is on the content. In my opinion, this is a rather aggressive step – the way the legislator intends to solve the problem. The statement states that there is this call by the Ombudsman. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Ombudsman has called on the Saeima to take decisions on other matters as well. And already today... And even before... Last... during this month there are already two judgments of the Constitutional Court in cases where... The Ombudsman has previously addressed the Saeima with an invitation to resolve them, but it has not been resolved... This is about the social problem. In my opinion, the biggest question is what is purely content here – how do we deal with these children right now, what are their living conditions today and what can we do better today? And that's what... This bill does not answer in any way what it will be like tomorrow – whether it really is as sunny as it promises. I would like to say that we should address that issue not only in the course of the examination of this draft law, but also in the course of the examination of a much more important draft law – that is, in the course of the examination of the draft budget law. Because the budget law is the law in which politicians can express their attitude to that or any other question, showing how and how much they support it financially. This is what the least is being said about here, but the most should be spoken about. And therefore, in my opinion, without such financial support, this solution, which is being proposed here, will in no way improve the lives of these children. Next thing. About the process. To the remote sitting. On how we have reached this decision. Of course, it is clear that the issue has not been discussed... As Mr Judine said earlier, we can only express our views here, but we cannot convince each other in any way. I would like to join this theme, because it really is. We can express our opinion, but we can hardly convince each other. It's hardly possible here. But to have discussions and to do away with these unanswered questions in any way... As I said, I think this is a really very sensitive social problem, and here are equally important both aspects – both human rights aspect, the human rights aspect of children, as well as the social aspect. And that's why I call for the co-responsible commission of this draft law... at least find the way in which format... It could be the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. And so that these discussions on such an important issue really take place as wide as possible, involving several parliamentary commissions and not just one committee – the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs... It's just about it here from a process point of view... Many speakers have already expressed doubts about how this process has happened. Thus, in my opinion, we would find greater clarity on this issue. The more clarity, the better. And, of course, I can't stand by... And the head of the commission... Of course, I was also interested in hearing all the arguments why this draft law should be supported... from your point of view. Of course, these arguments were really very interesting. And I understand that you have a great deal of sympathy for the Ministers for Welfare... And it is normal that the head of the commission shows his affection for ministers, but maybe these deep personal questions... Maybe choose a more traditional method that you can do! Maybe go to the cafe, talk, and show your pleasure to someone else's colleagues in this way, instead of using this platform – the e-Saeima platform! This shouldn't be done here. And if you were to meet and talk more often, maybe you would get a different vision and understand each other better in these matters too. It is quite clear at the moment: although you are a recent colleague, a member of the fight, your views on this issue are now... Looks like you're not one another... You haven't heard me. I call on my fellow Members to vote for their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U147	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U148	Yes, colleagues! This question is, by its very nature, complex and it is not the case that there is one right and one wrong point of view. On this point, it is true for both sides, but there is, of course, consistency on one side and on the other. First of all, I cannot agree with the argument that we should look at what some other countries will think about us. We're not a vassal state, we're not a 52nd State! We are an independent country! Therefore, this cannot certainly be an argument. We have not also analysed what it is – let's call, apologies, in such a vulgar name – business here on the spot in Latvia, not only abroad. And we have not analysed many other issues either. This question is important only in one aspect: what has been done in essence by the Parliament of the Republic of Latvia and the Government, including the gold voice of the government – the head of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, Kaimiņš. What has been done over more than a year and a half for the benefit of Latvian children by nature, not in slogans? How many votes with your gold voice have voted in order for Latvian children, absolutely everyone, in all categories – with parents, without parents, healthy and sick – to have better living conditions so that they get better health care, better education and everything else? I can answer: absolutely nothing. Absolutely nothing! And so in today's circumstances, to use the Saeima vebinar, which, of course, is not the format in which children should be talked about... The whole public understands that this format is a laughter about the Latvian Parliament. But, even in this laughter vebinary about such a serious issue, I would like to tell Mr. Kaimiņš, as Head of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, that... Although I am in opposition and do not support the Kariņš Government (and therefore I do not objectively support all the ministers who have agreed to be in this government), I can say that Ramona Petraviča, as a Minister for Welfare, has never, for any time, refused to engage and has always tried to help to solve, as far as possible, the people's problems in the area in question. Both those I have asked for a solution and another colleague of mine has asked... I don't know the case that Ramona Petraviča would have been uninterested. And the fact that Mr. Kaimiņš is not able to put this question aside as a commission manager – it shows that there is a rather sad view of the quality we have under the commissions. I think that there should be a different solution here. The question should be asked: how much the head of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs has invested in the Ministry of Welfare, which is responsible for supporting people, especially the poorest people, children, families and pensioners... How much money is it that Mrs Petraviča can carry out all the functions that the ministry needs to do? How much helped your government with the voice of gold? And again I have to answer – don't say anything. Zero! Exactly zero! And then he talks about some kind of stupidity. This is such an important subject – about children! It is so important that this discussion is not about whether it is right or wrong – to adopt children and send or not to send away – but about why in Latvia we ourselves, citizens of the Republic of Latvia, members of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, have not achieved a change of understanding (not only money, but also a change of understanding!) so that we don't have any children at all, no day, never. That is what we had to discuss. It is a much more important issue when we talk about parliamentary work and legislative work and about the power of thought that is being exercised. This is the setting that this golden voice should work on. And I would like to thank Mrs Petraviča once again for every time people have approached me as a Member with their own problem. Mrs Petraviča has never refused to help as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U149	The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U150	This is undoubtedly an example of the publicity of Mr. Kaimiņš. But the best publicity would be for Mr. Nemiņš to go to one of the support centres tomorrow and apply for adoption courses. And if you succeed in completing these courses, go to one of the children's homes and adopt at least a couple of children. At the moment, what is being done is sitting in a white horse and being ripped through the souls, lives and fates of children, being ripped through the lives of the children who hoped that they would have a family once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U151	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U152	Yes, colleagues, unfortunately, I am not a 50-euro banknote, and I cannot please everyone.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U153	On behalf of the Commission... Is that so? On behalf of the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U154	Yes, Mrs. Mourniece... Mrs Mūrniece, on behalf of the Commission I would like to say that I am not a 50-euro banknote and I...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U155	In the Commission, we did not discuss this, Mr. Neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U156	It's... So the commissions...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U157	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” (No. 736/Lp13) at first reading! Please, let's vote! For – 49, against – 31, abstained – 7. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U158	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 8 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U159	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 8 August this year. On the agenda – Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” (No. 341/Lp13), second reading. Member Ilmārs Dūritis on behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U160	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! High honourable Members! The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” prior to the second reading (No. 341/Lp13). In the second reading, 13 proposals were received to the Commission. 1. – The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The first paragraph of Article 11 shall be supplemented by the following sentence: ‘The State and the municipality shall ensure the assessment of the special needs of all children by the start of compulsory education and shall provide individual educational and psychological support measures appropriate to the needs of the child at public, municipal and private institutions.’ This proposal was supported by the Commission. I therefore call on you to support it on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U161	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – Proposal submitted by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 81, against and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U162	2. - Mrs Golubeva's proposal. Supplement the second paragraph of Section 11 of the Law with the following sentence: ‘(2) The State and municipality shall ensure the assessment of special needs for all children when starting compulsory education and shall provide individual educational and psychological support measures appropriate to the needs of the child at municipal and state educational institutions.’ The proposal has been partly supported and included 1. – the Commission proposal. For the Commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U163	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Golubeva's proposal! Please, let's vote! -16 for, -37 for, -16 for, -37 for, -16 for. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U164	3. – The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The second paragraph of Article 12 shall be supplemented by the following sentence: ‘The State shall ensure an early assessment of development for all children between one and a half years of age and three years of age in order to facilitate the timely recognition of developmental disorders and possible special needs.’ This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U165	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U166	Dear colleagues, I will remind you what this proposal means – the country provides an early assessment of development for all children – which was proposed more than a year ago, together with some colleagues from the New Unity, the National Association and the SAA. This means that finally a system or set of measures will be established in Latvia, which should ensure timely recognition of the development disruptions. Of course, in cases where developmental disorders are identified, including psycho-emotional or cognitive developmental disorders such as automic spectrum disorders, this will allow the timely and more effective provision of support measures, therapy, support in training, as well as possible support for the family where these children grow. The earlier serious developmental problems are identified, the more effective the help of specialists can be. Of course, it will require both the training of family doctors to make an assessment and the availability of other specialists, but it is one real opportunity to improve the quality of life of children with special needs, help them to have a better quality of life and autonomy, and maximise their potential. I call on you to vote in favour of the Commission's proposal, which has, in editorial terms, improved my proposal, and I thank the Commission for its support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U167	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there more to be added to proposal 3?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U168	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U169	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – The proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! There is no – 77, not and refrain. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U170	4. - Mrs Golubeva's proposal. It is envisaged to supplement Article 12 with the fifth paragraph in the following wording: ‘( 5) The State shall ensure an early assessment of development for all children between one and a half years of age and three years of age in order to facilitate the timely recognition of developmental disturbances and possible special needs’. This proposal has been partly supported and included 3. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U171	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Golubeva's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 7, against – 43, abstained – 24. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U172	5. – The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Article 24, second paragraph, provides for the replacement of the word ‘interests’ by the word ‘interests’. This proposal was supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U173	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. – The proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 79, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U174	6. - a proposal from Member Linda Ozola. Article 32, in a new wording: "The purpose of extra-family care is to create a sense of protection for the child, to provide conditions for his or her development and well-being, to prepare the child for an independent life in society, while respecting as much as possible his or her individuality and ability and desire." The proposal has been partly supported and included 7. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U175	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal by Member Linda Ozola! Please, let's vote! On – 3, against – 49, abstained – 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U176	7. – The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Article 32 provides for the replacement of the words ‘supporting the child’s efforts to be independent’ by the words ‘preparing the child for an independent life in society, while respecting, as far as possible, his or her individuality and his or her ability and interests’. This proposal was supported by the Commission. I also call on Members to support and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U177	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. – The proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! There is no – 77, not and refrain. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U178	8 / 8 – Legal Bureau proposal. Provision is made for expressing the second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 55 proposed by the draft law as the last sentence of the second paragraph of Article 12 of the law. Supported 3. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U179	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 53, against – 2 and abstained – 10. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U180	9. – also a proposal from the Legal Bureau. The draft law provides for the third sentence of the second paragraph of Article 55 as the last sentence of the first paragraph of Article 11 of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U181	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. – Proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau! Please, let's vote! For – 70, against – no, abstain – 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U182	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – Legal Bureau proposal. Article 1 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission. I call on Members to support them by voting in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U183	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no – 77, not and refrain. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U184	11. – also a proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 2 of the draft law is to be excluded. Supported by the Commission. I call on Members to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U185	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. – Legal Bureau proposal! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 74, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U186	12. - Mrs Golubeva's proposal. It is provided to supplement the transitional provisions by points 37 and 38 as follows: Amendments to Section 11 paragraph 2 of this Law on the evaluation of special needs of all children shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. 38. Amendments to this Law providing for the addition of the fifth paragraph of Article 12 shall enter into force on 1 July 2020.’ The Commission has partially supported and included 13. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U187	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal tabled by Member Golubeva! Please, let's vote! On – 6, against – 38, refrained – 24. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U188	And closing 13. – The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It is provided to supplement the transitional provisions by points 40 and 41 as follows: The amendment to Section 11 paragraph 2 of this Law on the evaluation of special needs of all children shall enter into force on 1 September 2021. 41. Article 12, paragraph 2, of this Law shall enter into force on 1 July 2021.’ Supported by the Commission. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U189	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. – The proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 78, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U190	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the draft law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child (No. 341/Lp13) to support the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U191	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” (No. 341/Lp13) at second reading! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 83, against and refrain from -. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U192	The Commission is asking for a deadline for proposals, 24 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U193	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 24 July this year. Dear colleagues, Members Golubeva, Šteins, Baumane, Agešins and Lībiņa-Egnere are asking to announce an hour-long break after the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards”. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Bureau is going to convene the Bureau's sitting and announce the Saeima's sitting at this time, at this hour's break. Thus, the parliamentary sitting is planned for a break, in which we will consider the draft law related to Latvia's participation in the European Space Agency. We must vote on this. Please call me! We will vote for an hour-long break after the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards”! Please, let's vote! 73, against – 2, refrains – none. Decision adopted. Colleagues, therefore an hour-long break after examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”. We're going on. Draft law ‘Amendments to criminal law’, second reading. Member Juris Jurash is on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U194	Hello, dear colleagues! At second reading, we are looking at the draft law on criminal law (No. 712/Lp13). Three proposals have been received and examined by the Legal Commission. 1. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. It is envisaged to extend the composition of Article 133.1 ‘Infection with dangerous infectious agents’ to include severe consequences as a sign of an objective side. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U195	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. – the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no -69 against and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U196	2. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. It is envisaged to modify the exposure of Article 140 ‘Failure to sanitary hygiene and epidemiological safety’ by replacing the link ‘and’ with a link ‘or’ with appropriate liability for both sanitary hygiene and epidemiological safety rules and by encouraging serious consequences of an epidemic in addition to those already mentioned as objective side-effects. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U197	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no – 71, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U198	3. – also the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns. It is encouraged to increase the sanction provided for in Article 140 by providing for deprivation of liberty for up to five years for a violation of sanitary hygiene and epidemiological safety rules, which is equivalent to the sanction provided for in Article 133.1 on infection with the agent of a dangerous infectious disease. The proposal is supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U199	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about – 72, against and refrain from –. The proposal is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U200	I call on Members to support the draft law on "Amendments to the Criminal Law" (No. 712/Lp13) at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U201	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Law! Please, let's vote! There's no problem with – 80, against and abstaining from – The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U202	Deadline for the submission of proposals – five days... 14 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U203	Thank you. The deadline for submission of proposals is 14 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, second reading. Member Juris Jurash is on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U204	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” is under consideration at second reading (No. 713/Lp13). The draft law is related to the newly supported draft law "Amendments to the Criminal Law". At the Legal Commission, no legislative proposal was submitted under Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I call on Members to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U205	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! For – 79, against – no, abstain – 1. The draft law was therefore approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U206	Deadline for the submission of proposals – five days... 14 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U207	Thank you. Deadline for proposals: 14 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U208	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law ‘Amendments to the Military Service Law’ (No. 739/Lp13). The draft law provides for the abolition of the absolute prohibition of the execution of military services by persons who have been punished for certain criminal offences. Instead, it is encouraged to perform an individual assessment in accordance with the case-law of the Constitutional Court and the problem established in practice. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U209	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law at first reading! Please, let's vote! There is no – 77, not and refrain. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U210	The deadline for submitting proposals is 23 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U211	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 23 July this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U212	Hello, fellow Members, again! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” (No. 740/Lp13). This draft law, like the one just supported, also encourages the abolition of the absolute ban on military service at the Earth Guard for persons who have been punished for certain crimes. An individual assessment has been proposed. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U213	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” at first reading! Please, let's vote! There is no – 77, not and refrain. The draft law was therefore approved at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U214	The deadline for submitting proposals is 23 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U215	Thank you. Deadline for the proposals: 23 July this year. Dear colleagues, we voted for a break, but again I remind you – now the Bureau is meeting. Be ready to meet at the Saeima sitting in 10-15 minutes. Thank you. So there's a record of Members. It's done well. Ladies and gentlemen, please leave the system because the agenda of the next sitting will already be in place. So it's a break. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-07-09-PT13-2104-U216	Dear colleagues, We will continue the remote session of the first extraordinary session of 9 July this year. Members Ribakov, Baumane, Stein, Agešin, Lochmele-Lunova ask for a break until the subsequent decision of the Saeima Presidium on the continuation of the sitting. Please open the procedure section. We can vote. Please call me! We will vote for a break at the remote session of the first extraordinary session of 9 July this year, pending the subsequent decision by the Saeima Bureau on the continuation of the sitting! Please, let's vote! No. 53, no. 5, no. Consequently, the decision was taken. Interruption until decision by the Bureau on the continuation of the meeting Dear colleagues, you will be informed of this decision by means of a text message. It's going to happen in time... on the next sitting and the continuation of the sitting. There's also a record of Members. It's been a success. Consequently, it was suspended until the Bureau's subsequent decision. Thank you all for your work today. ( Interruption)
