ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-18-PT13-2141-U1	Hello, honourable Members! Mr. President of the Republic! Hello, everyone who follows the Saeima sitting! The official sitting of the Saeima on 18 November 2020, dedicated to the 102nd anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia, was opened. The official sitting of the Saeima shall be held in a semi-removable manner. Members are in various buildings of the Saeima, so I would like to start by congratulating the political groups. Hello, the 'Development/Par!' group. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( On the screen, Development/Par!) .) Good afternoon, group YOUNG Unity! ( On the screen, the New Unity Group.) Hello, the New Conservatives! ( On the screen, the New Conservative Group.) Hello, group of KPV LV! ( On the screen – Group of KPV LV.) Hello, National associations “All for Latvia!” –‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’ group! ( On the screen - the NA fraction.) Hello, the Social Democratic Party Group's 'Conciliation'! ( On the screen - AGE.) Hello, the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union! ( On the screen, ‘ZZS fraction space. ’) Good afternoon, independent Members! ( On the screen, independent Members.) The President of Latvia Egils Levits, members of the Saeima Presidium and group presidents are here with me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-18-PT13-2141-U2	Name for solemn address to Ināra Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-18-PT13-2141-U3	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! I Our people are always standing on the sun side, aiming for light, wanting to grow and stand. We have kept our fundamental values as treasure, our identity that gives meaning to everything we do. On November 18, 1918, when the Republic of Latvia was proclaimed, the highest will of the Latvian people was realized – an independent state, freedom to choose its own future, to maintain its culture and language, to be part of the Western political and cultural space. Faith in the ideals helped to win the hopeless battle in the War of Independence. Idealism gave us the courage to get rid of the Soviet occupation and the Soviet Empire, armed and politically violent, to the teeth, many years later. On November 18, we celebrate the fulfillment of our ideal goal, and it is a celebration of the existence of our country and people. It is part of our ancestors' survival, our present and future. It's Latvia. Our choice has always been good for the sun, for the light side – for a democratic and legal state, for the freedom of the spirit and for human dignity. II Dear Members! This year, we have spent many significant events in our country and in our personal lives different from our usual. On 4 May, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the restoration of independence. Unfortunately, just like today, Latvia's national birthday is in exceptional circumstances. However, there was a great feeling of commonality, honoring the restorers of the state of Latvia. This year we have mentioned important annual events that have led and strengthened Latvia and its statehood. The centenary of the Constitutional Meeting, the centenary of the signing of the Latvian-Russian peace agreement. We have honored stateman and politician Michael Walter, to reinstate him in his homeland. Miķelis Valters had planned for an independent Latvia well before our country was established. Miķelis Walters – a democracy and a believer of European ideas. One of Latvia's most outstanding visionaries of its time, whose political heritage will hopefully be acquired deeper and wider. There are many achievements that have made nations more proud and a country stronger. These are events that are important for us as a European country and as part of Western democracy. Therefore, we look with great excellence at the important annual events that we will celebrate next year. It will be a commemoration of the 30th anniversary of the January Barricades, when the people protected the parliament, the government, the Latvian Television Buildings and other important objects. It will be a hundred years since Latvia's recognition de iure. On 26 January 1921 our country became a fully-fledged entity of international law. Trust in our values and trust in international law allowed us to return to statehood even after 50 years of Soviet occupation and strengthens the sovereignty of Latvia today. III Honorary Latvian People! In these unusual circumstances, we have learned to use ingenuity, to plan a celebration in a different way, and perhaps to feel the emotional celebration deeper in ourselves. It will take time for us to understand the consequences of our human experience of the challenges we face in our daily lives. In spring, when the pandemic just started, opinion leaders said: “We are like a war!” The threat of the virus. Self-insulation. Revocation of travel. The decline in cultural life. Limiting physical contact. Face cover. Remote work. Whatever we call it, the war against the virus or the fight for life, we are in an emergency situation. And our life of peace has been stopped in part. There are also soldiers in this war. They're doctors. They are the ones who are fighting for victory. They are not allowed to relax because thousands of people look to them with hope every day. Medicals are trying to save everyone regardless of age, nationality, and prospects of recovery. Whether a person believes in Covid-19 or not. Sadly, many have eyes only in the hospital room. Today, on Latvia's national birthday, let's pay tribute to the doctors and doctors, medical assistants, nurses, sanitaryians, anyone who selflessly treats the sufferings every day at the risk of their health. It's a hard fight. But it is victorious. And everyone can give their support. What are we all going to do now to help each other to help society cope with the Covid-19 virus? At the moment, it requires less of us than at other times, at crucial moments for Latvia. Just follow the distance, set limits, wear face mask. Because we need to stop the spread of infection, we need to protect our health and life so that everyone and all of us can return together rather than return to their normal life. IV Friends and Disciples! Although the fight against the pandemic is often compared to the war, this is not a war of weapons. From a national and public safety point of view, the pandemic and the emergency pose a major threat – the spread of disinformation. This has proved to be a grateful moment for the dissemination of false information and conspiracy theories. This is the case in Latvia and many parts of the world, because everywhere people face an unprecedented, difficult to understand situation. We see that false reports are spreading through social networks, attempts to question the decisions made by experts and governments to control the infection are attempts to create chaos. And how? Eighty percent seem to be true information, 20 percent lies, and all this in very light language – a toxic cocktail that stuns and breaks the boundaries. The fall in political capital at the expense of Covid-19 infection can indeed be compared to marodiarism. It is immoral and deplorable to use people's confusion and ignorance for selfish political or even geopolitical purposes, thus threatening their health and life. Thank you to those media every day who work to expose deceptive and misleading messages. True, understandable, reliable information is critically important at this time. V Pandemic time also increases other hazards. The values of our society are being tested. The countries' political resilience and defence capabilities are being seriously tested. By protecting national and public security, we continue to maintain our military vigilance, develop defence capabilities and supplement our resources. Latvia is a reliable member of NATO. Our security is rooted in close transatlantic ties. Latvia keeps its promise to devote two or more per cent of gross domestic product to national defence. We are pleased to welcome the active involvement of NATO partners in strengthening security and defence in the Baltic region. In Latvia, as in the entire Baltic States and Poland, the expanded NATO presence battle groups continue. This is a unique and very strong demonstration of solidarity among allies. Military presence in the region of a strategic partner, the United States, is an important contribution to strengthening our security and deterrence capacities. We have always maintained an active parliamentary dialogue with the United States Congress and thank you for its strong support for the security of the Baltic States. Our deep understanding of the security situation in the region has been demonstrated by both Republican and democratic politicians. I would like to highlight our ally, Canada, and its invaluable contribution to ensuring NATO's expanded presence in Latvia. It is in Latvia that most Canadian military personnel are present outside their homeland. ‘ The sun jumped from the sword” – it calls one of the most popular dance performances of the people. This is the story of the trials of fate, struggle, sacrifice and victories. It is a story with a happy end, but it talks about choice, loss and courage. Let us remember that the sun is in our country's coat of arms. The sun is also a emblem of our National Armed Forces. VI Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Our membership of the European Union and NATO is based on common democratic values, common ideals and strict rule of law. The Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian faith in freedom and democracy awakened the Baltics 30 years ago. Today, we see democracy waking up in our neighbourhood, Belarus. For 100 days now, the Belarusian people have been demanding the right to free and fair elections. We admire the courage of Belarusian students, women and all civil society to stand up for their rights. The Baltic States have unitedly and firmly condemned the counterfeiting of the results of the presidential elections in Belarus and the violence against peaceful demonstrators. We must stand up for even more stringent European Union sanctions against Belarusian officials responsible for violence against peaceful protestors. The European Union's support to Belarusian civil society and independent media is vital. We will continue to support Belarus! At the same time, let us not forget Ukraine! It is our duty to strongly support Ukraine's sovereignty, territorial unity and to assist the country in implementing democratic reforms. Moldova has also made democratic choices in recent elections. A new pro-European President is firmly elected. We must continue to strongly support the efforts of the Eastern Partnership countries for their euro integration. VII Overcoming this pandemic crisis, we see that European solidarity is alive and that it works. Large amounts of European Union funds are invested in the economies of the Member States, including Latvia. Significant support is provided for maintaining employment. It is expected that around 10 billion euros will be available for the restoration and growth of Latvia's economy in the next seven years. We need to understand them wisely and responsibly. Let us work actively with the long-term challenges of implementing Europe's green course and promoting digitalisation! Latvia is one of the greenest countries in Europe and we stand up for ambitious climate policy objectives. They offer a very wide range of opportunities for developing and implementing ever more advanced technologies and increasing economic growth. VIII, honourable Members! We are the first Saeima to work in the new centenary of Latvia. When this term of office was elected, it was stressed in particular that many new Members are coming to Parliament. New energy and new ideas. Perhaps less parliamentary experience, but also less political routine. Those two years have confirmed that 13. The family is able to work in very difficult circumstances, adopt many important draft laws and always keep in mind the value space of our country when making choices. Together with the government, we have done our best to regularise the financial crime prevention system in Latvia and restore the reputation of our financial system. As one of the first parliaments in the world, the Saeima introduced a special technological solution – the e-Laima platform – to ensure full parliamentary work also in an emergency, in a pandemic situation. We have adopted an administrative territorial reform law, which was also difficult – working remotely. We have taken important decisions to strengthen the national language in education, provide tangible social support to disadvantaged sections of society and support families with children. We have decided on important improvements in strengthening the rule of law. Sometimes we make mistakes, but we try to correct them. Parliament's work is aimed at the common good of society and this vector will remain unchanged. The Saeima also stands in front of one of the most important tasks of this year – adoption of the budget, approval of the medium-term budgetary framework for the next three years, as well as amendments to the laws related to the budget. Colleagues, let us work constructively and successfully on the draft budget! This has been achieved in heated disputes, but with the aim of fulfilling the promises made to doctors and educators, of improving social guarantees, increasing the country's competitiveness and fairness in society. IX Latvian patriots! Language and culture are the treasures of our spirit. Every nation understands and understands itself through culture and language. Culture and language maintain and develop the peculiarity of the nation, way of thinking, human contact and philosophical thought. We sing with appreciation the national anthem of Latvia “God bless Latvia!” and it is in Latvian. Our Constitution – the Constitution –, whose centenary will be celebrated in less than two years' time, is written in a laconic, conceptually intensive and beautiful Latvian language. The state language – the Latvian language – strengthens and contains Latvia's statehood together. Since the establishment of the state, we have been supporting the care of a foreign identity, but the common language of communication for all citizens is Latvian. It is based on national principles. During the existence of the state of Latvia there has been no major disasters and destruction of occupation. The loss of the state brought political violence, deportations, denial of its national past, and it humiliated Latvian language and culture, laid it in a secondary, minor role. Eight years ago, the language referendum reaffirmed the trust of Latvian citizens in the Latvian language. But is everything okay now? The language is like a garden that should not be allowed to grow up. The language must be maintained, cherished, and loved. It must be put into the sun. Because Latvian cannot be replaced by anything. Latvian politicians also have to explain their policies in Latvian and speak the state language with the citizens of the country. Now, and still, anyone who calls our country, I call: “Let us speak in Latvian!” X Dear Jews! There are very many talented people in Latvia with great work capabilities, unique ideas. We live in a country with high public security, beautiful nature, good food. We are able to do work that we have done well before and to come up with new solutions. We are creative, striving for excellence, we know how to change up. We have freedom and our own country. We have a clear system of values and we are one another! Let us defend, strengthen and love Latvia! We're strong. We're on the sun! The life of the sun for Latvia! God bless Latvia!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-18-PT13-2141-U4	Thank you to the Speaker of the Saeima. ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-11-18-PT13-2141-U5	Thank you. The official sitting of the Saeima on 18 November 2020, dedicated to the 102nd anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia, shall be declared closed. Happy birthday, Latvia!
