ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I hope that everyone has managed to log in and connect to the e-Saema platform. en. Parliamentary Meeting Security, are Members connected to the e-Laima platform? Yeah. The parliamentary security unit says yes. Dear colleagues, Let us begin the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 26 May this year, which will be held on the platform e-Saema, in accordance with the decision of the Saeima Bureau. According to Article 15 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, the Saeima holds its sittings in Riga and, in exceptional circumstances, may meet in a different place. The norms contained in the Constitution should be translated according to their purpose, spirit of time and possibilities created by technologies, therefore Article 15 of the Satversme allows the sitting of the Saeima to take place in an electronic environment as well. The President of Latvia and the heads of the constitutional bodies of the state exercising legislative power, executive power and judicial power at the meeting of 23 March 2020 acknowledged that, if necessary, the forms of action of the constitutional bodies, institutions, institutions and officials of the state are applicable to the circumstances determined by the extraordinary situation. This also includes remote working arrangements, restrictions on people's direct contacts, as well as advanced activities in the electronic environment and other obligations that ensure the performance of their functions and the performance of their tasks as far as possible. I would like to make it clear that the vote counters checked the provision of the Saeima's remote sitting voting and the management of the debate on the e-Saeima platform. Name of the voter's representative Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I report on the 13th of the Republic of Latvia. Number of vote counters of the Saeima 10, which was drawn up in Riga on May 26, 2020, at 9.30 a.m. On May 26, 2020, in different halls of the Saeima House, as well as in the House of Sittings Votes Rihards Kols, Janīna Jalinska, Krišjānis Feldmans, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Iveta Benhena-Beken, Jānis Tutins and Inese Ikstena checked the provision of the Saeima remote sitting voting and discussion management on the platform e-Saema and admitted that it ensures the authentication of the Member by means of secure identification tools. All seven vote counters have participated in this authentication test; no technical errors or disturbances have been identified. The vote by Members was also examined, using all the voting possibilities, by means of the votes cast on 'yes', 'no' or 'abstention', as well as the possibility of looking at the results of the votes, the compliance of the actual vote of the Member with the system and the overall result of the vote. In this test, no technical faults or disturbances were detected and all seven vote counters were present. An online debate was also examined using a videoconferencing tool, as well as the possibilities for managing the debate, drawing up the list of debates, the possibility of applying for and refusing the debate. All seven voice counters were also present in this test; no technical faults or disturbances were found. With this protocol, voting counters recognise that... shall be used for the further conduct of the sittings of the Saeima. I shall draw attention to the fact that the relevant Protocols, Protocols, 10, refused to sign the vote counters of the Group of the Greens/Farms Union and the vote counters of the Group, although both vote counters participated in all test modes and no technical failures or interferences were found in this test regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Before we look at the agenda for the sitting, I would like to inform you of the most important work on the platform e-Saema. Please talk to the microphone on the portable computer during your speech. Please use the headphones during the sitting. At the time of the adjournment of the sitting, please leave the e-Saema platform. Timelyly return from the break to be able to re-identify on the platform e-Saema, so that the Saeima sitting can continue in time. In order for Members to receive the necessary technical and methodological support when working for the first time on the eEurope platform, the Saeima Bureau decided to hold today's sitting while Members were on the premises of the Saeima but in several halls. Each medicine contains members of the Saeima, who are ready to help with the use of the platform e-Laima. Before the sitting, Mr Pucen wanted to speak about the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Eric Pucen, who wanted to talk about the procedure. ( Pause) So Member Eric Pucken's out of place. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting shall be moved to the agenda. On the agenda – draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Settlements”. On behalf of the committee responsible... Parliamentary Security Division, have you applied to speak about the procedure? And that's it. I don't see who. So Evija Papule, a Member, has applied for the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Evia Papule.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U4	Hello! Thank you. I got the first answer. I see now those who have applied to speak. And I hope everyone sees it. And the other thing. At present, there is one Member present in the Chamber who does not yet have the opportunity to vote on the eEurope platform. And I have a question: how can this Member guarantee his right to vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U5	(I'm talking to someone.) What are we saying? How long – two to three weeks was... Is that so? Dear colleagues, The Saeima Administration informed Members in good time and asked them to apply for an e-signature. It is a choice for Members – to attend the Saeima sitting or not to attend the Saeima sitting. It is the choice of each Member to obtain an e-signature or not to obtain an e-signature. It is not possible to attend this meeting without an e-signature. Please turn on the microphone for Uldis Augulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We have sent a letter from the Saeima to the Bureau requesting that the letter be examined as a matter of urgency and that all Members be given the opportunity to return to the Chamber and to continue the work on administrative territorial reform under the ordinary Saeima regime, as the restrictions do not prevent us from working in this way either. The other thing. Mrs. Moore, what you have read at the moment... Of course, it would be good if it had all been written... and entered in the Order Box... And... Despite having e-signatures... But... One of our Members has technical problems with the computer that is currently under way and he cannot take part in the sitting until the computer is complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U7	Thank you. Please enable Evia Papulei, a member of the microphone, who wants to talk a second time about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U8	Yes, thank you for your answer. And I'm also a supporter of modern technology, and I'm glad that the Saeima has this opportunity. And yet... if a Member who does not currently have the opportunity to attend an electronic parliamentary sitting is present here in person, I believe that the Bureau cannot prevent him from taking part in the vote or to take an active part in the sitting right now (although everyone else has the e-Parliament!) because it is his right – just like everyone else. Once again, I do not want to hinder the implementation of the e-Parliament, I really support technology, but in any case, I think there should be an alternative solution in such exceptional cases as well – no matter how long the Bureau has submitted an electronic signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U9	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Victor Valain, who wants to talk about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U10	Hello, colleagues! I have a point of procedure. Technically, when the current table is submitted... Isn't it, after the Order reel, that the table should be available for at least five days? And has this table not been submitted now... at another time... Is that so? Can we, technically, see? Yeah... I would like to draw attention to the fact that both this parliamentary sitting and the speech by the President seem to indicate that this issue will be assessed at the end of the day... most likely the Constitutional Court will evaluate whether everything has been proper. Therefore, this question is also – when is this table presented? And is all this in line with the Rule of Procedure? That's a question number one. Number two. The question is about our group's colleague, Armand Krauzi... So – could Member Armands Krauze still take part in this sitting? And I think it would be a minute question, maybe a half an hour question... So the Saeima's technical support... he would still have it... because it's really a technical question – why can't... And also on the question of registering the presence of Members to me: how can we make sure in such a regime that Members really listen and are present? I will give you an example of why this technical question is important to me. If I have a debate from the Parliamentary Chamber Tribunal, I see which Members are in the Chamber. And there may be a situation where a Member has put a card... i.e., registered he is, but in the hall he is not. Then I realize I didn't talk to him. On the other hand, in this case, if a person has registered but has left or left... If I have the feeling that this is the majority, how can I make sure of it? This is a technical question. I'd like to have the slightest answer. And, of course, the question is: what happens to those Members who are independent Members? Now I see... I know they're in this room. How do we involve them in the process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U11	Thank you. I will allow all Members to speak about the procedure, and then the Bureau will try to provide answers. Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U12	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! I would like to respond very briefly to Evia Papule, who spoke about the procedure. And my comment would be as follows. Colleagues, I call for a distinction between two different concepts: "rights" and "opportunities". Opportunities have been given to all Members. In turn, the choice to use these opportunities and exercise their right to participate in the Saeima sitting... according to the co-decided technical means provided by the administration... That choice shall be exercised by each Member on its own initiative. We can see now that 84 out of 100 Members have registered in the sitting. I think this is a very good result. The family employs different people, different ages, with different experience in the use of technologies, with different life experience, so I personally regard such a result as very good. We are decisive! E-Saami is operational! Therefore, I call for a transition to work and for important, important issues for Latvian society to be decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U13	Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U14	Yeah... Colleagues! So, when it comes to the procedure, there are two matters of principle. One thing is already pointed out by my colleague Viktors Valainis – that this sitting does not, by its very nature, take place in accordance with the roll of order of the Saeima. In particular, the table for the final reading was submitted on 22 May. However, it should have been available for at least five days and the meeting should have been held in five days' time. This deadline has not been met. That's one thing. The other thing. I would not like to agree that all Members are guaranteed the right to carry out their duties at the moment. We have colleagues, for example, who have problems with their eyesight, who cannot use a computer, who are therefore unable to be on the computer and follow the course of the sitting. No thought has been given to these people! In essence, they are denied the right to carry out their Member’s duties which they have been entrusted with (A sound defect.) ... 84 out of 100 are connected – it can, of course, be called a good result, but... in the case... It is a violation of the Satversme and the law in any option, if all one hundred percent are not provided with the opportunity to participate in the work of the Saeima. So I'm calling for this to be dealt with. And the other thing to think about. If we continue to work here – with headphones when looking at computers – then, I assume, in a few hours, very many will have problems with vision as well... to take this sitting. That would be something that the Bureau should also consider when organising this work, so that these human rights, labour rights, are not violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U15	Thank you. Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U16	President. Dear colleagues, As Chairman of the Group of the National Alliance, I would like to speak on behalf of the whole group and to express my full support for what my colleague Daniel Paviluts has said. In particular, I would like to assure you that every Member has been given all the necessary assistance, all the information and full access to this meeting and to all the issues on its agenda. Consequently, this technological provision has been provided. There are also differences between the members of the Group of the National Alliance in terms of technological preparation, knowledge of communication opportunities, but regardless of which everyone is ready for the meeting, everyone is present and willing to use these opportunities. So whether we choose to take advantage of these opportunities – however, it is a personal choice for every Member, just as if the Saeima meetings are normal, it is still necessary to make a choice to go and take part and to be physically present at the sitting. I just had to use it right now... make a choice to use these options, settle the e-signature and join this sitting. So there is everything that the sitting needs so that we can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U17	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U18	Colleagues! I will ask the Bureau to clarify one more technical question. If emergency sittings... I will not argue that extraordinary sittings can take place on such a platform, but... The President of Latvia had gathered all the highest organs together, and talked about this, but... Questions at an extraordinary sitting... In my sense, and also in the sense of my colleagues, emergency sittings can be called... and it can be gathered in such a format... and can look at issues related to the emergency sitting. Administratively, territorial reform - we look at it as we want - is not a state of emergency. The state of emergency will end on 9 June. In that case, a big question – what would have changed in exactly these two weeks (they are not even really two weeks) so that we... Why are we going to this enormous risk at the moment? The risks are huge for the Saeima itself: what will happen if it loses in the Constitutional Court precisely because we go this procedure today in this way?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U19	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U20	Dear colleagues, You hear me, huh? Dear colleagues, I would like to add a letter from the Group of the Greens/Earths Union. It is only currently registered. In fact, these reservations, which arose at the last moment, in the last minutes before the beginning of the sitting, I also point out that it is not quite a sudden fact that something is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but much more, that we are opposed to a new procedure that is, by nature, consistent (as several representatives of both the executive and the presidental and other branches of power have already said) is fully in line! – both for the needs of the situation, because we are still in an emergency situation, and for modern technologies, which simply improves our ability to participate in the work of the Saeima. When the Order Roll was made, there was no such technology. Now these are, and it is not clear why we should give up on using these technologies in 2020 if lawyers do not see significant contradictions and significant risks for us. Lawyers, Saeima lawyers, have not identified such risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U21	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Uldis Augums for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U22	Yeah... Dear colleagues, Mrs Golubeva, one letter had already been sent out in the morning, and now we have sent it – because one Member has a technical problem with a computer that is not related to obtaining an e-signature or something else. We are doing our utmost to ensure that all Members of our group are present at the sittings. It is true that it is modern and needs to work, perhaps in a different way... But at the moment, the Rule of Conduct roll predicts what it is intended, and I have not seen any lawyer's assessment that it is in line with the Rule of Conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U23	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. ( Insight: “I apply for a procedure... on the procedure to talk!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U24	Thank you. Colleagues! You can see what is currently happening in the Saeima. This debate shows that we are as though in two different worlds – coalition and opposition. The coalition in its arrogance even... not only doesn't listen to any opposition arguments, they don't even hear what is being said. You're talking here about technical security, how good everything is... and that everyone had a timely opportunity... We are not talking about technical security in this case; I am specifically talking about a person who is physically unable to attend such a sitting. You have given him... Is that so? You haven't secured it! This person is currently denied the right to participate in a sitting – his legal right. And the second question I look forward to. I look forward to the answer from the Legal Office – how is it really? If the table, this table that we will look at today, was changed on 22 May, so the final version has only been available on 22 May. Can this sitting be legitimate today, on 26 May? Because, after the parliamentary roll, it takes at least five days to get acquainted with the final version of the table. These five days are not covered. I look forward to answering these two questions. Is it legal that we are denying individual Members the exercise of their rights? And is such a sitting generally justified, is it in line with the roll of order of the Saeima? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U25	Name to Member Artus Neminis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U26	Good afternoon, everybody! Dear colleagues, this is the situation that... In fact, we are in a situation where the will is not in line with power. The power is not in line with the will! Now I'm at the top of the Saeima... voting... That's the sitting room. You see that in the hall... It's full of people! Indeed – so many people have not been here already, I think, for more than two months. And there, at the end of the day, you see... There are people who have come to sabotage this sitting. And I would ask the technical service... If not, then the police or the Speaker of the Saeima... do everything to make technical regulations that are designed specifically to avoid this sound echo path, i.e. sound chain... Because these people have come with computers and spyers... It's all sounding on the thumbs, and it's all going here for the rest of the... We're here, I think about 60 people. And here are four people who, well, specifically... They have a total “amount” (I mean years) of about 120 years... And... Well, so share on four – there's not much... That's the special sabotage that's going on. I want those who watch the sitting on the Internet to see all this. Because one would just say, “On the procedure! For the procedure!’ Dry balance — none. And if we keep going, then... Just the police would take these people out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U27	Thank you. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U28	Dear colleagues, I really thank you for ensuring our epidemiological security; that we can sit away from each other and therefore, in these exceptional situations, we can be sure in a pandemic situation. I would like to inform all Members that your e-mails are available... sent a letter (in accordance with the resolution of the Speaker of the Saeima), which was originally prepared as a response letter to Member Aldim Gobzem; the Legal Bureau prepared it as a response letter containing a statement of both the norms of the Satversme and those of the Parliament's order roll and their consistency with the procedure in which we are currently working. This document is available to you all in your e-mails and you can get acquainted with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U29	Thank you. I closed the debate. Members have spoken about the procedure. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you that Members therefore had the opportunity to obtain both e-signatures and e-ID. And the Saeima Administration has been very active for several weeks in addressing Members and asking them to do the necessary things. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) Members are also provided with Saeima computers adapted to work in the e-platform environment. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) The question was asked about the Members to whom (Dep. Mr Gobzem: “I want to talk about the procedure!” )... who have problems participating in the parliamentary session on the e-platform. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzem: “I want to talk about the procedure!” ) Yes, really... Then there is the request for this Member to turn to the Saeima Administration, and all necessary technical assistance will be provided. This is understandable, and it is also now, I see, being done. Dear colleagues, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “On procedure!” ) A further question was asked about the table provided for today for the draft law on "Law on Administrative Areas and Populations". I have received a reply from the Legal Office that this table has been submitted on 15 May. ( Internouncing call.) So we start sitting. The draft law on administrative territories and settlements is on the agenda for the third reading. For the Commission, Member Arthur Tom Plesh. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzem: 'I am not allowed to talk about the procedure!' (See paragraph 4.5 of this Regulation.)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U30	Hello, colleagues! The Administrative Territorial Reform Commission has prepared for examination in the third, final reading of the draft law “Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”. First, I'll give you a little detail... the joint work on those common matters dealt with by the Commission in this process, since the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission has been set up. We debated the specific draft law within the framework of the Commission for more than 20 hours, we examined more than 800 proposals. For the third reading... Yeah, thank you... For the third reading, this main vision of this draft law is as follows: we offer 42 units of administrative territories instead of existing 119 municipalities. We have examined a number of proposals that change the names of municipalities, as well as a number of issues that need to be addressed in support of cultural and historical communities. But let's all talk about them in turn, let's go through the table of proposals. 1. – Member Valaiņa's proposal to change the title of the draft law to be the "Law on Administrative and Social Areas and Cooperation Areas". This proposal was rejected by the Commission as it provides for a completely different concept of how municipalities organise their management in their respective territories.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U31	(Sound rupture) ... Discussion Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U32	No, I'm not. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U33	So the Member does not want to speak. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U34	Colleagues, good afternoon! I wanted this proposal... Of course, it's... I think it would be better if it were... be considered as the last proposal, because at least those who did not attend the committee meeting would understand more about what they are talking about. So this proposal is intended to change the title of the draft law. The title is now as follows: ‘Law on Administrative Areas and Populations’. I proposed adding the words 'and cooperation', because this draft law offers seven territories... In total, it will therefore be 14 territories in Latvia... Of 42 who in this bill... Not only during the transitional period, but also after the entry into force of the law, there will be a cooperation mechanism that they will have to use every day... I think that such a technical supplement would be more precise about what the law is about. For the law is not only about territories, the law is also about cooperation between territories. At least one third of the proposed versions... I will also propose the fifteenth cooperation area to build... I will talk about these proposals later – where we will touch the capital... But this proposal... I call for this to be supported, as it makes the aim of the bill clearer. And, of course, Mrs. Mourniece, you're purely about the procedure... you answered a lot, but my two questions remained unanswered. How can I be sure of the presence of Members? How much are you listening to me right now? How many Members I am addressing right now? And why do we even look at this bill today? Why do we look at this in exceptional circumstances, in emergency situations, if this draft law has nothing to do with the state of emergency and if looking at this draft law after 9 June had absolutely nothing to do with it? Thank you. Thank you also for the answers you gave before, but these questions remained unanswered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U35	Before going on to the debate, I will answer the questions very briefly. A chance to make sure in person. Yes, we are all in the Saeima's Chambers at the moment – just like last week. Yeah, we're working in the e-environment, but we're in the Saeima. It was Mr Valaiņš who could have been as sure about our presence last week as it was this week. Why have we put the draft law “Law on Administrative Areas and Settlements” on the agenda? Because the commission, which worked on this draft law and completed it at third reading, asked the Bureau to put it on the agenda of the parliamentary extraordinary sitting. This request is granted. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U36	Yeah... Yes, I had applied to talk about the procedure, and I will finish what I... I'd like to say again... I asked, in particular, how legitimate this sitting is. Because, after the parliamentary roll, there should be five days if it's not an urgent question... And this is not an urgent matter! So the documents... the final version should have been submitted at least five days before the meeting. What happened with this final table – indeed it was submitted on 15 May, but then it was corrected – was corrected! –, and the final version was resubmitted on 22 May. So – the final version of this document, with which we are working today, was presented on 22 May! Today we have 26 May. And whatever its virtual reality, it does not reach the order of the Saeima roll of order, that there must be at least five days. So I'm calling for it to be recorded. And if this is not an infringement, I would like the Legal Office to confirm it now, now, accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U37	Thank you to Member Zarin. Colleagues, let's think that in the debate, so... Does anyone want to apply for a debate on proposal 1? ( Internouncing call.) I closed the debate on proposal 1. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) On behalf of the Commission, is there anything to add to proposal 1? Please turn on the microphone for Arthur Pleasure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U38	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add (no further talk) that this proposal for cooperation areas... in the context of the annex to the report by Mr Valaiņa, who would identify a number of cooperation areas to follow... the nature of the objective would be to maintain the existing model of 119 municipalities only by establishing cooperation between these municipalities in certain areas. Consequently, the commission did not go this way and, having understood that we were going to build more municipalities, rejected this conceptual proposal... and a number of further proposals. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U39	Colleagues, we must vote on this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! On – 6, against – 57, abstained – 19. And five Members don't vote. The proposal is therefore not supported. Dear colleagues, To answer the questions put by Member Ivars Zarins, I will repeat, as I said earlier: from the Document Management Unit, the answer is that this table has been submitted on 15 May. ( Internouncing call.) Please keep working. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U40	2. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal. This was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U41	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U42	I would call on the head of the commission and... Do not mislead the Saeima, as was the case with proposal 1. This proposal was intended to change the title of the draft law. And it had no obligation... That's... irrespective of other proposals... it had no obligation to preserve 119 municipalities, it was very specific... specify in the law that this is also about cooperation... As I argued on my proposal... as I already pointed out... in this bill... there are a whole range of areas for which cooperation has been established. This was in no way in favour of maintaining 119 municipalities. Therefore, speak out, please, on behalf of the Commission. Unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to be with you in the same room and to show you how it would be on the normal agenda of the sitting... If the sitting were to take place in the normal way, it would be possible for me to do so. And in addition to Mrs. Mūrniece. Well, the thing is, in the previous two-month regime, I still had the opportunity to see my colleagues. There was this guarantee, though... Maybe these televisions can be switched on again, at least to some extent... Is that so? At present, I can only look at myself, but I do not, unfortunately, see other colleagues; I see only those who speak. But in the past, whatever it was, we used it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U43	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, on proposal 2... Is that so? Colleagues! We have to ball... ( The sound is broken.) Once again... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U44	The proposal was not supported by the Commission. “ But they said they had to talk on a computer microphone! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U45	Colleagues, we will vote on proposal 2. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! In favour – 6, against – 58, abstentions – 19, not put to the vote – 5. The proposal is therefore not supported. Microphone, please, Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U46	3. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal. Its main difference from the current wording is that it would complement Article 1 with an administrative region as an area of administration. During the discussion in the Commission, which was also the case at second reading, the Commission agreed that a separate law would be created for the administration of the administrative regions, which is further mentioned in the draft law. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U47	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U48	Colleagues, on this proposal. That's... These are, to some extent, related proposals – I would say, a chain of proposals that will be here: 3, 4, 5, 6 and... Mr. Budrik's proposal. In principle, they are all on the same subject, i.e. mainly administrative regions. I would, however, call for one of these models to be chosen and supported, because it would in a way also serve as a basis for public administration... As I mentioned in the second reading, it would serve as a basis for public administration to move in a certain direction. Whether it is a zero-level governance model or, in this case, the administrative model of the regions, the choice of which must be made... Proposals... 4, 5 or 6. ... Proposal No 6, which is... I think it has been tabled by Mr Budriķis, but it is Mr Kazinovsky's idea that has been presented. This specific proposal, which I have made, would help to address more the situation that is right in the country... We are very attached to these administrative territories, but we are not sticking to the regulation of the public administration system. Linking the regulation of the public administration system to administrative units would, in my opinion, be the right one, because now fire-fighting, emergency aid, the State Land Service... Well, I can keep that list. There are 30... more than 30 different cards... It is about how public administration – not local government, but public administration! – provides its services. With this, I really offer to make some changes in that direction, so that this planning is in some way consistent. Without such proposals, it is unfortunately its... The daylight will not be seen. And I think the introduction of this reform... There's the right place to do this. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U49	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U50	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to keep on with this proposal. If we do things so serious – we propose to change the structure directly in local governments, we make a reform of local governments, combining them, creating larger ones – then... I must say that, as a rule, three reforms are being carried out. This concerns, first of all, public administration – central government, that is, ministries and relevant institutions. Secondly, in a normal situation, it concerns regional authorities, or regions, either by establishing, transforming or eliminating them. And only the third issue is the implementation of local administrative reform. Unfortunately, it is happening at the moment that it has been chosen... only a third is carried out. It has to be said that the first reform, which took place in 2008, 2009... Two reforms were carried out. The second, regional, level of district municipalities was eliminated and remained with this one... That's why, actually... To conclude, if we do not make all these three changes or improvements at the same time, then its reform is incomplete. Because in fact it's the road that's the easiest way to take this... Only local administrative territorial reform. Before the elections, many parties, especially the new parties, had expressed in their promises that, yes, the number of officials and public administration must be changed, the number of ministries must be reduced, and so on. Unfortunately, this does not happen in practice. Reference is made to the fact that only in the third stage, the creation of larger regions will solve problems related to the balanced development of the territories. Unfortunately, this will not happen! This was also demonstrated by the first reform, which was carried out in the past. However, I would ask Members to support, if not this one, at least proposals 6 and 12, which come from me and from Member Budrik, which point at least to a regional dimension in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U51	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U52	In the Commission, proposal 3 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U53	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! For – 7, against – 58, abstain – 20. The proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U54	4. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal. As Mr Valaiņa said, proposal 4 is similar. It also deals with the introduction of an administrative region and ensuring its administration. Like proposal 3, proposal 4 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U55	Members have not applied for a debate. Is a vote required on this proposal? But we obviously need to vote in favour of all the proposals. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! On – 7, against – 57, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U56	5. – Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal, which also talks about how to create multi-level subdivision units on the territory of Latvia, in which management could be implemented accordingly. Like the previous proposals, this proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U57	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! On – 6, against – 59, abstained – 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U58	6. - Mr Budrik's proposal. This is also about similar issues that we have just been talking about. In the present case, it would also be an obligation to create an administrative area where both the municipality and the State could, within the limits of their competence, carry out the administration. As I mentioned, at second reading we talked extensively about the implementation of the administrative region or the second level of territorial administration, and in the commission we have agreed, and the commission has voted for the establishment in Section 14 of this Law of the establishment of the state and local authorities in Kurzeme, Zemgale, Riga and Vidzeme or... also the administrative regions of Latgale, whose status, as I have already mentioned, and conditions of operation, would be regulated by a separate law. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development also mentioned that according to the task given this autumn, it is expected that this new draft law will be in the Saeima for discussion, where we will also discuss further functions. This proposal, six, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U59	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U60	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I'm Krišjānis Feldman and I wanted to tell you... more generally, to begin with, more rightly, that I would like to thank you for the great work that has been done in this... in this case, the new Conservatives, especially Andris Kazinovskis, who, in cooperation with Uldis Budrikis, have also presented this proposal, 6, and also related proposals in this draft law. Maybe someone remembers that at second reading we are debating... We debated similar issues. And thank you also to all those who supported the strengthening of administrative regions in this draft law. We look forward to the presentation of the related draft law by the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Juris Pūce, where these... where they will be able to see how the administrative regions will actually work, what their functions might be, how they will, now, provide the apparatus with teamwork in each administrative region, requiring local authorities to cooperate, also deciding on various cost-intensive projects in the region. Why this proposal has been... Is that so? Why was it important to submit this to the third reading? Because this debate... Well, you remember that at second reading it was enough... Maybe to the end of such an hasty... the progress of its draft law and we may not have discussed all the issues, so it is excellent that this proposal has been tabled and that we will be able to talk about these proposals. The nature of this is that administrative regions should also be administrative areas within this legal meaning. And I also understand that in the commission... I was not a member of the commission myself. Thank you to the driver for his work. We're... There have been various debates there, and we are now also, in fact, in front of the fact, what is the result of this debate? Personally, I think that this debate in the Commission has been of sufficient quality and Members have so weighed everyone for and against, specifically talking about this administrative region as an administrative area. If we had not tabled this proposal, then this debate would have disappeared at all. I must therefore say once again that I look forward to the presentation by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Juris Pūce, of this related bill, and we will stand up for the interests of the region, for the distribution of European Union funds in favour of the regions. We also want to see changes in the NUTS regions for the next programming period or for the coming – which they now hold... who's not late yet. We want these municipalities to work in the team. But today, of course, we will still hear the views of other Members, but specifically in this proposal, I will agree with the views discussed by the Commission, because I understand that this is the opinion of the Commission, in this case the majority... the opinion of the majority. Well, I'm just counting on the experts' point of view. In any case, thank you once again to our Members who have tabled these proposals and the related proposals. Without them, this debate on these legal details would not be possible. Success in work today and in the coming days, continuing the examination of the ATR! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U61	Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U62	Hello, colleagues! I just wanted to say that this is... This proposal was put forward to guide the debate. And if we hadn't had this debate both on proposal 6 and on proposal 12, then we would not have achieved as much in the related proposal as we could have... what results have been achieved only at second reading. This means that we have achieved more than we obtained at second reading. Thank you to the Commission for the discussion. However, on any vote, as Members of the Saeima will decide, I would like to thank the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Justice and, in particular, the Ministry of Transport, who understood what we want to say – that we also transfer functions from above. But I want to mention, and maybe say, the municipalities that were... Maybe it wasn't so... It was a cake to... when there was this debate to transfer some functions from the bottom to the top... And once again, thank you to the Ministry of Transport, which indeed drafted a very, very large offer that we could already make at regional level. Well, who could better know what paths to make, if not themselves on the spot! Thank you, therefore. I would also like to say that there are many of our ideas in the compromise option in the next proposals, but in the case of Minister Pucem, if this proposal will also be... will be rejected – he will be personally and politically responsible for including all the things that we have spoken to both commissions and sub-committees in the new regulation, which will be developed by autumn. So thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U63	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Once again – the name of Member Viktoras Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U64	(Technical problems.) Oh! Colleagues! It must have gone now if. Yes, on this proposal. Of course, I'm anywhere and... I will support it because now I think there were several people who joined the idea – the New Conservative Party, and the Union of Greens/Farmers also supported it. Let us be honest, as well as this idea was based on various scientific researches, where I think the people involved with the local government system, anyone who understands and appreciates it more in depth... If we talked to university professors who really understand the structure of these local government systems, then we would come to the conclusion that this second level of governance is necessary. In this case, we, Latvia, are now, in a sense, among the rare ones who have the same level of governance. However, did this second-level governance model, as colleagues have hopefully outlined here... I think... I strongly doubt it because it has happened... You, for example, praised the ministries. There is a huge difference between the planning region and the management model of the second level. And this, in my opinion, is what many are talking about, is more than the planning region than the management model of the second level, which would be. Because if we look through... We are going through the functions, so now, I think, if the UK really wants to revitalise this reform and... so that's really the way you're... Mr Feldman, in particular, gave a fine speech here telling me how beautiful it is, but in the end I will not vote for it... However, if you really want to revitalise it, then you should start with public transport and look at what is happening at the Ministry of Transport today – for what time contracts are being concluded and with which entrepreneurs are currently being awarded public transport contracts. The Riga City Council elections are also approaching. Everyone tells so much how to fight Riga's e-card. Currently, the e-card in the Ministry led by Mr. Linkaita will manage a large part of public transport transport in Latvia for the next nine years. I think it's really... and under such conditions, management at regional level at least in the field of transport will be very difficult to manage. The treaties will already be linked to the model that exists. It's going to happen for almost 10 years, colleagues. We need to understand what we do ourselves in parallel with this law. Next thing. For the foundations, of course. We can already see how the redistributions take place. So... Colleagues, you are talking about regions, then look at how the funds are now distributed into government decisions. You can see what decisions have been made in the government in the last two weeks, where and in what proportions funds are divided into regional sections, then you will see that Riga is dominant. That is why I am, of course, calling on my colleagues at this stage... I think this one's gonna stay in words. I do not believe that this will be accomplished in real life. But, of course, I may be wrong. Show me the opposite! Perhaps you should begin to really fight for the regions today, because the actual actions do not coincide with what you are saying. In any case, in the last two weeks, the government has dealt with the money to be redistributed from the European Union's investment funds. In which region will they sit down, colleagues? Put this puzzle on, you'll see a lot of surprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U65	Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U66	Dear colleagues, 3, 4, 5, 6 and a number of further proposals are a further attempt to lay the foundations for the establishment of administrative regions. And all the respect, of course, to Andris Kazinovskis, to his conviction, to insist on this matter. Well, it is time for the creation of administrative regions, the functions of which are to some extent currently carried out by planning regions. This would, in essence, be a good idea if regional authorities were to be involved or, in administrative regions with state participation, public administration in general would be organised and decentralised. There is no one at present. Let me explain why. Effective regional authorities in implementing local reform will not currently be justified in the proposed way. First of all, there's a big... ( Here and in the future.) first level municipalities, which themselves form... function... and they wouldn't have reason to refuse... and to transfer certain functions to the regional level. Secondly, without the delegation of state functions to municipalities, these regional municipalities will certainly not have anything to do. Thirdly, it has not been observed that in our country there would be at least the least effort to decentralise public administration. On the contrary! Only centralisation takes place. In some cases, for example, permanent closures in regions. This was also confirmed by the discussion initiated by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government in the sub-committee on the development of the municipal system on delegation of functions to the regional level. Finally. There has already been an attempt to develop joint local and state-owned regions through regional planning. But it has not been implemented. Firstly, because it was not possible to find a way to ensure that decisions were taken, secondly, to establish a financing model for such a regional administration, and above all because of a lack of political will. There is no reason to believe that the situation would have changed at the moment. One thing is clear, however, is that we need to think seriously about what will happen, what tasks will be carried out by the existing planning regions (as the report prepared by the Ministry does not make it clear) and what will be done to ensure that centralisation does not strengthen and that the first level local authorities that we are currently being created become stronger rather than weaker. As a result, this approach is still... We cannot support this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U67	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U68	So, honourable colleagues! This proposal, and the next proposal 12, means in practice the creation of administrative regions as administrative areas. Why can I not agree with the compromise that administrative regions will be created and that separate laws will be adopted for administrative regions? Because if it's... if administrative regions are not administrative areas, they are practically the same planning regions for which the name has been changed. The Regional Development Act, which regulates the activities of planning regions, is also currently in place. This law will therefore be referred to as the Law on Administrative Regions. And it's over. Nothing will particularly change there, there will be a little addition, and point. What was my plan? These administrative regions are just a tool to balance the development of the whole territory, because we know the huge difference between the regions. In Latgale, Vidzeme, Zemgale, Kurzeme, several times, even three and four times, the standard of living (characterised by GDP) differs from that in Riga. This means that when administrative regions are set up as administrative areas, one of the main functions would be to equalise this standard of living. Then this... This reform makes sense. Otherwise, the claims that only create larger regions – there is no basis for this – have no content. Creating administrative regions would be a next step, which I have said in the past. The next step would be to complement the National Development Plan for this administrative region as an administrative area, including the mobilisation of funding over the next seven years. We know now that we are looking at the Commission for Sustainable Development in particular at a statement... The Saeima is preparing for the NAP. A number of proposals have been made to me. One part of the proposals related to the Covid-19 epidemic... A pandemic... it or else will have to return to this document, the National Development Plan, because living conditions will force it to do so. In the situation... In the tax situation, everything will have changed after this crisis, so once again we will have to look at this NAP or even write a new one. The second part of the proposals was: in the same NAP, the second time looking at including this regional dimension, see already this NAP in the administrative region. Unfortunately, these proposals were rejected and rejected by representatives of the New Unity and Development/About! representatives, supported in part by the National Association. Supported these my proposals to KPV LV, I think the ZZS, and that's it. It shows that, from Mr Puce's side, this compromise proposal on administrative regions and the law they intend to make is a bluff, and cannot be believed because NAP does not appear in administrative regions. I have no reason to believe that. Therefore, I would ask all Members who are concerned about the equal, even development of all the territories of Latvia, especially those representing these regions, but also those of Riga, to vote in favour of this and our future proposals. Otherwise... Otherwise, I do not see the meaning of development in the section in which it is formed. If, let us say, this proposal is not put to the vote, then I do not see any meaning for this reform, which is linked to the creation of a larger region, because there are even more problems that I will say later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U69	Thank you. The name of Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U70	Hello, colleagues! I understand that maybe some kind of bitterness has emerged from the past, that there are some things that have not been done before, have not come... I haven't come to some decisions, but who wasn't our Saeima. We look at this Saeima, which we have done at this time, so far, we have made important decisions. We have openly elected the President of State, we have adopted a deposit system, which has been the subject of more than 20 years of discussion, and we are now also on the eve of a major reform. So in the Commission too, while on the ground and discussing this second level of territorial governance, we see how many different types of needs are needed to realise it. One of the things in this regard is cooperation and implementation of functions in the Riga region. For I think you will agree that it is not normal that, for example, Riga and Pierīga municipalities do not cooperate in a number of issues, as well as Mr Valaiņa noted, for example, with the organisation of public transport. Unlike other developed European countries, this kind of cooperation is happening, and that is what... Well, one of our aspects that we will address in the Regional Development Programming Act, where we will form these administrative regions here. In addition. When the experts discussed how these administrative regions could be better identified, it was also precisely about the framework of the draft law that... if we mark administrative regions in this annex to the draft law, then these are municipalities. Well, I did not see in the discussions in the Commission that colleagues would be prepared to support a vision where we have five large regions, five large municipalities where we elect our representatives and exercise their functions. I think this is absolutely not the way we are going. So, colleagues, I call for this proposal to be rejected. The work ahead will still be to find the best way to re-allocate and implement the functions for these regions. I, too, can thank Andris Kazinovskis for his work both during this commission and for the work of the sub-committee. So, I think, the preparations are already there and we will have only where to turn, to work on the way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U71	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U72	Colleagues! I would also like to say... Indeed join and say thank you to Mr Kazinovsky, he really has more than just an academic (Interinstitutional call.) , but also a practical view of this issue. But what I would like to mention in addition with regard to this proposal. That's exactly what the story is about. One is to tell, and this is Mr. Kazinovsky... I also fully join him in saying that the government has imagined presenting this to the Saeima as a planning... Second level of planning... This rather looks after simply calling the planning regions the level of planning. Why did I criticise this model? Mr. Pleska, you said perfectly that we need to cooperate, but, saying this, you did not support my proposals, where I was also offering Riga cooperation with Pierīga. But you told me it would be somewhere else. If we are talking specifically about the example you mentioned: public transport. Well, here's what I'm saying. Currently, public transport at national level (and it is Pierty)... National planning in public transport... They have already concluded contracts for almost 8-9 years, and I will not tell you exactly how many of these new contracts are there, but they are 8-9 years. I'm basically doing this idea... Basically rejected for 8-9 years. Well, I think there is a place for critics, and that is also why I say why these beautiful words and these really beautiful ideas about what will be and what planning regions will be like, how this second level of governance will be implemented, will simply not happen in life, because the practical reasons will be too great to do so. It won't work. Public transport is an excellent example. So thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U73	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U74	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that, as early as 18 April, the SASCAN parliamentary group distributed an open statement calling for it (A sound break.) ... and to take a responsible decision in the light of the emergency situation and public interest, namely to halt the further progress of the administrative territorial reform, to resume work on the reform of the public administration and local government after the parliamentary elections in 2022, thus leaving further progress on the administrative territorial reform 14. In the family. Our call has not been heard, and here we are here and in the virtual environment we are deciding on the administrative territorial division of our country. All possible shortcomings were pointed out by looking at this draft law at second reading. Nothing has changed in particular, which Mr Kazinovsky has just spoken about. To sum up, it could be said that the reform as a whole is not systemic, the reform as a whole is poorly prepared and is not economically justified. And lastly, this reform has been poorly debated, which was mentioned even in the opinion of the State Audit Office. The only thing I'd like to add... and maybe it will be my last speech in the debate today, because I see no point in saying that... something you can't hear about. The opposition can't be heard. And, as we heard, even a member of the ruling coalition... The CIP is in principle set up in the course of this reform. The only thing I wanted to say to Mr Feldman about the discussion. The main points discussed at the time of the adoption of this reform were not Members; they were municipalities. They were Alsunga, Pergau, Baltinava, Selija, united regions. We are all lucky today that this discussion does not involve tractors with which, 100 points, representatives of different municipalities have arrived if there were no emergency situation in the country. Perhaps that is why we are sitting today in a virtual environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U75	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U76	Dear Members, I cannot agree with Mr Plesh, who says that administrative areas can only be municipalities. The 6th proposal provides for us to “administrative territory – the territorial division unit of the Republic of Latvia in which the municipality and the state exercise administration according to their competence”. I understand that the previous law has been such that only the municipality could have been this administrative territory. However, I want to say a little story. I was with someone who helped the authoritarian regime to be destroyed by the restoration of an independent state. And there were previously the administrations of this state... the Executive Committees as one of the main bodies, say in the territories. Therefore, it was also not claimed that it was self-evident that there was also a possibility for public administration to be a territorial unit. Now it's like... Let us say that the territory of the municipality is defended as the only criterion. That's not true! Regions in many European Member States too... Latvia also had administrative regions – counties – during the first free country. I believe that there is no contradiction here. In addition, Members said that there would be regions of public administration here. No, no! Here are just the framework of the draft law, these proposals that there will be administrative regions as territories. What administration will be like – it will be decided further in the law. So I would ask again, however, to vote and to support if we want a balanced development. There is no other option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U77	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U78	Hello again! I said before that that we will hear a wide range of opinions on whether administrative regions should also be administrative areas or, nevertheless, administrative regions should be administrative regions. Here, too, as the Commission may have done, we have been talking about these issues, and here, too, we could talk a lot more and dare. But my call is that in this case we should probably trust what has been decided on by the Commission because this... whether an administrative region should be an administrative area, however, this debate should be dealt with together with high-level lawyers who are directly aware of the consistency that results from, for example, the introduction of new administrative areas and potential municipalities, and so on. So in this case... I will agree with the Commission's view. But once again, thanks to Andris Kazinovskis, thanks to which this debate took place... The debate was also held at third reading. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U79	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U80	In the Commission, proposal 6 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U81	Please, let's vote! Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Budrik's proposal! On – 12, against – 52, abstained – 20. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, Members Krauze, Vucanas, Reizniece-Ozola, Valainis, Bergmanis and others have asked for a quorum check, but before we leave we should register. Please register the Members! ( Milestones.) (The Sound Break)... is only available on this computer. So the participants... And right now there's registration, colleagues, registration is taking place. 88 Members are present, so it is a quorum. Thank you. Colleagues, break till 4 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U82	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda – “Law on Administrative Territories and Settlements”, hence the draft law for the third reading. For the Commission, Member Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U83	So, colleagues, we stayed on proposal 7. 7. – President of Latvia Egil Levite's proposal. Invites to establish: “For strengthening the common identity of the population and preserving and sustainable development of the cultural and historical environment of the cities and municipalities belonging to the historical Latvian countries – Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme, Zemgale and Selija – are governed by a separate law.” This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U84	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U85	Colleagues, I, too, supported this proposal in the Commission and would call on everyone else to support it. The proposal is good. In general, I would like to see how we could really hold the government... and expect this draft law as soon as possible. But when I vote in favour of this proposal, I want to explain the motivation. I personally do not support this, from the point of view that it does not justify the existence of Selija, the absence of an administrative territory. In any case, I will argue with the proposals for Selia. And this – for historical lands – in no way compensates for the existence or absence of Selija as a separate municipality. This is not the same thing, and it is important to note it, colleagues, in my view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U86	Thank you. Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U87	Dear colleagues, In a press statement following the second reading of the draft law, the President of Latvia said that the draft law still lacks strength to establish the democratic belongings of the population to local communities and to strengthen cultural and historical belongings. In order to change the situation, members of the commission had also been called upon to discuss and to make sure that this issue would still be dealt with, proposals had also been made. Will this President's proposal be able to resolve this, there is no real conviction... If there is an institution (not a new institution) and, of course, funding to realise this good idea. Well, in any case, the Ministry responsible will have to work closely on the implementation of this paragraph. “There is no doubt that the administrative territorial division should be linked not only to the farm, the current reality and vision of the future, but also to historical geography and cultural and historical traditions.” How topical today is it! Unfortunately, this led reform is based on economic and political realities, leaving such a real vision of the future, geography and cultural history. I therefore call for support for this President's proposal, because otherwise there are concerns that this aspect of the reform could be forgotten at all. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U88	Thank you. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U89	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In fact, I do not understand why this proposal refers only to the ethnic "Latvians" and not to the topography "Latvians"... ‘named to Latvia’, ‘named to the State of Latvia’. It seems that due to the cohesion of civil society we need to use the words “citizens of Latvia” and “State of Latvia”. I also do not understand why the proposed regions do not correspond to existing regionalisation. For example, we have five electoral districts, which also includes the Riga electoral district. Riga is not mentioned in this proposal. We also have a planning region in Riga, which includes both the capital and the Pierīga region, where about a million people live. Everyone understands that the Riga agglomeration produces more than half of GDP. And it seems that Riga deserves an appropriate attitude. I am abstaining from this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U90	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U91	Dear colleagues, I think that this proposal is very important, because the fact that we are adopting administrative territorial reform and adopting a new territorial division of services, to administrative management is in no way denying or denying the future that we need to preserve the heritage which is also linked to these historical countries – Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme, Zemgale and Selija. And I am glad that there are also a number of Members of the Coalition... I see Janina Kursīte-Pacule, who... to whom this thing is very close to the heart, to which this history and cultural history is very important. We will certainly follow that law, which will regulate the status of the land of this cultural heritage, is in line with both the need to preserve the heritage and the modern state that protects it. And this in no way contradicts the fact that the administrative division is linked to development, with investments in services available to both infrastructure and citizens. One will only encourage the other. It would be a little funny if, for example, as Tukums develops now, we were to talk about the Zemgale seaside, not about Kurzeme sea villages, but that does not mean that we will not also care about services under modern administrative regulations. One is by no means in contradiction with the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U92	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U93	Dear colleagues, The national association had put forward a similar proposal at second reading, which referred to these cultural and historical regions. We would like to express our thanks to the President of Latvia, who has submitted to the third reading a more precise, complementary proposal, which also goes directly into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, where it is clearly and unambiguously defined that, therefore, “the country of Latvia proclaimed on 18 November 1918 has been established by bringing together the historical lands of Latvia and based on the irreparable state will of the Latvian nation”. In this case, by this separate law, we will be able to define precisely these cultural and historical regions within them and also certain state aid mechanisms that are intended to strengthen these historical regions... Latvian historical lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U94	Thank you. Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U95	Colleagues! This is a very important proposal. It is about historical countries and cultural and historical regions created by Latvians, which, of course, are inhabited not only by Latvians but also by other nationalities. But here is an important historical and cultural successor. Since I believe that this is a very important proposal for the whole law, which opens up a wider context – not only administrative, but also economic, but also cultural and historical. That is why I am calling for support!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U96	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Please turn on the microphone for Arthur Pleasure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U97	Thank you for the microphone. Yes, cultural-historical regions and the care of cultural-historical traditions were one of the rather important edges of which we discussed in the Administrative Commission for Territorial Reform when examining this draft law. And thank you (I would also like to join) to the President of Latvia who... The President-in-Office of the State for this and for the other proposals that have been tabled, which are addressing this issue in such a way, so as to preserve and maintain the cultural and historical values that we have in these historic countries as well as in others that are much smaller territories, such as the Suitia. In the Commission, this proposal, 7 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U98	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. – The President's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 84, against – no, abstain – 1. The proposal is supported. Please turn on the microphone for Arthur Pleasure.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U99	Thank you. Proposal No 8 as well as a series of proposals which here... followed here, referring to Article 4, on administrative territories. Here, I would like to add that the list of national cities was originally set out in Article 4 of the draft law for this large city, or as the commission has supported. While clarifying the text of the draft law, these cities are set out in Article 10, Article 4 is clarified in the Commission's wording, discussing both the proposals submitted by colleagues and the proposals submitted by the responsible ministry. Specific... 8 / 8 - Mr. Valaiņa's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U100	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! 27 for, 57 against, 1 forbid. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U101	Thank you. 9. - Mr. Valaiņa's proposal. This section also talks about the list of big cities. As I have already mentioned, the big cities, or cities, are listed in verse 10. This proposal, nine, was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U102	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 26, against - 57, abstaining - None. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U103	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Valaiņa's proposal. Similar to proposals 9 and 8, we are talking about listing large cities here. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U104	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 26, against - 57, abstaining - None. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U105	11. - Mr. Valaiņa's proposal. Article 4 provides for an additional breakdown of the territory of Latvia in the administrative territories: Riga, Vidzeme, Selija, Latgale, Zemgale and Kurzeme. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U106	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 3, against – 58, abstained – 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U107	Thank you. 12. – Ulda Budriķis's proposal. Related to the 6th proposal (which was rejected by the Saeima) it is planned to supplement Article 4 of the draft law with the division of administrative regions in Kurzeme, Vidzeme, Latgale, Zemgale and Riga. It should be noted that, just like the 6th proposal, when we were debating, this proposal further marks the division of administrative regions into entities that we will still have before us, as we have said. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U108	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U109	As the rapporteur also reported on behalf of the Commission, this is true. This proposal is linked to proposal 6, which was not supported by a majority of the Saeima. But... That's good news. The good news is that we will reach 69 by looking further at this bill. – the proposal of the committee responsible, which reads as follows: Article 14 ‘Administrative regions’. And there are the administrative regions – Kurzeme, Zemgale, Riga, Vidzeme and Latgale – for which we will stand. Good news – the commission has supported. So that I will entrust the Commission in this case, I will support the 69th proposal, but that, given that the Commission has not supported this, the 12th proposal, I will trust the Commission in this case, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U110	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U111	So, at first, I'm going to go to Krišjānis Feldman. There is also a representative in the Commission... was from the New Conservative Party – I. And I did not support that proposal that a compromise be made... This proposal should be supported. So what does it mean – “the Commission supported”? So the Commission supported Development/About! , New Unity and National Association, CPV LV, others – no. This proposal on administrative regions as administrative areas is very important. First of all, if we were to create regions as administrative areas, we would not talk today about neither the Varaklani issue, nor the Kurzeme issue, which concerns Kandava or Tukums, nor, let us say, other issues that have confused these territories, which were initially administrative territories of Vidzeme, Kurzeme, Zemgale and Latgale, when Latvia founded. I'm reminded of this... For example, during Stalin's time Yugoslavia was also divided into different territories, regardless of the beliefs, such as Muslims mixed with Christians, which then created conflicts and great problems. Do Not Create... Without setting these borders at the moment for our administrative regions, without creating these territories as an administrative one, we are actually putting our country at a certain risk (it is already national security!) : creating larger districts, reducing the number of members of the municipality. I just want to remind you: reducing every Member - that is reducing democracy. Then we should remember: we actually prepare soil with a specific 40... how much there... two municipalities. And the aggressor will not have a problem, say, yes or no, if necessary, to take our country if there is an opportunity to do so. What are we doing? Without creating these administrative regions, we are further weakening. We try to weaken the identity, we forget how the country of Latvia developed. Forget about three of these... At the time, the inhabitants or regions of the country formed this country. Everyone with his own identity, even with faith and with his own... Let's say, a lifeline. Now we want to deny all this. We want to be globalized. We don't know what we want. I still stand by my own. I call on all Members to vote in favour of this proposal, particularly those from the UK. That is our proposal. If you don't vote... Then you will vote on some proposals, some mystical Commission proposals, not on our own proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U112	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U113	Colleagues! Yes, on this proposal. I think that's the place. As I called everyone back (and I will do it again – today and how long we will see it), so 2009 – previous administrative territorial reform. All pending cases, postponed for an indefinite period, have, in principle, not yet been executed today. This proposal clearly provides for the introduction of administrative regions. Although this is Mr Budrik's proposal (technically tabled), we know clearly that it has been prepared by Andris Zazinovskis, who, of course, is not only a theorist on municipal affairs, but also a practitioner. I could say that three professors, one doctor, a doctor of economics join this same proposal, which last summer... Last summer, together with several rectors in joint conferences... Finally, he finished his work on the development of the municipal system and came to the same conclusion, which is reflected in this proposal, and called for it to be launched. For some reason, we are doing the opposite. We start with territories and end with them, and then we say, "After that we will talk about regions." The President of Latvia as well... In any case, but on this issue, the President of Latvia indicated in a letter addressed to the Saeima that it was necessary to start with the... directly with big questions, with regional issues. So what we have... Zemgale, Latgale, Kurzeme... Let's start with these questions. Next question about what... how this process could evolve. At the moment, I would call for this proposal to be supported. There's nothing crazy about that. In any event, in the draft law, it will immediately show that there are these administrative regions – the land. Of course, this affects the annex. But without even changing their attachment, this would be the right approach – to start from this end, to talk about the functions because... I do not want to be a final pessimist, but at the same time I am reading the information reports that are being prepared for the government. The things that Mr Kazinovsky is talking about there do not appear in the law of local governments, anywhere, it does not appear that something that is mentioned will actually come true afterwards. Let me give you a concrete example of the reforms where these ideas are being implemented, and this example, I would say, Finland. Finland, in my opinion, is an excellent example. They implemented three reforms at once in the context of administrative territorial reform. So, territorially, administrative, educational and health reform. Three reforms at once, and the reform of their territories has been divided into levels: what the zero level is doing by the second level. Well, they chose the zero and the second level (the zero and the first level that we have at this moment's level). This was the perfect way to implement administrative territorial reform. We implement reform, divide territories, tell stories about future platforms and change nothing in functions. It's such a huge, huge... Well, how's that... Macarone Warming... I don't know how to call it quieter, but now, at the end of the day, nothing changes. Only the changed boundaries change. No systemic changes. If there is no systemic change, then there will be no change either, and this reform will not bring the desired results that so many expect, so this proposal really reflects a very large amount of research work and years of experience that has really been done... There are not many municipal experts in the municipalities of Latvia, but now all I know are attached to this proposal. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U114	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U115	Well, I understand that Mr. Valaiņa has had this opportunity to speak to experts at the Latvian Academy of Sciences, but I also do not deny that I have known the consultants with whom I tried to clarify certain issues. And these consultants... I can name it: Professor Stanislav Keish, who has been dealing with these issues with me since 1996, and a second consultant, with whom I have also agreed if I need to, is Professor Maris Puķis. Then I would like to say that these administrative regions... They actually solve a great many issues, including public administration. That is something I have already said: it is not taken into account either. But if it goes deeper, the administrative regions in fact serve the long-term development of the country, as is the case in the neighbouring countries, where there is this regional development and European Structural Funds resources directly flow into the regions, the countryside through the administrative regions or these administrative areas. This is very important. If no administrative regions are formed as areas, then what are they? These are planning regions, they have small functions and... and also, let us say, they have little sustainability and are not reflected in the National Development Plan or any other programming documents. However, I would ask Members to think again, because building up these regions is a serious consequence that we will feel in five, six, perhaps eight years. And if we... Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U116	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U117	As I said, I am calling for support for Amendment 69 when we reach that point. But it is interesting here that it is as if several Members from different political forces support the same proposal as if it were the same, but the decisive factor is probably the motivation to do so. I have no doubt that Andris Kazinovskis is in favour of regions and is fighting for regional development. But why Victor Valainis does it, I don't understand, and how do we go with them... We know very well about regional development, especially where the fisheries sector is. That's why it makes me think there's some legal nuance here, and I'm not a lawyer, I'm simple... an average person, an economist who is currently a member of the Saeima, and therefore I have to trust the opinion of the committee in this case. I also invite others to trust it and understand why Viktors Valainis is fighting for this. That seems suspicious to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U118	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U119	I suspect to the full Mr. Feldman: we need to listen to what I'm saying and, in principle, to the same proposals... Similar in nature, but just about the same – since the second reading at least 30, including several in this bill, on which I simply released a debate in the past. As I said, there were some... three in a row went (need to look) exactly on the same subject. The question is, in my view, how it is worded is secondary, that the idea itself is supported and presented immediately. In this case, you do not trust the experts, but do not listen to the experts themselves, especially in the expert who is delegated from your group to this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U120	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U121	Yes, I also want to respond to Mr Feldman why Viktors Valainis and ZZS want to support this proposal. This is because the ZZS, and also Viktors Valainis, represent a political force that is concerned with regional development. Why have regions not made economic progress over the years as they would like? There is, in my opinion, a fairly clear answer. In Latvia, political power has been at the heart of those people who, concealing themselves or imposing various warms for themselves different political ideologies, have actually been neoliberal in nature, who believe that Latvia is only Riga, who follow Rungaiņš theory, that it is high time for those who have not yet managed to move to Riga to do so, to clump the suitcase and to go to the capital city. What they don't understand – if a person stacks a suitcase, then it won't be Riga, it's London or any other city. I think it is still high time for reform, not to forget that Latvia needs balanced development, not monocentric development, to correct the mistakes that we have made over many years, and that, despite the fact that the National Development Plan is talking about polycentric or even balanced development of the country, half of the country's economy is in Riga precisely because regional development has been in words and less work. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U122	Thank you. Name to Member Uldis Budric.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U123	Yeah, hello again, colleagues! Well, it's very difficult to listen to the ZZS because... Well, you were at simply absolute power for a very long time. Where were you faster? You didn't set up any reforms at all, including... which coincides with the regions, including even the first level. Let us not even talk at regional level. Therefore, please do not return to such rhetoric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U124	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U125	Hello! It is probably time that we made a conceptual point about the regions, so that we do not see that the Group does not care about regional development by voting with its abstentions. On the contrary, precisely because we are concerned about regional development, because we are concerned about the outlying effect which could be one of the consequences of this reform, we abstain from voting on all the points that affect the second level. Why? Because we have repeatedly asked questions about how these regions will be managed: will they be... they will be elected, local government-like institutions or something appointed by the government itself, and regions will be managed by people who are like the governors of the Russian Empire. There is still no answer, because there will be a separate law that will determine it. But as long as this law is not and is not clear, these questions have not been answered, we cannot vote differently from a abstention, because that would mean that we are voting for something that is not yet clear, which is not decided... and how it could be decided. We see at the moment that a number of laws are being adopted on the crisis situation, when opposition proposals are being ignored, despite their logic and constructiveness. This time we will really be constructive and, until all these questions have been answered, we will be voting with abstentions. Of course, by supporting regional development, of course, by supporting economic benefits in public administration, but realising that this reform is not complete. It is therefore not possible to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U126	Name to Member Uldis Augums.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U127	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Speaker of the Saeima! I like to hear that we have young politicians in the Saeima who still don't really have a mother's milk on their lips in politics, but they are already the biggest specialists in the field of municipalities, without working in municipalities for any time. The STECF has never opposed the reforms. The CFP has always been about reforms, but reforms that have been thought out, that are logical and that can then be put into practice, that bring the state, local authorities as a whole, growth and potential for the population to develop, so that this service can be achieved in any... at any place of appropriate quality. Dear colleagues, There is probably no point in talking to you about proposals that you don't understand, because that's the saying: I'm not a specialist, but I have a point of view. Dear colleagues! First understand what this is about, and then speak in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U128	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U129	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say, also by referring to what Mr Feldman said, in his proposal 69, that a separate article has been made available by the Commission, where we determine the implementation of the administrative regions, how we implement them, and the specific areas in which they will organise their administration. This proposal, 12, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U130	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Budrik's proposal! Please, let's vote! To - 10, to - 57, to - 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U131	13. - Mr. Valaiņa's proposal. It is envisaged that Article 4 should be supplemented by a point stating that the administrative territories are also associations of municipalities and that these parish associations could be granted municipal status by the municipality council. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U132	Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 59, abstained – 21. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U133	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Valaiņa's proposal. It is planned to add parish and city associations to the list of administrative territories, which could also be granted municipal status by the municipality council. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U134	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 1, against – 58, abstained – 20. The proposal is not supported. Please turn on the microphone for Arthur Pleys!
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U135	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Valaiņa's proposal. Article 4 provides for a number of lists, including, which we have already decided, the list of large cities, as well as a separate classification – as large cities with municipalities and municipal cooperation areas. As I said, the city of the state... The list of the big cities is set out in paragraph 10, but the commission did not agree to carry out a long discussion... make a classification indicating the major cities with the area of the municipality as separate units. This proposal, 15, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U136	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U137	Colleagues, I did not want to debate this proposal, but I wanted to draw attention to the fact that when we were working... Currently, two tables with a number of different proposals are available. I wanted to pay attention until there was a misunderstanding. If we look at the Saeima's working document, which we follow, there are 377 proposals, but if we go to the Saeima's website, where the agenda is published, and we go to the table of proposals, there are 366 proposals. It certainly makes it difficult for those who try to follow (I have just checked) and for our work (for those colleagues who did not open the table in the basic document). I would very much like to make a mistake if this is the case, but now... I have just checked this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U138	Thank you to Mrs Goldberg. We need to check this information. Technical break for 10 minutes. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U139	... ( The sound is broken.) sitting after a break. The name's Arthur Tom Plesh.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U140	Yes, colleagues, so once again specifying that no misunderstandings arise, with... what we are now looking at. We are currently working on document No. 2521A. According to the Saeima's website, 377 proposals are being examined at third reading. The eEurope system also shows a draft law on the agenda... the draft law with which we are working, which also includes 377 proposals. This is therefore document No. 2521A, with which I explained, we are now working to prevent confusion or misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U141	Let us continue the debate. Please debate proposal 15. Has one of the Members applied for a debate? So the name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U142	Yes, colleagues, to this question, since it is here that... on this point, 2521A, then the question tabled by Mr Zarins, I think, is still topical, but not about it. I am more about this proposal. What goes through the bill... Unfortunately, there is no real clarity, but I think we will talk about it. Go on. What's my... I'm worried about one question – then what exactly will Valmiera be? Because Valmiera's in this place... And then what exactly will Ogre be? What, then, will Jacob be? Because here was an attempt to define the form of an administrative territory with a rural area, with a municipality. Here a number of Members had tabled it. Everyone's got their visions. Here, I know, Mr. Asheraden had submitted. But in this terminology somewhere, I think it makes sense that the status of the state town really makes you something... In any case, lets you be treated in any way, but you should be encoded. Will we do this through the debate when there will be the next proposals that we will talk about... Specifically on Valmiera and Jēkabpils, but this should be done because this proposal was an attempt to do so. I did not put it to the vote, but this... I hope you understood: I... meaning that, for example, Ogre is not just a municipality, but it is a municipality with the city centre... It has to be regulated in some way, because it is now that we have towns and regions. We don't have a municipality with the city. So there is either the city or the municipality. But in practice the situation has developed (also at the stage of the draft law) that there is a state... the novads of Aizkraukles, Well, there is really no clarity, but perhaps in some way we could argue with these proposals, so that at least there is some point that is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U143	Thank you. I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U144	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to clarify this breakdown of how the Commission came to the decision to support the list of national cities in Article 10, consisting of 10 cities. Here two things need to be distinguished: there are settlements and there are administrative areas in which the municipality exercises its administration. In Article 10, we have defined settlements, i.e. these types of settlements, or types of settlements, as national cities. In the annex to the draft law, we have listed certain territories, certain municipalities, where the specific administrative territorial structure implements and implements management, and they can be different. Next in the debate we also have on each particular... We'll get there. 15. proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U145	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 3, against – 57, abstained – 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U146	16. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal. A number of proposals have been brought together in a similar way, as has been mentioned by that Member in previous proposals. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U147	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 4, against – 57, abstained – 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U148	17. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal. Similar 16. – his proposal, but offers a different list of major cities. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U149	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no – 55, abstain – 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U150	18. - A proposal from Member Arville Asheraden. Article 4 provides for such a more balanced breakdown that we divide the big cities into three segments: the big cities, the big cities with a local area or the big cities with a functional territory, and of course the regions. Discussion on proposal 18 and the proposals below (up to 22).), its idea was broadly integrated 22. – the Commission proposal. This proposal was partly supported by the Commission and included accordingly 22. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U151	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Member Asheraden's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 2, against – 58, abstained – 14. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U152	Thank you. 19. - Mr. Valaiņa's proposal. There is also a similar breakdown as in proposal 18. It was also partly supported and included in the Commission 22. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U153	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! No. 18, no. 58, no. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U154	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Budrik's proposal. Provision is made for this Article 4... Administrative areas are divided into two types of administrative areas: major cities and districts. This proposal was also partly supported and included 22. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U155	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Budrik's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 14, against – 61, abstained – 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U156	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It was also partly supported and integrated 22. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U157	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! ( Internouncing call.) ( The sound is broken.) ... 9, abstaining: 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U158	Thank you. We have reached the 22nd proposal, which is the proposal of the committee responsible and provides for the wording of Article 4 which provides for administrative territories in the territory of the Republic of Latvia as territories of state-owned municipalities, as well as territories of municipalities. Here... In one of the last sittings of the Commission there was such an active discussion on how to better define and determine what regions are, and we came to the wording that we need to define that we have municipalities in Latvia and not just municipalities... where administration is exercised in order to eliminate any kind of potential dispute or disagreement in the use of terms which may also refer to these cultural and historical regions. In particular, in the present case, we noted that the municipalities were also implementing the administration. This proposal was supported by the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U159	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. – the proposal of the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U160	23 The proposal put forward by Member Viktors Valainis concerns administrative regions and proposes to define them in Article 5, but, as has already been discussed before, responsible... Article 14 lays down the definition of these administrative regions by the Commission responsible. This proposal has been partly supported and included as appropriate 69. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U161	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 2, against – 60, abstained – 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U162	24. The proposal put forward by Mr Valainis, the Member, seeks to define and define the areas of cooperation between municipalities and how these areas of cooperation fall within the structure of the administrative territory, and proposes to define in an annex to this draft law what is then the territories of these municipalities... the areas of cooperation between municipalities should be. It should be noted here that, in line with the proposals in the Annex, which would determine the areas of cooperation between municipalities and the municipalities which form part of them, the existing division of 119 municipalities is based on the fact that the existing arrangements are not altered – the extent to which the municipalities organise their own administration in their territory. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U163	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no – 60, abstain – 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U164	25. The proposal put forward by Member Viktors Valainis concerns the determination of the status of the big city and the fact that the Saeima grants this status to a city with a population of over 25 thousand inhabitants... and a number of other criteria. In this case, it must be said that the Commission rejected the substance of the term ‘major city’. We have replaced it with a "national city", and in this case, too, we have not agreed on this most balanced mechanism in the Commission on how some kind of criteria could be set. Consequently, proposal 25 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U165	So we are starting a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U166	Colleagues! A fundamental proposal, in my opinion, and its main relationship... is more related to the return of a criterion to the law as such. I think what is mentioned here – the big city, the republics or the public city – it has no meaning, because next comes a proposal that... on which we will vote – on the replacement of the state city throughout the law and the whole draft law. That, I think, would not change anything very much. However, I call for this proposal to be supported. We will also continue to talk about proposals regarding the current parishes of Ķekava, Ādažu and Mārupe, about their automatic transition to city status. And in this case, this proposal would mean... and, in my opinion, it would also be the right way to go, as is the case with the German authorities, that this mechanism has been integrated if the city or municipality... the city or the parish reaches a certain level, then this is how to say... then automatically acquires the status of the state city. And let's have some touch criterion with which, however... that there is not only a political criterion, but there is also another criterion. That is why I would call for support. And, as I said, technical clarification will be introduced by the Saeima in one of the next votes, where there will be this proposal on the status of the state city... replacement of the name throughout the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U167	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so? Proposal No 25.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U168	Yeah. 25. proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U169	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 7, against – 61, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U170	The proposal put forward by Mr Valaiņa concerns the way in which the Saeima grants the status of a large city with a rural area. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U171	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 8, against – 60, abstained – 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U172	The 27th proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņa is a technical proposal which replaces the word ‘rural municipality’ throughout the draft law. It was partly supported and included in the Commission 29. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U173	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On - 26, against - 60, abstaining - None. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U174	The 28th proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, is provided for in Article 5... Article 5 shall be replaced by the following: establishing that it is possible for the municipality to form associations of the municipality. For editorial reasons and in order to make the draft law more readable and transparent, a proposal from the commission responsible for Article 5 was drawn up. And accordingly, 28 this proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 29. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U175	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! On – 21, against – 65, abstained – 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U176	Thank you. Accordingly, 29 is the proposal of the commission responsible, which provides for Article 5 to be formulated in the form of a territorial division of the district. And this proposal also includes provisions from previous applicants, which have been partly supported. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U177	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. – the proposal of the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No. 88, no. 1, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U178	Thank you. We have reached a discussion on Article 6, which provides for the establishment and amendment of administrative areas. 30. the proposal submitted by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, provided for the exclusion of the first and sixth paragraphs of Article 6 from this draft law by changing the numbering accordingly. This proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 43. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U179	Please call me! We will vote for 30. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! For - 18, for - 56, for - 10 abstentions. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U180	Thank you. 31. the proposal tabled by Member Viktors Valainis is essentially similar to the first paragraph of Article 6, but its main difference is that it provides for the addition of the text of this draft law to the cooperation areas of local authorities, which was previously rejected by the Saeima. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U181	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 1, against – 60, abstained – 26. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U182	The proposal put forward by Mr Valaiņa provides for the definition of how the status of administrative territory is determined for an association of municipalities or an association of municipalities of municipalities. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U183	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 1, against – 61, abstained – 25. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U184	33. the proposal, which had also been tabled by Member Viktors Valainis, provided for the words ‘limiting’ in the second paragraph of Article 6 of the draft law to be replaced by ‘limiting description’. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U185	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! Thank you. For – not, against – 60, abstain – 24. The proposal is not supported. Dear colleagues, It's time for a 30-minute break. Please, we have to register. Quorum check, please! A quorum check shall be carried out. 92 Members are present, so there is a quorum. Thank you. Interruption until 6 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U186	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. The name of the commission responsible shall be that of Member Arthur Tom Plš.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U187	Thank you for your word. So we're going on with the bill. We stayed on the 34th proposal tabled by Member Viktors Valainis. It provides, respectively, for the establishment of the boundaries of the areas of cooperation between these municipalities to the Cabinet of Ministers. This proposal is also, therefore, in a way different from the Commission's offer. Above all, the main difference is that here too the right to amend municipal cooperation areas is highlighted and mentioned. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U188	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no – 44, abstain – 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U189	Proposal 35 submitted by the environment (Sound interruption) ... Thus, the 35th proposal submitted by the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce provides for the updating and determination of the status of the administrative centre, village or city, as well as the procedure for updating the administrative territory and that it will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. This proposal has been partly supported and included in 43. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U190	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! To - 17, to - 47, to - 13 abstentions. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U191	36. The proposal tabled by Member Viktors Valainis also relates to these proposals relating to the area of cooperation between municipalities. In this case, this specific proposal would refer to the way in which the boundaries of the parish and the procedure for updating would be determined, of course, also in Mr Valaiņa's offer – the areas of cooperation between municipalities. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U192	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – not, against – 55, abstain – 24. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U193	37. The proposal tabled by Mr Valaiņš concerns the way in which the changes, mergers or divisions of the boundaries of the administrative territories are to be assessed and taken into account. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U194	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 37. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no – 57, abstain – 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U195	38. The proposal put forward by Member Viktors Valainis concerns the way in which the boundaries of the administrative territory can be modified and what can be done. The main difference from the version prepared by the responsible commission and supported by the second reading is that Mr Valaiņa suggests that the boundaries of the administrative territory may be modified by the municipality. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U196	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 38. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 1, against – 56, abstained – 24. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U197	The 39th proposal tabled by Member Viktors Valainis also concerns the way in which the boundaries of the administrative territory can be modified by the Cabinet of Ministers. In this specific proposal, there is a specific list of where the big cities can do so... the major cities with the area of the municipality. But, as we have already rejected the related proposals and part of them were partly supported in the Commission proposal, similarly, this proposal has been partly supported and included in 43. – a proposal from the Commission, which deals with the terms and conditions for amending the boundaries of the administrative territories.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U198	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - Members Asheraden and Valaiņa... Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 18, against – 57, abstained – 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U199	40. the proposal tabled by Member Arvils Asheradens is an ideal one similar to the previous proposal. And it was also partly supported and included in 43. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U200	Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - Member Asheraden's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 15, against – 57, abstained – 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U201	41. The proposal submitted by Member Viktors Valainis provides that if the administrative centre of the municipality is established in the territory of another municipality, the municipality may, when submitting the proposal, encourage changes in the location of this administrative centre. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U202	Please call me! We will vote for 41. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 2, against – 58, abstained – 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U203	42. The proposal submitted by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, provides for the addition of the seventh paragraph of Article 6, with the words ‘order’. I am sorry, after the word ‘order’, with the words ‘and conditions’. This proposal was also partly supported and incorporated in 43. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U204	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 42. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! For – 20, against – 52, abstained – 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U205	Proposal 43 is a proposal from the responsible commission, which provides for Article 6 to define the boundaries between the administrative areas and the territorial breakdown units of the municipality, as appropriate. This proposal and this article define, in a complex manner, how the boundaries of the administrative territories are to be defined and delegate a number of responsibilities to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine how these responsibilities are to be carried out accordingly. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U206	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 43. – the proposal of the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! There is no concern about - 83, against and refrain from -. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U207	44. The proposal put forward by Member Viktors Valainis provides for the addition of a new article on the capital city of Riga, which would set out, so to say, special powers in the capital and how the capital would operate in the future, which would define a number of activities, how and what the Council would coordinate with the Cabinet of Ministers (e.g. the urban development plan, the annual budget of the city and other important things). A wide-ranging debate on this issue was held within the Commission. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development mentioned that this issue is subject to separate versions of the law “On Local Government”, as well as, as I mentioned earlier, when discussing regional development planning law, which will define functions for administrative regions... Specific cases will also be discussed here how the capital will cooperate with the Municipality of Pierīga in its metropolitan area. Consequently, this proposal did not receive any support in this draft law, in the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U208	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 44. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 1, against – 57, abstained – 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U209	Thank you. We come to Article 8 of the bill on cities and see the 45th proposal by Mr Valaiņš. The first paragraph of Article 8 shall read as follows: ‘The capital of the Republic of Latvia shall be Riga’. It has to be said that the draft law already provides for this type of regulation and conditions, as well as in this case the Commission, bringing together all opinions, proposals and debates, formed its own – the commission responsible, which you will see a little later. But this proposal, 45, was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U210	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Dace Bluke.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U211	No, I... ( Not clear.) I don't want to, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U212	Let us therefore vote. Please call me! We'll vote for 45. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! On – 1, against – 57, abstained – 24. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U213	46. proposal by Member Viktors Valainis would provide that urban status of the municipality could be granted to settlements with at least five thousand permanent residents. Both at second reading and third reading we discussed this, so to say, the threshold from which the status of the city should be determined for the existing areas, but the 46th proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U214	Please call me! We will vote for 46. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! Please, let's vote! For – 1, against – 56, abstained – 25. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U215	The proposal put forward by Member Arvils Asheraden also included Article 8 concerning cities in the wording, which would include a number of criteria to determine what is a large city, which is a large town with a local area, which is a large city with a functional area, as well as a population criterion for the status of large cities and municipalities. As we agreed in the Commission that we did not separate this large city with a local area or functional area such as such administrative units or functional units, this specific proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U216	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 47. - Member Asheraden's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no – 60, abstain – 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U217	48. the proposal submitted by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, seeks to clarify the text of Article 8 mainly by establishing the national cities and their lists in this Article 8. As I said earlier, Article 4, on which we discussed initially, where the existing text and structure of the draft law included a list of national cities, has been moved to Article 8. This proposal was partly supported and included 49. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U218	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! Please, let's vote! For - 18, against - 52, abstained - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U219	Thank you. We come to the 49th proposal, which is the proposal of the Commission responsible, and to Article 8, which is for cities and is expressed, as appropriate, in the wording shown in the table of the proposal. The cities of the country (and they are Daugavpils, Jelgava, Jēkabpils, Jurmala, Liepaja, Ogre, Rēzekne, Riga, Valmiera and Ventspils) are listed accordingly, as well as the towns of the municipality are set out in the Annex to this Law. In the Commission, this proposal was supported after a long discussion.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U220	Please call me! We will vote for 49. – the proposal of the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! For – 80, against – 1, refrains – none. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U221	Thank you, colleagues, for your support. 50. – the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which provides for clarification of the first paragraph of Article 9, that the status of the village shall be granted and repealed by the municipality council in accordance with the procedure laid down by laws and regulations. This proposal was partly supported and included 55. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U222	Please call me! Let's vote for 50. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! On – 17, against – 53, abstained – 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U223	Thank you. 51. – Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal that, as regards the villages and the time when the villages can obtain the status of the city... This threshold is reduced from 5000 inhabitants to 2000 inhabitants. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U224	Please call me! We will vote for 51. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! No, no, no – 57, abstain – 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U225	Thank you, colleagues. 52. – Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal, which also talks about how villages can obtain city status. And in this case... We discussed in the Commission both at second and third reading... In the Commission's view, it is rational, however, to impose it as a mandatory obligation than... than... unlike what might be desirable. Because when you look at these specific cases where... where are the villages right now... However, the population here is considerable... and the provision of services to citizens in an appropriate manner and of quality. In the Commission's view, it is reasonable to maintain that this is, however, a mandatory obligation that, at a time when the village reaches the threshold of 5000 inhabitants, the limit of the permanent population, they have... become a village to the city. In the Commission, proposal 52 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U226	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 52. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! On – 1, against – 57, abstained – 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U227	Thank you. 53. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. And 54. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal. They are identical and provide for the deletion of the fourth paragraph of Article 9. These proposals were supported. And the sound is broken. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U228	Colleagues! In this system, we are voting on each of these proposals. Although the opinion of the Commission is similar and the proposals are identical, we are voting in favour of each. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 53. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! On – 62, against – 15, abstained – 3. The proposal is supported. And 54. – Member Valaiņa's proposal, which is identical. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 54. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! On – 67, against – 7, abstaining – 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U229	55. – the proposal of the committee responsible, which provides for... clarify Article 9... in the case of villages... This was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U230	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 55. – the proposal of the committee responsible! There is no concern about – 79, against and refrain from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U231	56. – Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal, which is also related to his previous proposals concerning local government cooperation areas. In this case, the addition proposed by him would regulate the way in which the names of the administrative territories and of the territorial subdivisions of the municipalities are drawn up. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U232	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 56. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! For – 1, against – 59, abstained – 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U233	57. – Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal, which discusses the way in which names are awarded to parish associations. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U234	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 57. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! On – 17, against – 57, abstained – 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U235	58. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Jurs Pūce, which, by its very nature, brings together two articles of this draft law – Article 11 and Article 12 – thus making the draft law simpler. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U236	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 58. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! 81, against – 2, refrains – not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U237	59. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. This provides for the exclusion of Article 12 of this draft law because... it was included in the previous proposal... Article 11... the relevant norms... This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U238	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 59. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! For – 77, against – no, abstain – 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U239	60. – Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal to delete Article 14 of the draft law. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U240	Please call me! We will vote for 60. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! There is no concern about – 84, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U241	61. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. In the first paragraph of Article 15 of the draft law, the words ‘Grand cities, municipalities, municipalities, municipalities’ shall be replaced by the words ‘Citys, municipalities, parishes’, thus simplifying the structure of the draft law. This proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 64. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U242	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 61. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! On – 24, against – 52, abstained – 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U243	Thank you. 62. – Member Arvils Aseradens's proposal, which deals with registering the big city, the large city with the municipality area, the municipality, the municipality, the municipalities and villages of the municipalities and their borders... on the way in which they are registered in the State Land Service's State Address Register Information System. This proposal was partly supported and incorporated in 64. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U244	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 62. - Member Asheraden's proposal! On – 19, against – 61, abstained – 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U245	63. – Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal, which is ideally similar to the previous proposal. This was also partly supported by the Commission and included in 64. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U246	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 63. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! On – 23, against – 59, abstained – 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U247	64. – a proposal from the committee responsible to discuss how and within which administrative territories, their territorial breakdown units, villages and their boundaries are registered. This proposal, summarising the ideas put forward by Members, was created and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U248	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 64. – the proposal of the committee responsible! There are – 85, against and abstaining from – no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U249	65. – Proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It was partly supported and included in the Commission 66. – the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U250	Please call me! We will vote for 65. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! For - 18, for - 56, for - 10 abstentions. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U251	66. – a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also about (in the context of the address system) who registers streets, squares, buildings, singles and other building elements in the system. It was established and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U252	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 66. – the proposal of the committee responsible! There is no concern about – 84, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U253	67. - Asheraden's proposal. It is also related to the address, and it provides for the addition of Article 15 with a norm that the address is granted, changed, specified or eliminated in accordance with the law or the decision of the municipality and that the relevant decision of the municipality may also be issued in the form of a general administrative act. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U254	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 67. - Member Asheraden's proposal! There is no concern about – 84, against and abstaining from –. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U255	68. – Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal, which provided for the wording of Article 16 of the draft law in a different language, namely to state that we are creating lands in the Republic of Latvia. And that would, in this way, replace the wording of the second reading in the Commission, which is intended to form these administrative regions, which we discussed so hard at the very beginning of the draft law. The Commission did not support land-building and therefore did not support the 68th proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U256	Please call me! We will vote for 68. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! On – 2, against – 58, refrained – 25. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U257	69. – a proposal from the Commission responsible for clarifying Article 14 concerning the establishment of administrative regions. And unlike the second-reading version here, the main change is that we are referring to the specific administrative regions that would be created accordingly and whose operation would be regulated by another separate law, on which we are already discussing that this will become one. This proposal from the responsible commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U258	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 69. – the proposal of the committee responsible! For -67, for -1 and for -19. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U259	Thank you, colleagues. 70. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal. It provides for the addition of an article to the draft law, which would determine the way in which the development of local and regional territorial units is assessed. When we spoke about this proposal, we discussed at several sittings how and to what extent territorial development should be measured, because it is clear that only on the basis of data can we make qualitative decisions. After the commission discussed... The Commission decided that we could regulate these issues in another draft law, which is also currently being examined by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, but not in this draft law. Therefore, proposal 70 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U260	Please call me! We'll vote for 70. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! ( The sound is broken.) ... - 59, abstaining - none. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U261	Thank you. 71. – Member Viktoras Valaiņa's proposal, which is worth talking about how voluntary integration of administrative territories should be ensured if municipalities agree with each other. However, following extensive discussions within the Commission, this proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U262	Please call me! We will vote for 71. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! For – 1, against – 60, abstained – 27. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U263	Proposal 72 leads to a review of the transitional provisions. 72. - Mr Valaiņa's proposal, which essentially means that the administrative territorial reform is moving into a year... together with the next parliamentary elections. This was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U264	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 72. - Member Valaiņa's proposal! 27, against 58, abstaining - None. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U265	73. – a proposal from the committee responsible. It is a legal technical proposal to replace the word ‘large’ in the first sentence of paragraph 2 of the transitional provisions with the word ‘republikas’. This can and must be done for the following reasons: The status of the state city for the respective cities that we have established... It shall enter into force in 2021, following the elections to the Saeima. Until then, the cities of the Republic continue to exist. The title therefore requires technical clarification in order to make technical adjustments to this provision. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U266	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 73. – the proposal of the committee responsible! There is no – 86, against and abstains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U267	Thank you. 74. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordāns, which provides that the provisions of the Cabinet of Ministers referred to in paragraph 2 of the Transitional Provisions shall remain in force until 30 June of the following year. In the Commission's debate on this issue, this proposal was not supported, because its idea of more precise regulation of all this status and the cases referred to in paragraph 2 of the transitional provisions was... all this is included in the next 75 proposals. Proposal 74 was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U268	Please call me! We will vote for 74. – the proposal of the Minister of Justice Bordans! No, no, no – 64, abstain – 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U269	Thank you. 75. – the proposal by Juris Pūce, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which in paragraph 2 of the transitional regulations specifies the duration of certain regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U270	Please call me! We will vote for 75. – the proposal of the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Pūce! For – 66, against – no, abstain – 20. The proposal is supported. Dear colleagues, Members Paviluts, Ples, Steel, Šchipčinska and Stein are asking for a break in the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 26 May and to resume the sitting on 28 May at 19.00... 30 minutes after the end of the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 28 May. Do Members have objections? ( Internouncing call.) So this means that today we are closing and resuming the Thursday following the end of the extraordinary meeting, 30 minutes after the end of the extraordinary meeting. Do Members have objections? ( Milestones.) Who's gonna talk... Is that so? So – will the Member Cole talk about or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U271	I'll talk... I will speak, colleagues, about supporting Members' proposal to continue the sitting after... 30 minutes after the end of the extraordinary meeting on 28 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2020-05-26-PT13-2082-U272	Thank you. No Member has applied to speak against. So we decide to declare a break today and to resume the sitting on 28 May – 30 minutes after the end of the agenda for the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. Colleagues! It's time for notifications. Today's 51st anniversary is celebrated by our colleague Rihards Kozlovskis, and we welcome him remotely and on the e-platform. (Applause) Thank you. Another statement. Members of the Saeima Bureau are asked to meet here in the Saeima Chamber immediately after the meeting. Colleagues! So the break until 28 May – 30 minutes after the end of the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. Thank you. Also, colleagues, registration. ( Milestones.) Okay, we've just voted. Let us accept the last vote on the registration of Members. Thank you all for your work today. (Applause) ( Interruption)
