ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. We need to open a session and then a word. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:36]] The 412 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We have a proposal. With regard to this question? Please, Vladimir Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u2	Thank you. Draft Decree No. 9311, which will be submitted by Shevchenko, a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, will now be literally considered, my colleague. But if you've seen it, it's Landik on our schedule. The committee is constantly charged that the authorities have seized the committee and are not giving up. I know that there is a ruling, a draft order where they propose to Shevchenko to put the chair of the committee again. I ask you to put this question to a vote, to put it on the agenda, to restore, so to speak, justice in our committee and not to discuss, not to persuade the authorities that we are holding on to this chair. Let them put it out, we vote and let them chair this committee so that there will be no conflict situations like this morning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. To end this mutual struggle, this morning, who will report this, this question has arisen. to find out what the situation is. So let's do this, let's finish the second-reading question, let's get the documents on the draft decision on the election of the committee head. I'd like the deputies to come into the session room. Then we'll make a decision, and then we'll make a decision, and that's it. And now we need to consider and accept this draft decision. Reporter. We agreed that Chevchenko would report as a member of the committee. Andrew Shevchenko, please. No, we took it as a foundation. But if we don't have any suggestions, we're going to have a committee member, Andrew Shevchenko, then we're going to put it to the vote. Oh, I'm sorry, come on, let's report it and do it. We can make this quick, please. It was about the break, I missed. Well, let's make it quick. And the people's deputies would like to step up, and I apologize for saying that, in the session room, so that we can then, after the second reading, consider the personnel question. Please, Andrew Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u4	Colleagues, I will report to the committee's decision, which was adopted on January 11th of this year. The committee supports the draft Decree that we are currently considering. No amendment to this decision has been registered. So I think today we should thank the authors of this initiative -- Mikoli Tomenka, Oleni Kondratjuk, Stepan Kurpil and Viktor Ukulov -- and support this decision as a whole. I will also inform you that, before the new year, we held a round table on the work of journalists before the elections, from the initiative of the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Mikola Tomenka. In particular, a number of very pointy but important problems faced by mass media before the elections were identified. That is, there is still a problem with the Electoral Law, where the definition of agitation is very vague. And in particular, by this definition, for example, the use of party symbols in the television story will be treated as election agitation. Accordingly, if it is not paid from the electoral fund, the talk of a convention or a party rally will be treated as a violation of the law. The other one. It's still a difficult situation for local media. And I, my colleagues, would like to remind you that in these parliamentary elections, mass media journalists are actually going to choose half of Parliament, majors. Where else can you get information about them? Third. There remain insufficient guarantees for journalists to work in polling stations, both during the voting process and in the counting of votes. I think that all of these things, which are fixed by the journalistic community and the expert environment, are another reason why today this decision that we're looking at is extremely necessary. I will also add that there is a consolidated position that before the 2012 parliamentary elections there is a sense of creating a special expert council to include representatives of the National Television and Broadcasting Council, the Central Electoral Commission, representatives of political parties, journalists and public organisations. So let me sum this up: Ukraine is in the election of a country where journalists are currently not comfortable working. There's a whole bunch of hot spots, and I'll remind you, this is the situation with the Express in Lviv, this is the situation with the Nova Odessa channel, this is the situation with the opposition TVs "Foro" and "ATVK" in Kharkiv. There's a general background of censorship. I think what we're going to vote for today is our small contribution to making journalists more comfortable in 2012. On behalf of and on behalf of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, I urge the Chamber to vote in favour of the draft decree as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u5	Honourable national MPs, since there are no additions, clarifications and amendments, this means that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is fully in solidarity with the work done. So I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a decree to ensure the unhindered activity of the media during the pre-election period of 2012. [[Registration number 9311]] Please vote. [[16:06:32]] For three hundred I'll take the order. Two factions, the "BUT" faction, "Fatherland", demand a recess to hold consultations and make a statement. But they're ready to make a statement. The statement will be made by Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u6	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I'm authorized by Yulia Timoshenko to make this statement and bring our position to the citizens of Ukraine. In Ukraine there is a very active and brutal cleansing of the cultural and spiritual fields. But what's being proposed now goes beyond anything. What is it? The group, the language doesn't come back to say they're national MPs, but the status is exactly like this, a group of provocateurs, or I can't call them where the representatives of the regions are, the three of them, but where the representatives and Lithuanians, and the communists, and there's even the most famous person in Ukraine today, yesterday it was a gray MP almost no one knew about, today it's the most famous person, Rybakov. I think a normal, conscientious person would do a mandate today and leave, and ask for shelter in Burkina Faso or Uganda somewhere, not to sit here with us, in Parliament. So the idea is that a group of these deputies have introduced a provocative, absolutely no other name, a bill in which they want to give away our greatest national monuments of values is the Kiev-Pecher Lavra, this is the Pochaievska Lavra, this is the Feodosian Church in Kiev, other temples to pass on to property, to remove them from the property of the people. You can imagine -- it's stealing age, it's in the Ukrainian people who want to steal it all and give it to one single patriarch. I'm telling you, even if you wanted to pass it on to the Kiev Patriarchate or the Patriotic, or the patriotic Greek Catholics, or even our auto-Cefalists, we'd be against it, too. Who gave you the right to take it all away? This is a colossal list, about 200 objects to be passed on to the Moscow patriarch. Please tell us that our largest shrine, Kyewovo-Pecherska Lavra, will be cared for by the Moscow Patriarchate, whose spiritual center is outside Ukraine. Because of this, Ternopil has risen today, Hmelničina is rising, the Ukrainian people will rise up, take down this bill, we will not let you do the most disgraceful, horrible theft of age -- steal these monuments from the Ukrainian people, we will never let you do that. I am convinced that they refer, the authors refer to the President’s issuing of a decree and our obligations to the Council of Europe. But let him meet our most recent demands -- release Julia Timoshenko, take it all off, let him do it, not transfer the property. Because of that, once again, you won't be able to do that, we'll raise the Ukrainian people and not give you our Ukrainian shrines as private property.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to make the necessary arrangements. I'd only ask our respectable colleague to do less "wack." And secondly, two or more deputies have made their legislative initiative, no one has accepted anything yet. And don't look for adventures until they're here. That's the first one. And secondly, listen to what I'm telling you, and secondly, I have a big request from the entire Supreme Council. You figure out who you've got on the list, what the money is, and now you can't figure it out and split it up, and you're competing with someone who's been given more or someone else who's been stolen more. Put order in yourself. And I'm asking the report to be that principled in all of those issues that relate to the property of public organizations. That's it. There's no question in the Supreme Council, no. And don't disturb the Supreme Council, please. I know without you that he doesn't bet. And I asked, when I was speaking in the Supreme Council, the issues that are being raised, let's not bring them up for consideration. Why are you disturbing this problem right now? Is she looking at it? Do you need a process and a cry in the Supreme Council? A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on State control over land use and protection is being announced for consideration. [[on administrative reform measures]] [[Registration number 9558]] At the same time, honourable colleagues, let me inform you that a letter has been received from the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, signed by the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, requesting a postponement of the consideration of this issue in view of the fact that a number of disagreements have arisen and part of the powers of the government of autonomy, especially in view of what has been adopted by the Supreme Council and the law in force, which defines the respective powers. In addition, the head of the Temporary Special Commission on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea made such an offer: to postpone consideration of the matter. What will be the opinion of the Supreme Council? Is there no objection? You don't have to vote? You don't have to. Then let us postpone consideration of the matter for the next plenary week. Now we should be looking at Bill 9326 with you, but there is also a proposal from the committee, especially taking into account the comments of the General Legal Office that it needs serious elaboration because it is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, it is requested that the committee be instructed to bring it into line with the requirements and provisions of the Constitution. Is there no objection? None. Ladies and gentlemen, there was an offer. I would like your permission to consider the draft decision and to decide on the election of the Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. I have advised the Presidency: there is no objection to putting a draft decision to the vote and a positive decision. I'm asking you to do it. May I put it to a vote? I put to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Privatization", namely: to elect Shevchenk Andrija Vitaliyovich of the National Deputy of Ukraine from the multi-mandatory national constituency "Blok ulija Timoshenko" (resistance number 9703). Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] The question is not about choice. Take down the vote. Dear colleagues, the personnel issue is not included in the agenda, so we have, I have. about the election. I once again put the motion to vote: to adopt the decision on the election of Shevchenk Andrija Vitaliyovich as head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. [[Registration number 9703]] Please vote. Please vote. [[16:16:02]] For-152. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The region's party is one, "BUT" is the "Fatherland" is 96, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 47, the communists are zero, the People's Party is zero, the Reforms for the Future is 2, the non-fractional is 6. Please, come on, think about the candidature. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Order amending and establishing the boundaries of the city of Deaf Sum district is under review. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:16:51]] For 213 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Victor Mikolayovich Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u8	Honorary colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the Suma District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with information on the change and establishment of the town of Deaf. According to the land-cadastral data within the town of Deaf there is a total area of 2001 ha. The projects developed within the town of Deaf include 404 hectares of land in the knowledge of the Deaf City Council, including 268 hectares of housing and public buildings, 43 hectares of industrial land, 35 hectares of public land: Deaf National Pedagogical University. Long, professional and pedagogical college, land of VAT "Sumgaz", VAT "Sumblenergo", 34 hectares -- land of municipal infrastructure, treatment facilities, water supply of urban councils, 22 hectares -- land of the Gluchów Public Delta Planner Club "AviaCompany". Thus, the area of the city of Deaf will be 2405.9 hectares after the changes have been made. The inclusion of the above land within the city is based on the development of housing, social infrastructure, rational public - purpose facilities, industrial roads, and engineering. The issue of changing the boundaries of the city of Deaf is in line with legislation, discussed and approved by the Deaf City, the Deaf District, the Suma District Councils, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government at its meeting on October 19, 2011, decided to recommend support to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the Suma District Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u9	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u10	We ask the national MPs to support the bill and accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to discuss this matter? No one insists on the performance? Please sign up. If they insist, what can I do? Please, the microphone. Yavorowski and Grivkowski. Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I want to remind our voters. Deaf is the unique city that our Ukrainian state has with you. After the blood of Baturin was destroyed and drowned, you know, the capital was transferred to the Deaf. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality held its field meeting about a year and a half ago to Gluhov. Almost all the national MPs were present. I have to tell you, we're just excited about this little town that has its own teaching university. And because of that, of course, I no longer mention the unique monuments that are in the Deaf. That's why we're going to be supporting Deaf enlargement, and that's what this town deserves. We'll be supportive. And to the end. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you as a friend. I'm not the first day in Parliament. I want to ask you, don't touch the subject of someone grabbing something. Because if we discuss it publicly, you lose, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Period. I'm closing it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u13	Thank God you've closed the subject. I would ask you not to press charges against the factions if you have absolutely no reason to. I'm absolutely tolerant of you and you don't appreciate it. And periodically try to do something. So that's cool, dot, dot. But I'm asking you, let's not intrude where we don't have to intrude. It is the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the amendment and establishment of the borders of the city of Deaf of the Suma Region for adoption as a decision. [[Registration number 9644]] Please vote. [[16:21:50]] For 328 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, your consideration is proposed by a draft decree to change and establish the boundaries of the city of Konotap and the district of Conotop. [[Registration number 9645]] I think you're short, please don't let us vote on the shortened procedure. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u14	The designed project is 345 hectares [345 ha] of land, including 312 hectares of land, which are part of the knowledge of the Conotapian Council of Agriculture and 33 acres [33 ha] of land of the Koskie Rural Council of the Konotap Region. This is mainly the land of residential microregions and communal farms that have been outside its borders and the land of the Suma Fishbows, located in the territory of the Conotapian region. Thus, the area of Konotap after making the necessary changes according to the project amounted to 4,000,377,7 hectares and 166,665 hectares [166,000 ha] in the Conotapian region. The question of the change in the boundaries of the city of Konotap is accepted in accordance with the legislation by the Koskovsky Rural Council of the Konotap Region, the Podlipen Rural Council of the Konotap City Council, the Conotapian City, the Konotapsk Region, the Suma District Councils, and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. At its meeting on March 16 and December 21, 2011, the State Building and Local Government Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it support the submission of the Suma District Council to change the boundaries of the city of Konotap and the district of the Suma region. Please ask the National Deputies to support the appropriate draft of the decree and to accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u15	Dear National Deputies! No warning? I can't see. Puts the vote to the vote. Pantyhose, please, microphone. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u16	One minute. I don't mind approving the boundaries of Konotap, but we need to gradually go over the approval of administrators, which is the jurisdiction of administrators. And we need to know if there are any other authorities in the territory of the appropriate legal entity that we confirm, except for that city council that has jurisdiction over this territory. Because we may have such situations as "mothers," where in the jurisdiction of a council there are villages that have their own silage, and we have their respective powers. Therefore, it is a long time before we get used to it. Because soon we will have serious decisions in the space planning of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u17	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, there is a draft decree to amend and establish the boundaries of the city of Konotap and the district of Conotopa. [[Registration number 9645]] for adoption as a decision. Please vote. [[16:25:31]] For 324 I'll take the order. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the draft decree on the 600th anniversary of the establishment of the village of Mikulicin in the Ivano-Frankow region. Why don't we just vote, make a decision? [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a vote on the proposal for approval of the draft Decision marking the 600th anniversary of the establishment of the village of Mikulicin in the Ivano-Frankow region. [[Registration number 9482]] Please vote. [[16:26:25]] For 346 I'll take the order. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider a number of laws that the President of Ukraine has made his proposals, i.e. he has vetoed. So I'd like us to work quickly. There are a lot of these bills, and a lot of them have added the Ukrainian Law on Documents that Testify the Person and Confirm Ukrainian Citizenship, again with proposals by the President of Ukraine. I am announcing before the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Insurance with State Support, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Beggings, Your Honor, let's take a look at this. There's a short cut, there's a lot to vote on, and that's it. Well, let's do the report in a simplified procedure, and then we'll do the repairs. No objections? Well, then we don't have to vote. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council on 22 December 2011, the Law on the Specialities of Agricultural Insurance with State Support cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. [[Registration number 5063]] The law has a number of observations. First of all, we cannot agree with the proposal to give priority to this law among other acts of civil law, since the Constitution of Ukraine and the Civil Code are the basis of civil legislation. Secondly, the granting of agrarian policy powers to the central executive authority on government regulation in the field of agricultural insurance does not correspond to the basic principles of the regulation of voluntary insurance. Thirdly, the Parliament's definition of its own name as a national commission that regulates financial services markets is an intervention in the competence of the President of Ukraine. Four. The absence of a clear separation of powers between the central authority of the executive body on agrarian policy and the institution empowered to perform insurance functions on agricultural products may lead to a violation of the rights of insurers and insurers. Fifth. It does not conform to the constitutional principles of business regulation, and it does not authorize the government to approve the number of agricultural products covered by insurance. Six. Establishing different periods for the formulation of the insurance act and the terms and conditions for the termination of the agricultural insurance contract is not consistent with the Civil Code and the Insurance Act. Seven. A norm that prohibits any direct compensation from the state budget for damage to agricultural products that have arisen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u19	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u20	What has arisen as a result of extraordinary situations is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of what has been said, the Head of State considers it necessary to bring the law into line with the legislation of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention. We will now have to vote on the President's proposals, which the Committee has considered as amendments. We have to vote on all these proposals separately first. And then, if supported, in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The amendment of the first President of Ukraine, which is considered by the Committee, is subject to the vote. Please vote. [[16:30:55]] For 258. Correction accepted. Amendment 2 shall be put to the vote, please vote. It's taken into account by the committee, we have to support it. [[16:31:18]] For 254 It's a readjustment. Amendment No. 3 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[16:31:38]] For 261 Correction counted. Amendment No. 4 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[16:31:59]] For 261 Copy that. Amendment 5 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[16:32:18]] For 255 Amendment number five accepted. Amendment 6 shall be put to the vote. [[16:32:40]] For 262 Correction accepted. I bet on the vote of Amendment 7, please vote. [[16:33:02]] For 259. Correction accepted. Amendment 8, please. [[16:33:23]] For 262 Correction accepted. Yes, Amendment 9 is a vote. [[16:33:45]] For 262 Copy that. Amendment 10, vote, please. [[16:34:03]] For 258. Copy that. Amendment 11 shall be put to the vote. [[16:34:22]] For 259. Copy that. Vote 12, please. [[16:34:40]] For 263 Copy that. I bet on the vote of amendment 13. Please vote. [[16:35:00]] For 263 Copy that. I am taking the vote on Amendment 14. Please vote. [[16:35:20]] For 259. Copy that. The amendment shall be put to the vote under number 15. Please vote. 37 amendments. [[16:35:44]] For 264 Amendment 16 shall be put to the vote. Change the vote, please. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u22	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no wonder that when you passed this law, you rejected all our amendments. Some of them are now being reinstated by the President, but not on behalf of the opposition, but on behalf of his own. And you're all in line like a voting machine, voting friendlyly without thinking. As a result, think of this correction. And in this amendment, the President narrows the insurance policy down because in the previous reading it is accepted that the insurer is obliged within 15 days of receiving the notice to file an insurance claim, and here you are given only two working days of insurance, two days. And if he didn't make it in those two days, then what, he doesn't have the right to do it? So I think this term is too small. And for the most part, please do not destroy such a legislative field. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to just think, I mean, take into account Yuri Carmazin's remarks, but we are now voting on the President's amendments in accordance with the Rules. If they do not, one of them will have to be sent to the committee for further consideration. Vote 16 of the President of Ukraine's amendment. Please vote. [[16:37:49]] For 259. Correction accepted. I'll bet the vote on the 17th amendment. Please vote. [[16:38:09]] For 261 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 18 amendments. Please vote. [[16:38:31]] For 258. Correction accepted. I submit 19 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[16:38:53]] For 257 Correction accepted. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 20. Please vote. [[16:39:12]] For 259. Correction accepted. 21 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[16:39:30.]] For 255 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 22. Please vote. [[16:39:49]] For 259. Correction accepted. I'll bet on the vote 23 of the amendment. Please vote. [[16:40:10]] For 258. Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 24 amendments. Please vote. [[16:40:29]] For 261 Correction accepted. I'll bet on the 25th amendment. Please vote. [[16:40:47]] For 260 Correction accepted. I'll bet on the vote 26 of the amendment. Please vote. [[16:41:07]] For 263 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 27. Please vote. [[16:41:27]] For 260 Correction accepted. I'll bet the vote on the 28th amendment. Please vote. [[16:41:46]] For 260 Correction accepted. I'll bet the vote on 29 amendments. Please vote. [[16:42:05]] For 264 Correction accepted. 30 amendments shall be made to the vote. Please vote. [[16:42:24]] For 264 Correction accepted. I'll bet the vote on 31 amendments. [[16:42:43.]] For 259. Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 32 amendments. Please vote. [[16:43:03]] For 261 Copy that. I'm betting on a vote of 33. Please vote. [[16:43:22]] For 257 Correction accepted. 34 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[16:43:43]] For 262 Correction accepted. I submit 35 amendments to the vote. [[16:44:01]] For 259. I submit 36 amendments to the vote. [[16:44:20]] For 261 Correction accepted. And I bet the vote on amendment 37 Please vote. [[16:44:40]] For 262 Correction accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments have been supported in the session room. I'm voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Product Insurance with State Support for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[16:45:23]] For 266 The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration of the Ukrainian Housing Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Housing Code on the Definition of Housing and General Area of Housing Property has been proposed by the President of Ukraine since 01.12.2011. I would ask that we consider this bill in a simplified manner. In principle, the President proposes to reject him, so we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! On 17 November 2011, the Supreme Council adopted the Act "On Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Housing Code on the Definition of Housing and General Area of Housing Property". [[Registration number 8203]] According to the head of State, the prescribed law cannot be signed for such reasons. First. During the period of consideration by the Supreme Council of the Law, the government prepared amendments to the Tax Code regarding the introduction of a tax on wealth. It is suggested that the tax base on wealth taxes is determined for housing objects with a total area of square meters. The legal proposal to apply taxes to housing rather than to the general area would create a situation in which tax payers, who have the same total area of dwellings and houses, would pay different amounts to budgets depending on the characteristics of housing planning. For example. The owner of a large house of a thousand square feet [1,000 sq m], given the possibility of replanning, transferring dwellings, and living quarters in a living room, will be able to register a residential area within less than 250 square feet [250 sq m]. And that way, he won't pay the taxes. Such an approach does not conform to the principle of social justice. With a view to ensuring a more equitable housing tax approach, therefore, it is appropriate to determine the basic taxation by this tax the total area of the residential property. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine regarding the rejection of the law on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u25	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, in this regard, I would like to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Act on the Amendment of Article 6 of the Ukrainian Housing Code on the Definition of Housing and General Areas of Housing Property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u27	Indignant. From the committee, please, Sergey Fedotovich Maybeard, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing, Regional Policy, at its meeting on 21.12.2011, considered the proposal of the President of Ukraine to amend article 6 of the Housing Code of the Ukrainian Soviet Union on the definition of housing, the total area of the property, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 17 November 2011. The bill aims to address the gaps in existing legislation on the definition of housing, the total area of residential properties. Pursuant to article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Committee received a proposal from the President of Ukraine to amend article 6 of the Ukrainian Soviet Housing Code to reject it. In the conclusion of 20.12. The Chief Research and Expert Office does not support the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act. The Committee invites the Supreme Council to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and to reject the Law “On Amendments to Article 6 of the Housing Code of the Ukrainian Soviet Union for the Definition of Housing and Common Area of Real Estate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u29	He's got a right, President. He's got a right. Yes, Your Honor, have you got the offer? Carmazine, please, as an exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u30	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends, well, think about what's going on. There is a law being passed, by the way, a good, reasonable law. He's got the President vetoing it. On November 17, 2011, the entire Supreme Council fully considered all proposals to one President. They're sending it to the President. We've counted your amendments, Mr. President. The president looked, and then he said, "You know, you don't need this law at all." And I ask, the Supreme Council, which then erases and also says, "Yeah, now let's take this proposal into account." I'm asking you, Your Honor, what position should you be in? You've already been placed in these positions. Get out of it, spread your shoulders. We have to reject this proposal because the law is normal, and the president's amendments have been taken into account. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, but let's respect ourselves and respect our constituents.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is on the table. Please, Smitch, what's the point? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u32	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, if this is the case, at least it would have to ask the question of the Peacekeeper to explain to everyone that, if you repeal this law, what is left, what is left of the norm in order for clarity to be clear on this issue. As far as I can tell, there's no clarity in the hall today. What do we vote for, and what remains in this case?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u33	We are now the first to vote in accordance with the Rules on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject. If not, if this proposal is not supported, then there will be another proposal for overcoming the President's veto. The Supreme Council may decide to return to the committee and to work on it for a month. That's the way it might be, it's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u34	Let's announce the scientific conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u35	It has already been said that the scientific expertise does not agree with the proposal. But we're the first to vote on the President's proposal. I'm voting on the proposal. That's what the Rules require. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Housing Code on the Definition of Housing and General Area of Housing Property. [[Registration number 8203]] Please vote. [[16:53:43]] For 233 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 185, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-factional – 9. The Ukrainian Protection Act, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 14.12.2011, has been announced for consideration. A request here from the rapporteurs and the co-rapporteur to consider the issue in part of the summary report, or two minutes. Please vote. [[16:54:38]] For 222 Decision taken. Rapporteur: Minister of Justice of Ukraine Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinović. Coroner is the first Deputy Head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u36	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The proposals made by the President of Ukraine refer to parts four and five, as well as to section six, paragraph 3, of the Law. Part four of article 7 of the Law provides that the decision to remedy shortcomings is made on the basis of the reasons provided for in parts three and four of article 11 of the Law. This is a matter of security and testing on which a licence can then be suspended. I mean, it's just that when the draft law was passed, there were no detailed issues that might be the basis for the public authority's authority to verify the legality of those who have the right to carry out protective activities so that they can be removed after verification. And in case of non-removal, cancel the license. Since these reasons are not prescribed, the President proposes that the Supreme Council do so. As far as I can see from the work of the profile committee, it's done. So the editorial that is now being proposed by the profile committee is entirely in line with the comments that the head of state has proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and the committee of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u37	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Olijnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u38	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! To your attention, it is proposed to reconsider with the proposals of the President of Ukraine the Act on Security Activities, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 17, 2011. At its meeting on 21 December 2011, the Committee reviewed the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the law, which were drafted jointly with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and took them into account. The reporter, Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander, gave you, honourable colleagues, the essence of the comments on the text of the law that was passed, so I will not repeat myself. I would like to inform you that the proposed bill table contains three proposals by the President of Ukraine to part four, fifth, sixth, of article 7 of the adopted law, which are considered by the committee. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on Protection in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard the offer of a profile committee. Three remarks to the President's bill are taken into account by the committee. We need to confirm the committee's decision or not confirm it. But it's better to confirm. The President's first motion is put to the vote, please vote. [[16:58:00]] For 254 Offer supported. I'm voting on the President's second sentence, please vote. [[16:58:20]] For 252 Supported. And the President's third proposal, please. [[16:58:39]] For 264 Supported. So, your honor, we supported all the President's proposals for the bill. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act on Security Activities, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[Bill registration number 4824]] Please vote. [[16:59:21]] For 263 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u40	Honourable National Deputies, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity on Improving the System of Energy Tariffs, produced from Biogas, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 27.10.2011. Asking you to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[17:00:02]] For 234 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the National Commission for State Energy Regulation, Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On October 6, last year, the Supreme Council passed the Ukrainian Act "To Change Article 17 Prime. It's the Power Act. In his proposals to this law, the president wrote that he could not be signed for such reasons. I want to say these main reasons. The first is that the law provides for a rule regarding the simultaneous use of alternative sources of energy and traditional fuels. From the point of view of the Head of State, this could lead to the abuse of electricity producers, since there is currently no means of controlling the use of the specified fuels at the same time. Secondly, the law provides that control over the use of funds received by the subject from the implementation of electricity produced by this type of fuel relies on the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy. The introduction of such control will result in additional administrative pressure on operators and require additional budgetary costs. And the last. Ukraine's energy system has the capacity to reserve as much as possible for alternative sources of energy up to 10,000 megawatts of electricity. Today, 17,000 megawatts have been applied for by the owners. The introduction of this law will lead to an increase in the submission of applications, which in turn will affect the level of energy security of the State. So the President of Ukraine is asking you to reject this bill as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u42	Thank you. Mr. Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk, please Deputy Head of the PEC Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u43	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with the mandate given by the President of Ukraine, Ukraine was returned with its proposals adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 October 2011 by the Law on Amendments to Article 17 of the Law on Electricity on Improving the Biogas-based System of Tariffs for Review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 21 December 2011, reviewed the President's proposals for the bill. As a result of the President’s proposals, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it accept it and reject the adopted law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u44	Goodima, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! Regrettably, the deputy chairman of the committee acting on your behalf provided unreliable information. The committee at its meeting, appreciating, as experts, the President's veto, and today fully believes that this law should be signed by the President. The president made a mistake. Who doesn't? In such a case, the Supreme Council must overcome the veto. So the first decision of the committee was this: the committee wrote a letter -- this is an unprecedented thing -- to re-examine the president's comments by the experts who let him down and call off the veto. I mean, it's not true. Under conditions where Ukraine is going through a great winter and when there are investors who want to produce Ukrainian biogas, it is a crime to stop progress. So I urge you to overcome the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the secretariat to see what documents the committee was filing because I have a document signed by the committee head. The conclusion is: "The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it accept them and reject the adopted law as a result of its consideration of the proposals by the President of Ukraine." And the signature: the head of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, together with that, and you know it, the President's proposal is the first to vote. It's about rejecting the law. And if not, then we'll put the veto to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Well, that's the way it is. I am voting on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 17-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on improving the tariff system for electricity produced from biogas]] Please vote. [[17:05:58]] For 235 The law is rejected. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Accounting for Natural Gas and Electricity, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 06.12.2011, is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8134]] A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. Please vote. [[17:06:35]] For 227 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Alipov Alexander Mikolajovic, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Viktor Ivanovich Turmanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u47	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on gas and electricity bills and adopted by the Supreme Council on 15 November 2011 aimed at introducing mechanisms for anti-crisis management of energy resources through current accounts with a special use regime. The law is not supported by the President of Ukraine because of non-conformity with other Ukrainian laws, because of the proposed non-competitive and non-systemic approach to resolving the tasks of stabilizing the financial situation of all enterprises in the field of life-support, namely: there is no equal approach to fulfilling all the financial obligations of utilities, which presupposes a time-consuming payment of wages, financial obligations to the budget, immediate and emergency work, other high-priority needs of enterprises, etc.; an unfairly defined calculation mechanism for other types of energy resources other than electricity and natural gas, such as coal. The law also spreads heat and water to all businesses in the field. The only approaches to opening and using special bank accounts have been violated, there are no criteria and mechanisms for identifying authorized banks on competitive grounds, and there are no conditions for setting up a single distribution of funds for all the entities in the market. In the event that the law becomes effective, its operation will create different conditions for businesses doing the same work. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes that the adopted law be rejected. He commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a new bill that should take equally into account the interests of all participants in the energy consumption process and the provision of utilities. Such a bill has been drafted, agreed on by the central executive authorities, and after approval by the Cabinet of Ministers will come to the Supreme Council. Please support the President's proposal to reject this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u48	Thank you, sit down, please. Victor Ivanovich Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine has returned with proposals and comments adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 November 2011 to amend certain Ukrainian laws concerning the calculation of natural gas, electricity for re-examination by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee on the Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 21 December 2011, considered the President's proposals under the Act. As a result of its consideration, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it accept the President's proposal and reject the law adopted. In addition, the National Bank of Ukraine, as a body setting out the rules for banking operations, defining the system and procedure for the form of payments in its letter to the Committee, supported the President's proposals to the law because of the contradiction of the law adopted with the special law, which defines the functions and powers of the National Bank of Ukraine and upholds the principles of the opening and operation of bank accounts. Taking into account the position of the Committee and other arguments, I would like to support the proposals of the President of Ukraine to reject the adopted law adopted on 15 January 2011 entitled “On the amendment to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the calculation of natural gas and electricity”. [[Bill No. 8134]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u50	Thank you. Sergey Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u51	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I take this opportunity to draw attention to the need to protect the villagers. Today, electricity tariffs are December 1, 80, which is paid for services, postal services, and are already included in the NCRE tariff. The village dweller of Chernigovish, Poltavščina, and other regions goes to pay for the post office, and is again pulled from it by this 1 bracelet of 80. An absurd thing the world didn't know. So let's listen and protect the peasants. And yet, so that the skyscraper and the Crucifixion do not cut three skins off the poor peasant. I think everyone's heard, and I think we need to get to the bottom of it, and that's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the President of Ukraine, supported by the Committee, to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Natural Gas and Electricity Accounting. [[Registration number 8134]] Please vote. [[17:12:03]] For 259. Decision taken. The law is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you the Customs Code of Ukraine with the proposals of the President of Ukraine from 21.12.2011. [[Registration number 8130-d]] The request to make a decision to keep the reports brief, and then we follow up on the amendments very much. Please vote. [[17:12:48]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Yuri Miroshnichenko. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u53	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! On November 3, 2011, the Ukrainian Customs Code was adopted by the Supreme Council. According to the President of Ukraine, the specified code cannot be signed because it violates the constitutional guarantees of ownership rights and the rights of entrepreneurial activities by introducing an opaque mechanism for regulating customs broker activities, complicates customs procedures for operators, does not meet the WTO’s obligations to determine the customs value of goods, creates substantial risks, avoids tax evasion, avoids liability for customs infringements, increases administrative pressure on entrepreneurs and does not provide for a clear order of customs control, creates corruption risks, leads to imbalances in the responsibilities of economic operators and customs authorities, does not correspond to basic legislative acts, foresees unacceptable preferences and benefits for customs officials. In his proposals, the Head of State focuses on such key points. Customs should protect Ukraine's economic interests and comply as much as possible with European standards. The new customs procedures should balance the interests and responsibilities of entrepreneurs, citizens and states. The new approaches to customs regulation should take into account and ensure that the state budget of Ukraine is filled. Customs procedures need to be simplified. Expand the rights of entrepreneurs. Limit the possibility of abuse by customs authorities. Ensure and prevent corruption in external economic activities. The new code should maximize its impact.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u54	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u55	The new code should maximize the impact of the human factor on the process and the result of the customs treatment of goods. So the President of Ukraine proposes to adopt the Customs Codex of Ukraine, taking into account the above comments and suggestions. Dear colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u56	Thank you, too. Yes, please, Vitaly Hometic, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u57	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the committee has actually considered all the President's proposals for a new edition of the Customs Code. However, proposals to some codex rules need to be harmonized with other standards of the same code. Therefore, after consulting the Committee, after consulting the Supreme Council’s Legal Authority, we also agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers and the President’s Administration on the basis of the rules of the Rules, namely, 135 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, to recommend to Parliament that the Customs Code be sent to the Committee for further work. So next week the committee will be ready to make a really new edition, where we have to take most of the President's proposals into account, but some technical, legal clarifications to do, correct and harmonize with other positions in the same document. We also suggested that we consult on the entry into force of the Code, the Committee would hold a discussion and consultations on this subject, and we would also make recommendations for the following week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u58	Honorable National MPs. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, the motion to refer the law to the committee for further consideration is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8130-State budget]] Please vote. It's about the committee. Please vote. [[17:18:01]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in a similar way, we need to address the Ukrainian Law on amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Customs Code with the proposals of the President of Ukraine on 21.12.2011. They're coming with a set. I therefore put to the vote a motion to refer to the Committee to amend the Ukrainian Law "To amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Customs Code" with the proposals of the President of Ukraine on 21.12.2011. [[Registration number 8130/d]] Please vote. After the vote, then. [[17:18:59]] For 261 Decision taken. Pantyhose, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u59	Question: "What is the status of this document?" Will we, in the second reading, reexamine it? I mean, can we make adjustments there? What? Is this even a new document? Because according to Homutinik, a new document is being issued. I mean, the whole procedure. First reading and second reading. Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! According to the Rules, the Supreme Council can administer. There have been some problems regarding the date of entry. But we can't vote it out here because the President's proposal doesn't have it. And in order for the committee to make a reasonable decision on the terms, we need to get it back to the committee. No more of that. Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain matters of taxation in the context of the distribution agreement, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 10/01/2012, requests for reduced procedures for reporting on this law, is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9358]] Please vote. [[17:20:30.]] For 229 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko. And the co-reporter is the head of the Vitaly Hometicnik Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u61	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Certain Tax Matters, adopted by the Supreme Council on 22 December 2011, cannot be supported and signed by the President for such reasons. [[Registration number 9358]] The law provides for the supplementation of the Tax Code with provisions that provide for the possibility of paying the value added tax, the income tax on enterprises, and the payment of the use of the mining nadrama not only in cash but also in natural form through the transfer to the State of the part of the profitable product acquired by investors as a result of the distribution of the product. According to the Heads of State, the proposed changes do not correspond to the basic concept of taxation, the rules of the Budget Code, which prohibit budgeting in non-financial form, the principle of equality of all payers before the law. It should also be noted that budgeting in natural form will create risks for additional budget expenditures. The provisions of the law on relying on the government to determine the mechanism of payment and the order of accounting for taxes paid in natural form do not correspond, first, to the Constitution of Ukraine, which obliges everyone to pay taxes and assemblies in accordance with the rules and sizes established by law. This is article 67 of the Constitution. Taxation, taxes, and congregations are established exclusively by law. This is article 92 of the Constitution. And secondly, the Tax Code, under which any issue of taxation is regulated by the Code and cannot be established and amended by other laws. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u62	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u63	In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the President’s proposal to reject the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u64	Thank you, too. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u65	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that the position of the committee of profile under this bill was strongly against the adoption of this bill. And it's very good that the committee's opinion coincided with the position of the President's Administration. So you can't even in order like the distribution agreements, you can't pay taxes in a natural way in any kind of product, even if it's liquid goods. So we totally share a position to commit the whole law and forget about that idea at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u66	Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u67	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to support President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, who stopped the lobbyist bill. That's the first one. And the second. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Your Honor, we have article 15 of the Law that we passed with you, "To prevent the fight against corruption." Why do we not require anti-corruption expertise, as prescribed by this law, to every law? Because then we asked the question, part of this room didn't vote, then there were comments from the science and expertise department that they didn't listen to, where it was actually written that it was a lobbyist bill that cost money, a lot of money. Why are we conducting an expert study? Alexander Volodymyrovich, I know you've been preparing including the veto, but why aren't we preparing the expertise? And we don't do it under any law. And as a result, we print a corrupt bill that likes, the boss, something else. So I'm going to vote for the President's proposal and I want to thank him from the rostrum for this bill. It's true for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u68	Oh, God, not the last one. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain matters of taxation under the terms of the Agreement on the Distribution of Produce. [[Registration number 9358]] Please vote. [[17:25:52]] For 267 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Certain Issues of Activities of the National Bank of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 10.01.2012, has been announced for consideration. Proposal for a reduced procedure to work. Please vote. [[17:26:28]] For 224 Decision taken. Reporter – Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Yuri Miroshnichenko, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee of Vitaly Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you to all representatives of the opposition who, in principle, view their parliamentary activities and the President's rightful remarks that he makes support. Dear voters, dear colleagues! On 22 December 2011, the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Certain Provisions of the National Bank of Ukraine". [[Registration number 9440]] It is proposed that the National Bank’s ominous protection within the limits of its powers be established by law to apply measures of physical influence, special means of active defence, and military firearms in accordance with the provisions of the Police Act. The Head of State returned the prescribed law to Parliament with his proposals for re-examination, as he raises a number of observations. First. The proposed changes to the National Bank’s ombudsman are in fact granted the authorization of persons whose status is determined by the Police Act. However, the task of the task force is far more severe than the tasks assigned to the police. The other one. The National Bank of Ukraine Act does not establish the authority of the ombudsman and the requirements for its employees and persons who may be admitted to it, nor does it address the responsibility of the ombudsman in cases of violations of the rights and freedoms of others. Third. This law should be in line with the provisions of the Act on Protective Activity, which aims to regulate relations in the field of protection, the property of citizens by appropriate entities of protective activity. Today, the law is at work in the Supreme Council. In this regard, respectable colleagues, the head of State, cannot support the changes made and proposes in the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on specific issues of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine to exclude sub-items.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u70	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u71	delete sub-paragraphs 1 and 3 of the first section. Please support the proposals of the President of Ukraine, Your Honor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u72	Thank you. Have a seat. Vitaly Hometic, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u73	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the President's remarks have been made in detail by the President's representative in Parliament, so I will not repeat the content of the proposal. The committee decided to support the President's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u74	Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a fair offer, and it needs to be supported. I just want to remind the MPs who are making different proposals for regulating the scope of this special organ, and I would like to remind them that this is our higher government body in the area of monetary policy in the country. And please don't make proposals that aren't right because we're just misleading international organizations that can't understand what form the National Bank is currently operating in. I would like to remind our deputies that the National Bank has the right to legislative initiative. If he needs separate functions, he can take these initiatives himself. And the President's proposal, of course, needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for rejection is put to the vote. Oh, I'm sorry, I did. We must now, Your Honor, vote on the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Amendment number one. It's counted. I'm putting this amendment in for confirmation. Amendment by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:31:14]] For 274 Correction counted. I'm betting on a motion for adoption of the law in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9440]] Please vote. [[17:31:42]] For 262 The law is passed. Thank you. It is announced for consideration by the Ukrainian Law on Documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 21.10.2011. [[Registration number 8505]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:32:20]] For 223 Decision taken. The reporter is Justice Minister Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u77	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! If the procedure is shortened, I can say very briefly: the Head of State believes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 23 September last year the Law "On documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine" cannot be signed because it carries the risks of violations of the constitutional rights of citizens and guarantees these rights, the public rights of the person who violates Ukraine's international obligations, is a step backwards on the implementation of European and international standards in the field of human rights protection, the implementation of plans for the liberalisation of the European Union's visa regime for Ukraine, does not guarantee the security of citizens, will result in an unwarrantedly substantial increase in budgetary costs, will have a negative impact on the budget of each Ukrainian family. The low level of laws and money offered does not meet the urgent needs of today, is unreasonable and unacceptable. The law has a vividly defined corruptive nature. In this regard, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u78	Microphone, please. Do you or do you still have it? It's all right, isn't Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On September 23, 2011, a bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a law. And on November 21st he was returned from the veto of the President of Ukraine with a proposal for his rejection as a whole. The Committee has carefully examined both the proposals of the President of Ukraine and the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration on the proposals of the President of Ukraine for the bill and draws attention to the following. The comments of the President of Ukraine in fact determine the position of the Head of State on issues that are debated and ambiguous in society, both among ordinary citizens and in the environment of lawyers and experts. First of all, such issues include the establishment of a state information system for the registration and documentation of natural persons. The President's proposals are about collecting, storing information about a person, allowing it to be disseminated without the consent of the person on the basis of a sub-legal act. We should agree that the introduction of new examples of electronic media documents is clearly accepted by society and gives rise to some resonance, especially among believers in the Orthodox faith. The committee had hundreds, in fact, hundreds of letters, even thousands of letters, about not having these electronic chips. At the same time, it is clear that the existence of passport documents with electronic media in Ukraine is a matter of time and cost. Because the practice of applying such documents in developed countries is well - known. So it's going to have to be the same law, and it's going to have to be the same law, and it's going to have to be the same law, and it's going to have to be the same law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u80	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u81	The President of Ukraine, using the veto power of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, once again, has actually made one proposal for its rejection. Taking into account the above and the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, the committee at its meeting on 16 November approved by majority the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the President's proposal to reject the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the law. The committee agrees with the President's proposals. Then there is every reason to put to the vote a motion for a rejection of the Ukrainian Law on Documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8507]] Please vote. [[17:37:23]] For 304 The decision is taken by the constitutional majority. Dear colleagues, we do not have much time, but there are still a number of very important issues, namely: We have to work. Draft Law on the Specificities of Public Procurement for Postal Services, Stamps and Marked Envelopes. [[Registration number 9519]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. No, we'll continue for 15 minutes. [[17:38:11]] For 214 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Infrastructure Minister Demidovich Dmitry Volodymyrovich, please. Coroner is the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Anton Yatzenko. That's the reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u83	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You will see a draft of the Ukrainian Act "On the Specialities of Purchasing for Public Services, Postage Marks and Marked Envelopes. This law has prepared the Ministry of Infrastructure to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, and part of article 4 of this article requires that specific laws be laid down for the purchase of postal services. So this bill is actually a requirement of the Ukrainian State Procurement Act. The bill provides for the possibility of purchasing public funds, postal services under the general procedure, by purchasing one participant. So it's practically a law designed to simplify public procurement. With this in mind, please support this bill. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u84	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anton Yatzenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u85	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, considered the bill on 20 December last year. It could be agreed with the Government's position that postage stamps and envelopes are not really a competitor of the market, since they are exclusively activities of the natural monopoly “Staff”. And the Committee decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill as a basis. Well, in principle, given that it is small at all, consider accepting it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this bill, sign up for the speech, report coming in. Names, please. Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u87	Dear friends, just from the fact that it's a natural monopoly, and from the fact that there can be any abuse here, it's not possible to do it in a simplified way, well, it's definitely impossible, because it opens up huge opportunities for corruption. So I firmly oppose adopting this bill as a law. And if he is voted in the first reading, I insist that he be transferred again. for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u88	People's Deputy Hanushtstak, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u89	Tomenc, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u90	Michael Tomenku's got the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, I wanted to remind you of our discussion of the previous half hour, when the President of Ukraine, and more specifically the President's Administration, has put up here a master class for the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of the legal drafting of the bill, when the government is passing bills to those who are submitting, the majority is voting as it is voting, and then the President's Administration, through the President, is proposing to reject the bill as shameful, legally unfounded and as one who is ashamed to be taken into the hands of them. I, my dear friends, want to tell you that for the first time in history, a separate ministry is making itself a law on tender purchases. Well, can a separate law, consisting of three articles, determine how to purchase stamps? But we'll soon have separate laws about moving mail from one ministry to another. There's a basic bill on government procurement. One article should be amended to explain why this is done and why it is done. This is the first time I've seen government signatures in principle. The position of interested authorities. Maybe some department against it, Minfin? What's it written? The position of interested authorities will be known after agreement has been made on the draft law. Friends, do you suggest in the first, in general, if we don't know what position other ministries are in? Regrettably, the level of legal training demonstrated by the government, in other words, does not withstand any criticism. If there's a desire to vote, I don't say in terms of form, I support the Blackwolf, well, at least in the first reading, and continue to correct this story. But basically we need to act as in the next bill that we're going to talk about, make changes to article 2 of this law, and explain why we don't need solicitation. So in form, I'm now oblivious to the content, in form, I think the government has acted quite improperly here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, no one is insisting on the performance? Please, Sergey Gordienka. Then there's the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u93	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I take this opportunity that we're not often talking about mail here in the session room, and I'd like to draw attention, including the deputy minister of infrastructure, to the living of the post office in the rural area. The post office's closing, once. The other one. Working conditions for post office workers in rural areas The program. And especially the letterman's job. As the load increases in the miles that need to be served, the region decreases, and the wages decrease. Today, the mailmen work by 0.4 bets. And it takes over 100 years to earn a pension! And most of all, people are writing newspapers on time. And the post office actually goes once or twice a week. This is a very large and shameful phenomenon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u94	Vladimir Caplienko. Then Sergei Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You know, the representatives of the MPs of Reform for the Future don't see the point of adopting such a bill as a separate law. If the Ukrainian Procurement Act is in force today, it has a corresponding 39 - article, with minor changes to which this matter can be settled. The second question. Why wouldn't we want to vote for this law in principle? Because if it's because we're talking about natural monopolies, about national monopolies, you can tell us how this irreversible organ that is now an operator in this area called Crucifixion is going to be provided. We're sure that it's under Crucifixion that we don't have to make a separate law. There is a logic behind the purchase of goods and services in our country that everyone needs to support. In contrast to the law that we adopted literally yesterday, regarding the support of scientists from purchasing with one participant. We will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u96	Thank you very much. Dear National Deputies! Well, in theory, the law is kind of simple. The stamps are produced in Ukraine only by mail and apparently by buying something from someone. But, well, look, please, it's mail. Let's say that the last report from Milan before, let's say, another lover at the international post office of the ring*** is passed on. And these are international postal missions. And if it's written like this in this law, then they're also getting rid of any tenders. So please, let's do this, if this is about Ukrainian stamps and, you know, envelopes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u97	Thank you. We just don't have time, if there was more, we would, I think, have an interesting topic about lovers and wedding rings that we could develop, of course, and tie it to the law. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole, but since there is a denial, it can only be put on the ground. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee based on the draft Law on the peculiarities of procurement at the state cost of postal services, postage stamps and stamped envelopes. [[Registration number 9519]] Please vote. [[17:48:01]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! What, by factions? Please, by the factions. Region Party – 181, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 4, "The People's Party – 20, non-factional – 10. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts on public procurement is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9634]] The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:48:56]] For 206 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Petrovich Pavlenko. And the co-reporter is the head of the Economic Policy Committee's subcommittee, Anton Volodymyrovich Yacenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on public procurement is proposed. The bill is aimed at improving legislation in the field of public procurement, particularly in the clarification of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers in the exercise of monitoring functions by giving it the right to draw conclusions and recommendations on the elimination and non-admission of violations of public procurement legislation. It is also proposed to establish that enterprises are being purchased in accordance with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act only in the case of government-funded purchases, to introduce the possibility of purchasing under a reduced food and food service procedure, to establish cases of differences in the procurement procedure of one contracting party, to allow rural and rural council members to join the Competition Trade Committee, etc. At the same time, in view of the fact that, according to the law, enterprises are being purchased in accordance with the requirements of the Law on State Procurement, only in the case of such purchases at State expense and in order to avoid a repeated understanding of the law and the code, it was necessary to amend the Economic Code in part of the change in the provision for the purchase of fines, utility, unitary enterprises, economic associations, whose state share in statutory capital was more than 50 per cent. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u99	Yes, Your Honor, the report is complete. The committee will be speaking as I have already announced, Anton Yatzenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u100	Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies! On 10 January, at its meeting this year, the Committee considered the bill and, although there were indeed some comments on its content, the Committee decided to recommend that Parliament accept it as a basis. It should be noted that the scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is of the same opinion. The Committee suggests that the first reading should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this bill. Grivkovsky refuses. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, at one time in this session hall, comments were made at the office of the Ministers of Ukraine regarding the quality of the normative documents that come out of their files. Please take a closer look at this law: the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Well, what changes are made to this law, "On licensing certain types of economic activity"? Well, they're not! What was the purpose of the garden when the previous law more clearly and more transparently spells out all the standards that apply to the relief of private businesses?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u103	Please don't hold back!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u104	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u105	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u106	Please hand over Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u107	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention by continuing the topic of public procurement, in this case the government has gone the right way on a formal basis, and is amending the Public Procurement Act. And I immediately commend the government for taking into account the offer made by our sports community, our committee, especially our interfractional association "Healthy Sports Ukraine" regarding sports competitions, educational assemblies and so on. This was an offer at the time of Tomenka, Paul Costenka, Victor Korzh, Tedeyev, Volkov, and others. But unfortunately, by supporting one of our proposals, the government, under the auspices of all of this, has created about three or four positions that are of a distinctly corrupt nature. Well, tell me, my friends, how without solicitation you can provide purchases, land leases, buildings, other immovable property or property rights to land, buildings, other immovable property. Well, you're laughing! So we're the State Buyer, and we're reading as "a publisher of corruption." You still want all the property, real estate and buildings to come out of the tender purchases. I still understand, food for circus animals. Although we had classics in the Kyiv Zoo that were purchased ten times as expensive. I'll allow you how much this feed will cost the circus animals. So I'm absolutely convinced that a whole series of restrictions that apply to non-produced purchases need to be removed. I understand the argumentability of the sports section and part of the cultural and artistic actions, everything else, is a big warning. But more importantly, we can, in fact, provide the public today only by means of this mandatory information to the publisher of public procurement. Now the law provides for a fearful, I think, from the point of view of corruption, article. It would be interesting to find the author, because the government is such a large institution, collectively, and it would be desirable for one man to find that it is not necessary to publish information on the purchase of a single performer on the web portal of an authorized body. Friends, what are you doing? Now you're going to determine what you can print, what you can't print? It's completely in the shadows to translate a lot of tender purchases. Therefore, we are firmly opposed to the standards that further reinforce the corruption component of solicitation. We have to actively go back, because we have these tender scandals just gone away, let's continue them in the context of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u109	No one insists on the performance anymore?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u110	Teryohin per committee, we need Teryohin. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u111	Please, Terjehohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, there's food for donkeys, perhaps tigers, inexplicably who wrote this law. But look closely, it also says in this project that no information will be published on the sale or purchase of stock values, securities. Look, please. It's after the donkeys the next point goes. So, clearly, this law is corrupt. And one of those today, by the way, Vladimir Mikhailovich was accepted after the actual open road for the privatization of Naftogazu in this path. To an extreme extent, have a conscience, take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u113	Honorable National MPs, discussion of the matter. Well, the faction was already there, but we can't. Well, Hanushkak, please, you're indignant.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u114	More to the point. Gentlemen, this is very intellectual legislation. You can't take the typical forms that apply to purchases. Can't take default forms of contracts, can't take default forms of tender documentation. Can't take the default one. about the tender committee. These are the things that have to be directly in the law at all. Not even under the law. And a lot of problems this law just doesn't solve. Are we finally going to be able to order the purchase of services in a normal way? You can't do things like that. Therefore, it is a bad law that cannot be adopted. It's not intellectual at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. I am voting on the proposal in accordance with the Adoption Rules on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on public procurement issues. [[Registration number 9634]] Please vote. [[17:58:51]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity (new edition) (registration number 9654) is under review. The committee’s request is persistent. [[B in m in s a l in]] Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u116	But the thing is, there aren't 100 articles I can do. They had to write a hundred articles. I would like to vote on the issue of the reduced procedure in accordance with the rapporteur's proposals. [[5:59:52]] For 212 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Petrovich Pavlenko. Coroner is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kseniya Mikhailn Leapina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u117	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the national parliament, your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[Registration number 9654]] The draft law was designed to perform the tasks defined in paragraph 9.8.1 of the National Reform Plan. Amendments to the law are made by introducing it in a new edition, which, compared with the practice of making individual changes, will allow for a comprehensive approach to solving the tasks assigned, solving some problems of a valid regulation, and incorporating in the draft law rules that determine how to further develop licenses in Ukraine. In particular, the draft law provides for a reduction in license periods, through the establishment by the territorial authorities of the central executive authorities and the national college authorities of powers on the issue of licences that give the right to conduct economic activities throughout Ukraine. Shortening of licenses by setting up a five - day period by the licensing authority. Standardization of the principles and procedures for obtaining licences, by licensing 41 and 54 economic activities according to the new law and 13 economic activities according to the rules of special laws, taking into account the rules of the draft law. The harmonization and simplification of the procedure for issuing copies of licences, by regulating them, is separated from the licensing procedure, which will allow for the provision of specific features of such a procedure, the approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of the list of documents added to the application for a copy of the licence, the establishment of criteria for the licensing of a particular type of farm activity and the obligation of the host entity to do so at the time of the licensing of the licence application only after the validity of the relevant licence has been obtained.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u118	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u119	Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u120	Thank you, too. Kseniya Mikhailna Liapina is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u121	Thank you, Your Honor. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 10 January reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. After considering the bill, members of the committee supported the need to improve the legislative order for licensing, but at the same time they drew attention to the following. In fact, the bill does not contain a new concept of licensing. It does not contain any new principles; it does not contain any new powers. In fact, there are several procedural money and no more. So actually, on the big question, can this be called a new law edition at all, because 80 percent of the text is identical. On the subject of some innovations, according to a science-expert authority that has made a serious comment, and some committee members believe that individual articles are even making the licensing situation worse. So, for example, this bill, the Kabin, proposes to introduce such a separate legal status for such a species, even I don't know what to call it, a copy of a license. To date, a copy of the license is just a copy of a document that testifies to the right to do business. If you take the editor proposed by Kabmin, a copy of the license should be given in a separate order. The Cabinet of Ministers must be set up a separate list of documents to be added to obtain a copy of the licence. The license, i.e. the right to operate is granted, and then all of a sudden we have to add some more documents just to confirm that this right is granted. And so on. Moreover, a failure to issue a copy of the licence may be a separate charge in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u122	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u123	Which in itself just confirms the individual legal status of the copy. And so on. So there are a number of issues that not only can make things worse, but they contradict the concepts of the law, the draft Law on Administrative Services, submitted by the President of Ukraine. And this is a conceptually important law that must generally lay down the principles of the various functions of the state, primarily such as granting permits, licenses and other documents to carry out entrepreneurial activities in particular. So we think that on the basis of this bill, well, the committee supported the adoption of this bill. But it is necessary to create a working group with further serious work and to bring it into line with the work of the working group on the Administrative Services Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone insists on talking, please sign up. Well, if not, we'll vote. Please, the Fedun is a party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u125	Did you say no? Grivkowski? Pancakes? Please, Teryokhin faction "BUT is the Fatherland." Then Vladimir Karpuk will perform. Well, I can't see from factions where they didn't go. Let them perform. I'll give it to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u126	Can I? Dear colleagues, we've waited many years for the theory of admission, administrative admission to entrepreneurship to be changed to what the state has, well, let's say, these entrepreneurs care and support. What's here, in this law? It's nothing. So the license, as before, is a license for a person to enter the business. Wrong, since the license should be automatically licensed, that is, automatically licensed, if you want to do something, do it for yourself, dear friend. If your work can somehow affect your health or that, I don't know, the existence of citizens, then you need a license. If the license is broken, you have to get rid of such work with the machine again. What's going on Again, it is written that a bunch of administrative bodies that have license conditions there, which are not established by law, but by legal acts, determine whether anyone can work to earn a living and increase the employment of our people. Jerunda's full. So this law is, frankly, one of the lobbyists that we've adopted today, well, the last two days of purchase, and before we actually have the right to privatize NAC Naftogaz. You can't make that law, well, he does.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u127	Finish, please, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u128	Thank you. Well, it's a law to somehow get people to find a job, not go to the government of Azarov and say, "Give us a job." That's the law against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u129	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u130	Vladimir Karpuk, please pass the word to Alexander the Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u131	Alexander Blackwill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u132	I'd like to agree with Mr. Terjokin, what he's done with, and I want to start with this, which really makes it feel like we have in the Cabinet of Ministers looking for jobs and some departments of the Cabinet of Ministers, or maybe everything is judged by the number of bills that have been tabled, because, well, the benefits of this bill are no one, and the damage is possible. And it's the kind of impression that, you know, the thing is, when people collect fines, they have rules on how to collect fines, so we have a rule in our ministries that no one needs to pass bills. In this case, really, given the observation of scientific expertise, if you look at this law at all, we'll see that it's practically completely consistent with the existing law. This is a copy of an existing law that, by the way, contradicts the instructions of the Ministry of Justice, which should be used primarily by our ministries in their preparation of laws. I would also like to point out that this law is contrary to a number of laws that we have already passed: both on heating supplies and on the principles of the functioning of the gas market, and on drinking water, and on plants, and on plant protection. So we actually see a bill that, in a large part, does not bring anything new, and in the part where it introduces a new one, it goes against other bills. So it's obviously to be rejected, or, at best, it's to be reworked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u133	Thank you, too. No more insistents? The thing is. The factions have already appeared. Well, Tishchenka, please, 30 seconds, because there's already been a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Tishchenko, "BUT is Fatherland", Party of Fatherland. Well, given the number of negative reactions and the Chief Executive, and the committee's observations, and the speakers here, well, such a bill can't be supported, and our faction won't support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m1.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt a bill on the basis of which the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority concludes that the bill should be returned for further work. The voting is regulated by the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, a new edition. Registration number 9654. Please vote. [[18:12:32]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, why don't we take another look? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Let's do it this way. Dear colleagues, I propose, I beg your attention, so that for tomorrow we carry those who haven't considered it to tomorrow. Dear colleagues, there are two minutes left. Okay. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will continue our work in plenary mode. It's going to be "Year of Questions to the Government," then questions, and then we're going to look at bills that we haven't been able to consider today. I'd like the reporters to be ready to report. Thanks for the job.
