ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:10]] They registered cards in the 410 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening administrative responsibility for violating the rules of movement through rail and passenger transport by road, with proposals from the President of Ukraine dated 14.03. In 2012 The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:00:56]] For-183 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Strengthening Administrative Responsibility for Violations of Rail Traffic and Passenger Transport by Road, adopted by the Supreme Council on 23 February 2012, cannot be signed by the Head of State. [[Registration number 8747]] According to the President of Ukraine, the envisaged mechanism for drawing administrative responsibility for breaking the rules of the railway movement is imperfect, and the proposed changes do not address these issues in a comprehensive manner, are systemsless and incompatible with one another. In this way, there will be competition with the code when dealing with the issue of bringing persons to account, and so there is a risk of uneven application of the law and, as a result, a violation of the rights of citizens. I'll stop at the main points of the law. Infringements with a lower degree of social harmfulness offer more severe sanctions than for offences with a higher degree of social harm that violates the principle of social justice. A situation may arise when a person is fined for the same violation in one case and another for the deprivation of the right to drive, which is unacceptable. It is envisaged that the driver’s removal of a vehicle may be paid for a train ride when the movement was banned, which would not conform to the principle of personal responsibility, since the owner and the driver may not coincide. This will apply to the owner of the vehicle, not to the person who committed the offence. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u3	Thank you. Vladimir Olijnik, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection at its meeting on 4 April 2012 considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the strengthening of administrative responsibility for the violation of traffic rules by rail and passenger transport by road]] In detail, the President's representative in the Parliament of Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich stopped at those proposals, and I will not repeat that, because four proposals have been made and they are all supported by the Committee. As appropriate, I ask your colleagues to support the position of the committee of profile and to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for reinforcement (for strengthening administrative responsibility for violations of the rules of movement through rail and passenger transport by road) in a new edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u5	Dear colleagues! We need to vote on the amendments proposed by the President of Ukraine and taken into account by the committee. Puts the vote to the 1st amendment. Please vote. [[16:04:58]] For 237 Correction accepted. It's the vote of the 2nd amendment. Please vote. [[16:05:18]] For 248 Correction accepted. It's the third amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[16:05:37]] For 258. Correction counted. It's the vote of the 4th amendment. Please vote. [[16:05:59]] For 252 Correction accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Strengthening Administrative Responsibility for Violations of Traffic Rules by Rail and Passenger Transport by Road, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. Registration number 8747. [[16:06:47]] For 265 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Articles 43 and 49 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, which has been proposed by the President of Ukraine since 31.01.2012. Dear colleagues, we've been directing this law to work on the committee for its next review. The rapporteur is the head of the committee on freedom of speech for Victor Ukolov, please. Landik, please report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u6	Your Honor! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Freedom of Word and Information at its meeting on 16 May 2012 considered the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Articles 43 and 49 of the Ukrainian Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting, which was back to work with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals made by entities of the law of the legislative initiative, and approved the decision to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject this law. The law provides for the obligation of state and municipal television organizations to provide subtitles or translations of official language in part of the television news, as well as the official reports of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, official reports of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self - government bodies and local executive bodies. On March 22, 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted and supported a proposal by the President of Ukraine that the organizations, irrespective of the form of ownership and subordination, are obliged to subtitle or translate into sign language official messages, films, movies, videos, broadcasts, and broadcasts in order and under conditions defined by the Cabinet. The committee's decision is to reject this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u7	Yes, please, but I can't see. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a committee rejecting the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Articles 43 and 49 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act is based on the vote. [[Registration number 8214]] Please vote. [[16:10:22]] For 254 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on public regulation in the field of municipal services is being reviewed. [[Registration number 10499]] A proposal is made: consideration of the matter under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:10:56]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko. The Coroner is the deputy head of the Igor Lisov Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u8	Honourable voters, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on state regulation in the field of municipal services. [[Registration number 10499]] Ukraine’s waste management system in the markets leads to an unwarranted accumulation of household waste on the site and does not provide for the development of a domestic waste processing market. Thus, it was necessary to create an effective mechanism of government regulation in this area, based on the balance of market interests and consumer interests in providing them with good quality and reasonable prices. The bill will help to improve the efficiency of government regulation and control of natural monopolies in the domestic waste market. The project is designed to amend the laws of Ukraine that are proposed: operations for the processing and disposal of household wastes refer to the sphere of natural monopolies and adjacent markets. To function as a national regulator of natural monopolies’ activities in the field of waste disposal and the regulation of the market for the processing of household wastes on the National Commission for the Regulation of the Municipal Services Market in Ukraine. The bill is called upon to stop the practice of polluting new land with solid household waste dumps. Dear colleagues, please support this legislative initiative and adopt this law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee has made a correction: the committee's report will be the People's Deputy of Maybeard, please, a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy discussed the bill at its meeting yesterday, June 6, 2012. The project proposes to amend the six laws of Ukraine, as well as the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which propose processing and waste disposal operations to refer to the sphere of activity of natural monopolies and adjacent markets. It is also proposed that market regulation functions be transferred to the National Commission for the Regulation of the Local Services Market in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management has made a number of comments, and is proposing that the draft law be rejected as a result of the first reading. Taking into account the need for an urgent solution to the problem of recycling and disposal of household wastes, the Committee, in general, supported the bill's concept because of the need for its substantial work, decided to propose Bill 10499 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of the first reading, to send it to the Committee for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u11	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! I want to speak to everyone in this room again. Because this is a very relevant and important problem, it is about conservation of the environment. It is a civilized way of solving the problem of total pollution and poisoning of Ukrainian citizens with household waste products. And of course, we need to make important decisions. Perhaps on the second reading we need to develop and deepen our work on this problem. But we have to start this movement today. In order for civilized relationships between waste management and consumers using goods, services, and the proper production of garbage, to be organized. This law and the next one that we're going to consider are giving us the opportunity to resolve it in the way that it's done around the world. In Europe, in the United States, in other countries. Where the garbage has already been forgotten. Where garbage is not just buried, it is processed. And that was the idea of the authors of these bills so that the garbage in Ukraine was not produced, not just buried, but processed. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u13	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u14	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, I turn to the memories of my colleagues. Remember, in the former Soviet era, the tablet was often used: “Cleanly not where the methuth is, but where it is not. ” On the one hand, it is just. From his colleague Miroshnichenko, however, gave an example of other countries, where it was really cleaner. So they're not just "not sorry," and they're often the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're the ones who're And the government's function is to help, and not only state, but also the function of local authorities, and central authorities, so that solid household waste is not just a problem, so that they don't become a disaster for Ukraine. Today it is indeed a disaster. And the previous speaker spoke of this as an important and topical problem. That's right. I would add, this is the hottest problem in Ukraine today. And the regulation, the refinement of this market, has 2 functions. It was said, on the one hand, to improve the environment in Ukraine, and on the other hand it is a serious business. This is something that can give governments and local communities money for activities in other areas. In our opinion, according to the People's Party faction, this initiative is an extremely important legislative initiative, we should really thank the authors of this idea, the idea of settlement, the improvement of the domestic services market. But there is still an important aspect. It's that if this system works, this market will work civilly, and the tariffs on utility services when it comes to waste disposal will be reduced. Because these days, they're often dense in many cities, they're not transparent. And that can reduce the cost of our population, of our citizens. I think this bill must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u15	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u16	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear people's deputies, that's all you're talking about right now, I mean the author, Yuri Romanovich, and the preservation of the environment, and everything else -- I didn't see here. He's not here. There's a takeover of authority in the local council, it's here. There's an attempt to regulate everything as hard to imagine, it's also there. There is also a double approach, our respectable Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the consideration of draft laws and to the Rules. Because we rejected the same law on May 17th in this room, May 17th. Now we're looking again. Well, why consider the Denunciation Act with Cyprus? It's got to be worth a lot of money. Why bet? Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The bill is registered, let's consider serious bills, not distract us. Here's the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. He writes softly so, gently: "refuse appropriately." I agree with them: Decline softly. But what I'm stressing is, Adam Ivanovich, when the opposition brings the project, you're going to say, "He was looking over there," and so on. When the authorities bring it, you have everything registered, even though it has recently been rejected. So let's not take a selective approach anywhere, because we have a selective approach here, who made the correction. And the honourable Mr. Chechetov asks, "And whose amendment?" not the substance of the amendment, but whose amendment. "Amendment of Carmazine." "Oh, to reject." I didn't even ask, I looked at the substance of the amendment, and I rejected it only by authorship. My colleagues and I are just upset about what's going on. Never before in the Supreme Council has there been an apparent reason why it could have been called Parliament. It's my fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u17	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u18	I'm in favour of overcoming the waste problem, but I'm against adopting unbalanced bills and not in the way the Rules define. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was proposed on 21.05. There's all the decisions he needs, the committee's decision, it's negative. The recommendations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration are critical. Vladimir Kaplienko, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this bill and we're out of the next one. Well, of course, we view this law as the first step in order to set up a waste disposal system. What do we have today in the state? Tens of thousands of official polygons and so many unofficial ones. There is a so - called link between the polygon, the carrier, and the payer, which has led to the fact that the amount of debris that is exported to the polygons goes beyond the limits of accounting. So this is an additional source of bribes or corruption by local authorities. This is a big business, a corrupt business that has roots, for example, in the United States in the middle of the last century and has the same roots today. We need to put an end to this. And that attempt to centralize price formation in this area is quite positive. It doesn't solve all the questions, but without it, we can't move on in this direction. That's why the MPs will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u21	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u22	Therefore, the MPs will support the bill in both the first and second readings. We consider it essential to the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u23	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. Once again, I remind you that the committee is proposing to be sent to the committee for re-reading. The main scientific and expert administration is more categorical, and it believes that the bill needs to be rejected. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on public service regulation. [[Registration number 10499]] Please vote. [[16:23:35]] For 265 Decision taken. Please, Chechetov. He's entitled to a replica. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u24	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich! Well, once again, we're talking to you with your support. We will probably set up a commission to protect you because you are discriminated against in your native opposition. One or two votes for you when you've been making corrections all night! I'm seeing one more subclavian. You really do speak for yourself. You didn't vote for the language bill yesterday. But you silently supported us. And with your silent moral support, the Language Act has been adopted. How else are you gonna do that? You won't be allowed to live in Odessa. That's why you're absolutely right. And if you're offended, we'll create a TSC, but we'll protect you, Yuri Anatolyevich, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u25	It's being announced. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've been swapping. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you, there will be an opportunity to exchange kindness today. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulatory mechanism and increasing liability in the field of waste management is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10501]] Suggestion: To consider the matter under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:25:20]] For 228 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Miroshnichenko, co-rapporteur of the Anatoly Seminoga Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to say right now that I am in solidarity with Mikhail Vasilovich on the protection of the opposition, its rights and, above all, the right to think and to speak. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulatory mechanism and increasing liability in the field of waste management, [[Registration number 10501]] The issue of improving waste management has become an urgent environmental problem in Ukraine. In the country, there is virtually no infrastructure to deal with hazardous wastes that poses a risk to the environment and people in the process of storing them. This bill is designed for the purpose of structural development of waste management, the introduction of new technologies for solid waste disposal, their maximum re-involvement in trade, as secondary resources and secondary energy sources, and the promotion of environmental investment. The project proposes to amend the Wastes Act to specify the terms in force and introduce new terms, waste treatment services, waste disposal services, the source of household waste, and the responsibilities of legal and physical persons in the area of waste management for the separation of household waste. Services are defined separately for identification, processing, export, and disposal of household waste. In addition, it is proposed that the Code on Administrative Offences should be supplemented by articles on liability for the violation of the requirements of waste management and the violation of the ban on the disposal of unprocessed waste. The introduction of a legislative ban on the disposal of unprocessed waste is a progressive step towards preserving the environment and improving the environmental situation in Ukraine. And in the future, we see a ban.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u27	Finish because Yuri Anatolyevich is already indignant.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, please support the legislative initiative and adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u29	Thank you, too. Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Seminoga. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that this bill was discussed with you on May 17th and we have made a wise decision by the Supreme Council to reject the bill. Again, in violation of the Supreme Council’s regulations, we today consider Ukraine’s law as a repetitive, in such an extreme aberrant order. There's probably some political relevance, but unfortunately, it seems to me that if we start applying political relevance to environmental laws, we, at the very least, manage our country in such a way that it will be impossible to live in. As far as the substance of the bill itself is concerned. I really agree that the problem is serious and needs to be solved. And the main problem today is in waste management -- it's really waste to be translated into secondary resources. But a serious national program is needed. Starting with the environmental training of our citizens for the separation of garbage collection, to stimulate enterprises to create a system that can help recycle and actually create a normal secondary resource market, a waste market. This bill proposes only one thing. Today, he offers these problems, environmental problems, waste problems on the shoulders of our citizens. Because if we used to pay only for the disposal of garbage, then by adopting this law, we'll be paying: first, for the export, for the sorting, for the separation, for the disposal of garbage and for its disposal. So once again, our citizens will be extreme in our country. This will raise prices for utility tariffs, it will raise prices for garbage exports, and again we'll put this situation in a deadlock. Because today our population's purchasing power is very low and we really can't do anything about this bill. For example. We're paying 50 dollars per cube in the country for garbage, 50 euros in Europe, 10 times more, and that's why it's there today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u31	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u32	And that's why it's a profitable business in Europe today. If we are to take this problem seriously, a serious, complex law is being developed in the Ministry of Ecology today to help solve this problem. And this law, by the decision of our committee and the Scientific and Scientific Administration, has to be rejected. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Anyone speaking, please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk, then Zarabinsky. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u34	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Again, as in the previous law, the bill was already under review on May 17 and did not get the required number of votes. And contrary to the Rules, we reenter the session room and reexamine, spend time saying, if you can't, and you want to, you can. If a pre - law disposal operation refers to the activity of natural monopolies, the bill obliges each natural person to conclude a contract with the legal person concerned for the processing, separation and disposal of waste. In doing so, the individual congregation is also divided into citizens, and as the committee concludes, this leads to a significant increase in payments by each individual, each family for export and household, and also by the export of industrial waste. Of course, there's a problem with waste in the country, but I'll remind you what battalions about garbage treatment are in Italy, Naples, when it was contaminated by waste, because the Mafia didn't want to clean up. I mean, there's a lot of interest here. And that's why I end up saying, "If I have approaches, every waste is good revenue." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u35	Oleg Zarubinski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, will push me away from the last phrase. In fact, to have income, you have to do something about waste. Smart people, smart waste countries don't waste, waste doesn't dump, and they don't become manure, they don't become dirt, they don't become something that destroys our ecology. You can look at this problem differently, because really, on the one hand, waste is dirt, it's rot, it's not farsighted, and for the other, waste is what alternative energy is. As the author of the Green Tariff Bill, which enabled renewable energy to develop, I'm just convinced that household waste should become a serious ingredient in order for Ukraine to increase its share of renewable energy. What does it do? Dear colleagues, you are abroad, there are schools, hospitals, huge businesses working on waste treatment, including sorting. Let's always depend on foreign energy carriers, let's do this. But then notice that Germany is now famous for 20 percent of all energy supply at the expense of the green tariff, at the expense of alternative energy, at the expense of both work and waste. By 2050, the European Union decided to have 80 percent of the total energy balance at the expense of renewable energy, the key energy source of which is waste. So we can't vote, because of the prism of criticism, but we have to move forward. We will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u37	Vladimir Caplienko. Please, Vladimir Kaplienko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u38	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction will support this bill. We listened carefully to the comments made by the committee today, but we would like to highlight the following. In the future, there is no alternative to the treatment or treatment of household waste safe or dangerous, except for its actual processing. So that's all you have to do. The second question. It is impossible to raise this compound, which today holds in this direction, without additional investment being involved. And to do that, you have to put an end to that incomprehensible Brown movement that's in this area. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for example, I have two colleagues in Berdichev who have been working together for 10 years to raise the question of how to set up processing companies in Ukraine, specifically on domestic waste. No mayor of Ukraine wants to support, in fact, the free share of the equipment. Why? But it's because they feed on it. Let's break houses like this. We'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u39	Vitaly Zuravsky, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u40	Dear colleagues! I can tell you by 100 percent, the one who worked in the big cities, in the executive structures, they're going to be two hands behind this bill. It was our colleague, Oleg Zarubinsky, who placed quite a lot of emphasis on this issue. Of course, those who engage in populism will vote against it. What is it? It's about investing in cities, it's the first time there's not enough. And in short, this bill creates the conditions for maximizing the re-introduction of waste into trade as secondary resources and alternative sources of energy. Our faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Regarding the comments that this bill repeats the previous bill, which did not get the required number of votes. It should be noted that during the registration of these documents, employees leave the title of the law rather than analyze its contents, and it's not their business, it's actually the committee. So I would like to ask the Supreme Council's apparatus to study this matter more thoroughly to minimize the comments made by the national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft law, and I remind you that the conclusions and the committee, and the scientific expertise, are negative. [[Registration number 10501]] Please vote. [[16:37:49]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Waste Act. [[on medical waste]] Suggests that the committee consider the issue of the reduced procedure, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[16:38:22]] For 222 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources Murmul Dmitri. The Coroner is the head of Anatoly Seminoga's committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u42	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Ukrainian Act amending article 31 of the Waste Act, designed to implement paragraph 7 of the Ukrainian President's mandate of 30 May 2011 to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of State policy in the field of waste management. And paragraph 107.3 of the 2012 National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Economic Reform Programme and 2010-2014: "Affordable society. A competitive economy. Effective State", approved by Presidential Decree of 12 March 201 2 years after 187/2012. In Ukraine, 380,400 tons of medical waste are produced each year, of which 100,120 tons are dangerous. A good indication of medical wastes from others is the high degree of transmission of their pathogenic microflora, which is the main cause of these wastes being placed in a dangerous category. Medical waste is a direct and indirect risk of environmental pollution, infectious and non-infectious diseases among the population. Thus, the World Health Organization carries medical waste to a dangerous group. And it recommends the creation of special services for processing. In view of the above, the bill proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant central executive authorities be empowered to establish a system of collection, removal, disposal, disposal, disposal, and disposal of wastes that are generated in the process of providing health care for people, veterinary services associated with such research. The adoption of the law will contribute to the creation of an effective system.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u43	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u44	With medical wastes, increased state control over their collection, removal, disposal and disposal. Reducing the negative impact of hazardous medical wastes on the environment and human health, thanks to the introduction of new modern, highly effective methods of disposal of medical wastes according to modern environmental protection requirements. We propose to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u45	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to establish a system of collection, disposal, disposal, disposal, and disposal of wastes that are formed in the process of providing health services to people associated with such research. The implementation of the bill does not require additional funding from the state budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office generally supports this bill. The committee considered the bill at its meeting. And since the bill is short, it consists of only one sentence and proposes to add the phrase on waste to the waste law of the medical institution itself, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted as a law today as a whole. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u47	Thank you. Please sit down. Are there those who want to vote or are we going to vote? Vote. Yuri Anatolyovich, I'll give it to you later. Yes, then sign up. Don't. Yes, please, Zuravsky. After him, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Let's be honest. There is no proper control of medical waste in Ukraine. So this bill is short but very relevant. Its acceptance will allow for order in this area. That is to strengthen real state control over waste disposal, storage and so forth. The faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u49	Yes, please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u50	Please hand over Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u51	Thank you, Volodymyr Karpuk. Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders Dear Adam Ivanovich! I wanted you to hear again, you meet the government there often. We can't see your prime minister, he's closed to the national deputies. I have a file that contains everything we need to contact the Prime Minister, but he's the Prime Minister, not Ukraine, he's just the Prime Minister's Party of Regions. As a result, honourable Adam Ivanovich, I have been wanting to join the Prime Minister of Ukraine for more than two years at the reception, guaranteeing, by exercising my constitutional law, that is what I say to Sukhmu. And I say we have today the Prime Minister of the Party of Regions, not Ukraine. I'm talking about Azarov. So, let's think about it, well, we're still writing down the Cabinet of Ministers in 31 articles, the whole government is changing where it gives us something else we need to develop systems for compiling, utilizing. Yeah, you should. You have to. But what, this is such a small norm that's being introduced, five pieces of everything, just like Seminoga said right. This is the subject of consideration for the Supreme Council as a whole? Well, what are you laughing at? After this attitude towards the Supreme Council itself, which turns itself into garbage, you have to go to a history dump. We do. These laws have transformed all laws, instead of a comprehensive approach, instead of codifying, systematizing legislation, instead of considering serious problems, instead of considering in order to control government, how it works on a situation that has arisen in a state, we are considering such ridiculous laws. That's why we're going to back up or not back up. There's no harm in that. Let's write it down, vote and support it in two readings. We won't deny it. But this is the approach to lawmaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u52	Yes, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. On the one hand, you're absolutely right. On the other hand, I'd like to ask, and you're the vice prime minister of what shadow government?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u53	Not a shadowy one, but an opposition one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u54	Ah, the opposition. Right. Right, right. Yes, the discussion is over. Dear colleagues, well, I understand, you do realize that the bill does not cause any, well, political coloring, it's purely life and life, and there's nothing to talk about except Yuri Anatoliovich. If he had not criticized the Prime Minister, he would have said nothing more. That's why I'm voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u55	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u56	Then, tomorrow. You said the right thing, but tomorrow we'll have a line. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Act on Amendments to Article 31 of the Ukrainian Waste Act. [[on medical waste]] [[Registration number 10555]] Please vote. [[16:47:19]] For 272 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Law on Prices and Prices is under consideration. [[Registration number 9361]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:47:47]] For 211 Supported. Please, Maksuta Anatoly Arkadyovich. Get ready for Platoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted a draft Law on Prices and Prices. The bill provides for a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices and the Harmonization of the Standards of this Law, the Master Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences. The main questions to be answered by this law are: the need for a clear definition of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the executive authorities and the local authorities in the pricing field, the need for a clear definition of how to regulate prices, the order of supervision of pricing activities, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of Public Oversight, Economic Control, in particular the definition at the legislative level of State price control bodies, their authorizations, ways to exercise State oversight, control, sanctions for violations of pricing legislation and the list of violations which are the basis for applying to administrative sanctions. The draft law sets out the reasons for the introduction of state price regulation, the types of government price regulation, the manner in which they are applied, the competences of the Cabinet of Ministers and the executive authorities and local self-government in this area. In order to respond quickly to changes in the price situation in the relevant commodity markets, the bill sets out the principles and procedures for State price observations in the form of price monitoring and the components of the bill, including the collection of information. In order to ensure the continued fulfilment of the pricing requirements, the draft law establishes a differentiated administrative and economic responsibility. Article 16 defines the organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u58	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u59	The request is to uphold the law. based on the base. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u60	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Plonikov Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u61	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! On June 1, 2012, the government registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on prices and pricing. [[Registration number 9361]] The draft law provides grounds for the introduction of state regulation of prices, tariffs, wages, rates or assemblies, in addition to rates and congregations used in the taxation system; types of government price regulation, order of application, differential administrative and market methods. In addition, the law distinguishes the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers, the executive authority, local self-government and other bodies; establishes a differentiated administrative and economic responsibility for its violation and sets out a clear list of types of violations. In order to ensure the harmonization of the regulations established by the draft law and other normative acts, amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Master and the Code of Administrative Offences are envisaged. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of comments on the bill. At the same time, the Economic Policy Committee of June 5, 2012, reviewed the amended bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council here as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Vitaly Corge, "BUT" faction is "The Fatherland." Catherine Vaschuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u63	Please give the floor to colleague Hanushtak Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u64	Yuri Hanustak, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, it's not as simple a project as he seems to be on the side. Well, first of all, authorized authorities, the question is, why the one? Who's going to work in places? Units of an authorized body? Question: Who makes the decision? Unit? A division does not have the right to make decisions, that is, all decisions must be made at the central level if there is only one authorized body. By the way, the same mistake, the problem is that there's a package of bills that you've been looking at on Tuesday that's all about centralization, that's where the decision-making bodies actually don't. It's supposed to be on the mountain itself, so there's no document to sign in the territory, it's absolute nonsense, it's hypercentralization. Second, why is there a DABI, a state architectural and construction inspection? There may be only one authorized body for. Price control. Because if we give someone else, let's say that there's a whole bunch of funding, and so on, then there's going to be a whole bunch of famous bodies that can also claim to control pricing, and that's perfectly logical. So there has to be a scheme that's used in the area of financial control. There is an organ of the KRU and there are law enforcement authorities. And they pass it on to each other and then they work normally. That's different. You'll see what authority: to conduct a pre-planned test. Is that a new tax? And the fines go up just amazing. Let the electorate hear me that we are now bearing fruit. It's going to be a new monster. Sorry, you can't vote on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u66	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, you remember when we adopted many laws, reformers, so - called markets, restricting the various functions of public authorities in controlling prices, said market economies required this. We have come to realize that the State has limited its influence on government pricing policy to the minimum. When we analyzed the experience of other nations, it turns out that in the most developed countries of the world, such as Japan, the United States, in European countries, such appointments of products, particularly in the agricultural, food, dozens of which prices are regulated by the intervention of authorized authorities. And that's right. Because it's not just price policy, it's politics and social policy, it's a policy to support the internal market and all that. And it can move in other directions. And I'm interested here, and we're working on the second reading, and there's also a note of analytical management to make sure that prices are controlled not only on the way out, but also price formation on the way out. So the peasants get the minimum price, some profit is the processor, and all the vertices, all the verbs get the one who ultimately sells the product. So at the time of pricing, the government has to regulate the percentage of revenue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u68	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u69	. The percentages of the profits of each activity subject will depend on the work involved, and the price will be lower, fair, and the government will act in the interests of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u70	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u71	The opposition government will be called the debutante Vladimir Lanovius.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u72	Vladimir Timothy Lanovius, please. What has been introduced into the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u73	Deputies! Unfortunately, I have some unpleasant things to say, because this bill shows the uncertainty of the authority to control the economic situation and is going to apply administrative procedures. And as you know, the administration of prices, the setting of their ceilings, usually on one side, leads to the disappearance of certain socio-significant types of goods from the shelves. We've been through this before. Secondly, the method by which prices are proposed is very much repeated by the Soviet period when prices are set in accordance with costs and profitability is established there. So it's probably going to be a boost to price increases, especially in the areas of the economy such as housing services and energy services. The rise in prices for gas imported into Ukraine will lead to legal pressure on the price of this gas for all other industrial, municipal, housing, and social consumers. So, unfortunately, it's a very questionable attempt. I don't think I'm going to be able to take this approach in the economy, although, in fact, the control apparatus is going to grow, we're going to produce officials, they're going to find a job, even though their reports won't match reality, because during the day, the seller can vary the price and no one will trace the price.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u74	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u75	That's why we're creating fiction, and in the worst case, we're going back to the Soviet command and administrative economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management has certain observations. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u77	Thank you, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished voters! Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. What the government is proposing is not going to happen for one reason. What Makes Prices Grow? For a few reasons? The first is high taxes. The second is a regulated economy where entrepreneurs have to pay bribes for years in order to obtain the necessary licences. And the third is a monopoly, it's an abuse. The bill proposed by the government does not solve any of these problems. The government doesn't offer to lower taxes, the government doesn't regulate monetary policy with Nazbank to give cheap loans. The government is opening up an internal market for imported straw, which is sold three ways here, and the government is not making sure that there are no monopolistic plots. Instead, the government proposes to ban, not to let go. The problem of pricing is that people are crying about prices. It's you government officials who don't know why in stores what goods, because you have everything on the government account, and it's simple people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u78	Thank you. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u79	So the way out of this situation must be radical and simple. Radical tax cuts, cheap loans, restrictions on country access and economic deregulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u80	Thank you. And I'm going to add to that, and I'm going to join the Radical Party. Honorable National MPs. It's not advertising. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law on Prices and Price Creation. [[Registration number 9361]] Please vote. [[17:01:49]] For 261 Decision taken. Respectful colleagues, given the relevance and importance of this subject, are urging the Cabinet of Ministers to shorten preparations for second reading, since we cannot accept it immediately as a law, bearing in mind the remark. So I'm voting on the proposal to have the committee prepare for the second reading of the draft short-term bill. Please vote. [[17:02:29]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 259 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the increase of responsibility for knowingly false reports of the threat to the safety of citizens. [[Registration number 10553]] It is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. [[17:03:03]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Interior Viktor Ivanovich Ratushnjak. The reporter is Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! It is proposed to consider the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Criminal Code on the Strengthening of Responsibility for knowingly False Reports of the Threat to the Security of Citizens. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was introduced. [[Registration number 10553]] Article 259 of the Code lays down responsibility for knowingly false reports of threats to the safety of citizens, destruction, or damage to property. However, as law - enforcement practices show, the penalties imposed for this crime are low and do not ensure that the above tasks are carried out. In recent times, reported crimes have become commonplace. As a result, a society creates a climate of general fear, uncertainty, panic, distrust of authorities. According to court statistics, according to reports from the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration, there has been a steady increase in the number of persons in recent years, and the court's rulings have been based on the articles referred to in the article on which they have gained legal power. If they were 32 in 2009, in 2010 they were 42 in 2010, and in 2011, 62 in 2010. Compared with 2009, the number of people convicted of the crime has doubled. Associated with, including, the making of a false report of the preparation of an explosion, arson, or other such acts again. If in 2009, four people were convicted of such acts, in 2010 and 2011, 8 more people were convicted. This is evidenced by the lack of legal remedies in the existing sanctions of article 259 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to ensure that one of the main tasks of criminal responsibility is carried out. As one of the most important forms of criminal influence, the correction of convicted persons and the prevention of new crimes, both by themselves and by others. Part two of article 50, part two of article 65 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. It also makes it impossible to implement the preventive function of criminal responsibility. In order to reduce the incidence of false information about the threat.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u83	and the economics of the material and other resources of the public authorities associated with the verification of such information and the removal of the negative effects of its distribution are proposed. Increase the sanctions for part one of article 259 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code from 2 to 6 years of imprisonment, and part two from 4 to 8 years of imprisonment. The implementation of the prepared project will not require additional costs from Ukraine’s State Budget. Please support as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u84	Thank you, you too. Have a seat, please. Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement, reports on the committee’s decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u85	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, Committee on Law Enforcement, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 259 of the Criminal Code on Strengthening Responsibility for the Presumptively False Report on the Threat of Citizens’ Security. The bill proposes to significantly strengthen, in the event of a knowingly false report of the threat to the safety of citizens by excluding from the sanctions of article 1 the article cited, alternative forms of basic punishment such as fines, arrests and restrictions of will, while establishing an alternative type of penalty of deprivation of liberty for a term of 2 to 6 months. Explaining the need for the adoption of this law, the subject of the legislative initiative notes that in recent years there has been an increase in the number of crimes and judicial decisions found. That is, of the more than 300 crimes committed, we have 32 sentences in 2009 and 62 sentences in 2011. And this, according to the author of the legislative initiative, shows the lack of sanctions currently in force in article 259. In support of the need to make changes to article 259, members of the committee noted that this would significantly increase the number of juveniles attracted to responsibility who would not have an alternative and who would be sentenced to a real term of deprivation of liberty, which we consider to be inappropriate. As practice has shown, a simple increase in punishment, especially in the form of free will, does not reach the stated goal. In view of this, the committee and the position of the Scientific and Expert Directorate on the drafting of the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, on the first reading of the draft bill, and to entrust the committee, when preparing for the second reading, not only to amend article 259, but also to dispose of this article, and so we will regulate the proposed bill and this gap. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, shall we vote whether there are any observations? Please write it down. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, of course, this is an issue that needs to be addressed in a stately manner. You can see that with the number of media outlets, there are very often reports of phone calls that are not true about the disappearance of one or more objects. And it's not just economic damage. Because according to all the rules, the message is followed by the evacuation of those who work there. Businesses are being handled to detect such explosive devices. But this is especially harmful to those who suffer from heart disease. This, of course, creates social tension in society. And after those events in Dnipropetrovsk, where there were actual acts of such terrorism in relation to the population, we need to think about increasing responsibility for these jokes. And in this respect, one form, because it has to be a complex approach, of course, is to increase responsibility and change sanctions for similar actions. I agree with what needs to be seen and about changing the scope of the article itself. Because it is so prescribed that these notoriously false reports may need to be changed a little bit and talk about deliberate reports of threats to the safety of citizens, destruction, or damage to property. Parents ’ responsibility should also be considered. When teenagers joke in such a way that they are responsible for raising their children in order to influence their children. And in general, I agree with what needs to be taken as a basis, worked out and adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u88	Anatoly Griesenko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Zarubinski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u89	Dear colleagues! I firmly oppose the adoption of this law. Well, first of all, let's stop juggling terrorism. There was no terrorism in Dnipropetrovsk. If anyone does not know, let him read the definition of terrorism and appropriate legal practice. Stop scaring our citizens. That's the first one. The other one. Consider what is being offered. Young people, who for various reasons may have hormones playing, who called and joked, do not even have the ability to arrest or pay a fine. They're planted immediately, irreplaceable. As soon as young people end up in prison, the whole of Ukraine now knows. Stop!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u90	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u91	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I am firmly in favour of adopting this bill, but with some changes. Why Strongly? I'm opening an explanatory note, 11 in a schematic. The adoption of the bill will lead to fewer cases of false information spreading about the threat of criminal abuse and, attention, the economics of the material and other resources of public authorities associated with the verification of such information and the removal of negative consequences. Dear colleagues, perhaps we should add "the harm done to people's health" to thousands of people. Imagine the situation. School replacement information: first graders, second graders, third graders Your parents will find out. Who calculated how much they are losing health at this point? Who calculated the number of heart attacks and strokes that occur when people find out that their relatives are in the hospital and that the hospital has announced that it has been replaced? So let's be clear that, you know, humanism can be manifested here, but humanism can be shown to humane people. The other thing here is that there's really no alternative to just getting rid of the will. But on the other hand, the fine, the honourable colleagues, the fine, usually meager, gives nothing. When a person causes such serious consequences. I say first of all, not even for material things, not for what the state spends, but for the health of people, relatives, mothers, parents. I don't think a fine is right here. For the second reading, it may be necessary to differentiate this punishment from 2 to 6 years of age, and it may be possible to differentiate, including the age of the person who committed the crime. But no fines, no fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u92	Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u93	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, in lands where the facts of terrorism or some extremist act actually take place. On the contrary, the police urge citizens to be careful, to be alert, to report things to the police. If such a very serious law were to be enacted, wouldn't any Ukrainian citizen, even if he saw a suspicious subject or saw some suspicious action, just wouldn't want to report it? After all, in case of mistakes, he will simply be tried and sentenced to prison. Why is that necessary in our police force, I don't quite understand. The Dnipropetrov fact, the glory of God, the one and probably his, will not be repeated. But the alertness of citizens in this troubled world must be and should not be overridden by the adoption of such bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u94	Yes, please, Mikhailo Chechetov, then Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u95	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, people don't understand us anymore, they say, "Parliament of Mountain stands for the protection of criminals, corrupts. Here he defends through European courts, and so on. And who, he says, protects us, the common people? Give us a basic order." Therefore, we must put into the hands of law enforcement agencies actions and mechanisms of influence to quickly, expeditiously, strictly, where necessary, and to cruelly prevent such things from coming into the hands of others. I think such a law will be adopted under the applause of the people. Some politicians may not vote, but the people are in favour of this law, because they say that we have an unclear situation: power protects corrupters, protects criminals, and does not think about the people. This is the law for the people. He will protect the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u96	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u97	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will certainly support this bill and will do so absolutely consciously, because today the population of Ukraine, our voters are tired of the disgrace, of the impunity that exists in the state. And so we really need to increase the responsibility for this kind of manifestation. And to those who talk about non-alternative punishment, I want to say, this should be an alternative. Don't do that, and you won't get to play, you won't get that punishment. But what I want to say is that making a change to legislation is only half the case. There is a need for a very active explanatory work, especially among young people, so that young people realize that these jokes in their minds can come to a serious end. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u98	Thank you. Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u99	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, when we were looking at this bill, we came to the conclusion that it was really ambiguous. On the one hand, it’s pretty terrible to even imagine a situation where a big stadium is torn down, such as a competition just because someone was playing. But that's the responsibility. That's a fact. Of course, this law on terrorism has no bearing on it, but the preceding days of such great events in Ukraine, particularly the Euro-2012, such a law is right and necessary. But there's another side. I support, on behalf of the group, the position of Shevchuk, who has just expressed the following: What about those who have information and who have an assumption of danger? In what way did he determine that he had violated this existing legislation? Why does he have to sit in the shop for that? What should be done with those who today seem to manifest such, you know, public consciousness, but will be deprived of such a right precisely because of debasing due to criminal liability? The second reading needs to be processed and a differentiated system introduced. And there must be fines and bonds and discipline.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I must say that the National Security and Defence Council discussed the problem of further developments after what took place in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. And I think we shouldn't be here telling each other stories about someone seeing something and calling anonymously. If a person sees that he is in danger, in his view, an object or a package, or a suitcase, he will likely call and ask to check the appropriate services. Why did this question arise? Because after what happened in Dnipropetrovsk, mass, I'm underlining, the right statistics came up, the calls started ringing with substitution messages and all that, and you know exactly what that leads to. And let us, dear fellows, not do what we do here. For in all the countries, let us say what legislation is in all the countries and will be brought into line, in European countries. Because today there's nothing to do, how to do anything that responds to anonymous calls, because the father refuses to take the baby home, so he's on the phone to replace the kindergarten. In a different mood, because he was hunting with his wife, he reports that he was replaced by an airport. And it's all blocked out. It's getting paralyzed, and we're telling each other here that something's wrong in our country. I understand that there will always be politics here. So let's make a clear decision. A motion for approval of the Ukrainian Act amending article 259 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code to increase liability for the alleged false report of the threat to the safety of citizens is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10553]] Please vote. [[17:20:30.]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on responsibility for the illegal treatment of weapons and explosive materials]] [[Registration number 10325, 10554]] Ladies and gentlemen, here are two bills, i.e. they're essentially alternative. We'll look at them. Suggestion: To consider the matter under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:21:21]] For 207 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, since Victor Schemchuk will be speaking from the committee and as the author, let the Deputy Minister speak first and then Victor Schemchuk. Rat Victor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u101	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Imperfectity of criminal legislation in part of the established ban on illegal operations with cold firearms, in addition to smooth and hunting supplies, explosives and devices, as well as the recently organized and conducted 27 April series of explosions in Dnipropetrovsk with severe consequences for citizens require immediate action to improve the legal regulation of the sphere, social relations. The aim of the proposed draft Ukrainian law is to improve criminal law on liability for crimes related to the illicit circulation of firearms and cold weapons, ammunition, explosives and explosive devices. The bill proposes that such changes be made to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Establish criminal responsibility for kidnapping, possession, demand for essential parts of firearms other than smooth-walled, hunting, assembly and components of explosives, explosive devices. Establish criminal responsibility for carrying, storing, acquiring, transferring or unloading essential parts of firearms other than smooth-walled and hunting, kitting and components of munitions, explosives, explosive devices. The crime envisioned in article 263 of the Criminal Code is proposed to refer to a heavy category by establishing the responsibility of depriving them of their liberty for a term of three to seven years. This will allow Ukraine to conduct investigative actions in the course of the investigation of these crimes after the new Criminal Procedure Code has become effective. To supplement the Code with a new article 263-1, "Illicit manufacture of weapons, ammunition or explosives." Part one of the first new article 263-1 of the Criminal Code proposes the establishment of criminal responsibility for the illegal processing, repair and manufacture of weapons, its essential parts, ammunition, explosives, explosive devices, their components, and the provision of penalties for their actions in the form of deprivation of liberty for a period of 3 to 7 years. Qualified by the elements of this crime, we can rediscover his actions by means of a previous conspiracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u102	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u103	And an organized group. Amendments to article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the investigation of crimes, provided for in the new article 263-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, are proposed to refer to the powers of the internal investigation authorities. The adoption of the Ukrainian Criminal and Procedural Codes Act will result in increased responsibility for crimes related to weapons, ammunition, explosives and the establishment of responsibility for actions related to their main parts, components and components, which will be additionally safe to commit such crimes. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u104	Thank you. Victor Viktorovich, please have four minutes on the bill and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u105	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We fully support the opinion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs that criminal responsibility for crimes involving the illicit circulation of firearms, explosives, and their components should be strengthened. But given what is being offered today by the Cabinet of Ministers, tomorrow any person who has a mobile phone that can be viewed as a device to detonate one or another of the remote explosives can be considered part of an explosive device. On the other hand, each grandfather or invalid can be counted with a gun and be held accountable. So four or three months ago, I developed a bill that was submitted for consideration, and it was on the committee's agenda until yesterday. Yesterday, in view of the introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of a bill that could be considered an alternative, it was decided to consider the bill I had submitted. The bill provides for increased criminal responsibility for the commission of crimes related to the illicit circulation of weapons and the illicit circulation of cold firearms, provides for the division of article 263 into two components, which would provide for the separate commission of crimes provided for in article 263 in the field of firearms and explosives, and article 263 with badge 1, which would provide for responsibility for the commission of crimes committed in the field of cold weapons. The committee at yesterday's meeting, having considered both bills and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and which I submitted, concluded that the bills in question were essentially alternatives. The aim of the Cabinet Bill is to improve criminal law rules on liability for crimes related to the illicit circulation of firearms and cold weapons, ammunition, explosives and explosive devices. In addition, there is a need, which has been most controversial, for the imposition of criminal responsibility for the commission of crime in connection with the processing of repairs, the manufacture of weapons and essential parts of munitions, explosives, explosive devices, their components and components. Having examined the proposed bill, the committee believes that the drafters of the bill have made a mistake that cannot be rectified in the future, taking into account the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, namely: they have established criminal responsibility for the acquisition of carry, storage, transport, and other components of weapons such as frames, prisons, drums, trunks, and others. According to members of the committee, the proposed changes would not contribute so much to the fight against illicit arms, substances, and objects that pose an increased danger to the environment, but would lead to the fact that tens of thousands of ordinary citizens, weapons collectors, and others who legally possess arms models, their parts, could not only be criminalized but would also receive real terms of imprisonment. Moreover, the severity of the penalty in the form of a deprivation of liberty for a period of 3 to 7 years, and under qualified circumstances up to 15 years is too high for such crimes. In view of this, a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and on the basis that there is a decision by the Scientific and Experimental Authority on this matter, the committee proposes to reject. Instead, he suggests that the bill of the national deputy Shemchuk be supported in the first reading. And from myself, I can say that I am ready to take into account the positive aspects of the draft bill for second reading, which are in the law passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, if that is your will. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u106	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Vladimir Oilynik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u107	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The questions put into the agenda in the form of bills are extremely relevant. We see a global trend that today is increasing the concern of the world community over the vast number of weapons and the violations that are in this area. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine is willing to support at least one, although another, bill, because they are in some way identical, in some way alternative. But both are aimed at increasing responsibility and standardizing commitments in this area of activity. Indeed, we need to think very seriously about this today, for today there is an extraordinary number of illegal practices, crimes involving firearms. Moreover, we need not only to increase the responsibility for this category of crimes, but also to increase public propaganda about the handling of weapons, so that people can clearly understand that they always have an alternative, or not resort to any illegal practices in the use of weapons, or respond in accordance with actual legislation. And what I want to say is that increasing responsibility in this area should be, if you want, a bell for that part of our colleagues who are asleep and seeing the Act on the Extension of Firearms. We know that there have been many similar ideas in this room, both outside and out of the room, and there have been corresponding bills. Dear colleagues, you and I are not behind the wall, we see what is happening in the world and we see what a huge danger they are carrying. Thus, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will definitely support these bills because they are aimed at strengthening them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u108	Thank you. Vladimir Olijnik faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of Regions will support the government bill and that's why. We must guard the interests of law - abiding, good - mannered citizens. We need to fight those who break the law and, in particular, smuggle weapons, steal these weapons. But we also need to fight against the globes in this area, which produce the right components of this weapon, or they're being adopted, they're being kidnapped. And that's why this bill is aimed at combating the proliferation of firearms and also of explosive devices. Of course, this bill needs to be improved. As this bill clearly defines what the main parts of firearms are. And there's a new line of article 263 with badge 1, which indicates that these are related to them: the trunk, the lock, the drum, the box frame. Of course, it is necessary and necessary to specify what the components and components of explosive devices and substances are. Because these may include both seliter and aluminum powder and other devices, it is necessary to clarify to avoid this, you know, a wide variety of interpretations of these standards. We think that we need to adopt this bill as a basis, to work on it, and this is a bill that the State needs to adopt today, because it is aimed at ensuring national security in society.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u110	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u111	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT - "Fatherhood", Equality. Dear colleagues, I would like to hear the entire Ukrainian society, including those mentioned here. I want to tell you about this and let you know that all 100 percent of those outside this room who own mobile phones can be criminalized under this law, as the mobile phone today is being used as a detonator to explosive devices. Are you all ready for this? Ready. So what I'm saying is that laws aren't being passed today, not tomorrow. And when there's general paranoia there and someone's supposed to be shot, well, I'm not going to be there falling off of an egg there and so on. But think about what we're doing. So that's what the ingredients are. The gun layout is the one that's whole, with a sawed-off gun that's completely dangerous when you take off the drum from there, you'll be subject to a criminal article. This time. That's different. Exceptionally, only from the entire assembled form can a crime be committed when it is used, let’s say, in defeat. So actually, what's now being proposed is nothing other than one of the other methods of fighting a particular kind of opposition, incompatible, drug-throwing. Now the ingredients will drop. You're going to find a spring of some kind, and it's going to look like a feedback spring -- it's like a military spring, I'm telling you, you're already under this article, 15 years old. Then let's turn on the cell phones, not use them, and sit around and wait for the terrorist to be there or not. Do not give birth to terrorism itself. This law must be rejected. And there's a normal Bill by Victor Schemchuck, please implement on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u112	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u113	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Ladies and gentlemen, I have dedicated three years of my life to working on a criminal code. And for me to read something new, which turns out to be, we need article 263 prime. "The illicit manufacture of weapons, ammunition or explosives." Whoever wrote this should be deprived of their diploma. Because one of the forms of objective crime envisaged in the first article 263 of the 11 - year - old Criminal Code is the manufacture and repair of firearms, ammunition, explosives, or explosive devices without legal authorization. I mean, it's all settled long ago! And the government's third-class justice adviser, Shemchuk, knows about it. And that's why he said it so softly to you, so softly! I may have said it more harshly. Because it doesn't come, I see, to many. They say we'll support the government. It doesn't matter what it says! But we'll support the government. With regard to the warnings that the People's Deputy Prokopchuk has now expressed. Absolutely correct example with a spring. We didn't agree, I had the same thing written down, different associations. Because of this project, which is proposed in this case by the national deputy Shemchuk and the committee, to the honor of the committee, the committee of Victor Sweden, I want to say completely balanced, it would satisfy all the law enforcement organs and the fight against terrorism, and with everyone else. You don't have to play politics here, ladies and gentlemen. You don't have to play here in 1937. Completing is such a concept, you know, scary. And come on, we can't bring criminal responsibility for these things. Just the things that are predicted, which right now, by the way, and the scientists wrote us the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u114	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Your position is correct. Oleg Zarubinski, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u115	Dear colleagues! Just one minute, so just two questions. First. Let me tell you, Comrade Cibenko, that all philosophies and understanding on the grounds that in Ukraine we have to allow mass use of firearms is a path to nowhere and a path to chaos. In the United States, firearms are allowed to be purchased freely. This is how statistics show, and they themselves acknowledge that in the United States the largest number of convicted and imprisoned people in the world is 100,000. They're even ahead of China. That's what they're trying to raise, which is exactly what you said. Well, second question. Rather, it was really a question, I wanted to break it. Cold weapons and firearms. Where do guns with rubber bullets go? To this day, we know that many crimes are committed by such pistols as drivers, when fighting, in the family circle, in life, and so forth. Because we know that one foot from here, this bullet is directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u116	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u117	Well, actually, I'm done. I'd like to hear where the bill refers to this gun that leads to death, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u118	Honorable National MPs. No, that's what they've done. It wasn't called. I didn't call your last name. No, it's not. Well, I am. Well, you didn't. He was going to Peter Zibank, talking about Peter Zibank, not you. Well. Please. Baby, please. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u119	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Oleg Zarubinsky’s colleague rightly says that the more weapons, the more chaos. But we're talking about people out there having weapons and, you see, they're dangerous. When do these so - called law enforcement officers abuse weapons? I want to tell you, a few days ago, I kept quiet about it, I didn't specifically say it, I'm going to tell you. A few days ago, I was on my way back from Donetsk. On the route from Borispol to Kiev, he cuts through a road car, takes everything on video, lowers the glass, and puts a gun with a mouse on me because I was driving a car. For what? For not taking the road. As I then found out, it was one car, just like I did. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout, don't shout! As I then found out, it was a car for the protection of one of the directors of the Attorney General’s Office. What's going on? When a gun is drawn and threatened on the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u120	Dear National Deputies! Please! Time's up, come on, please. As one man once said, do not abuse. Please. Yuri Prokopchuk, Karmazin called it. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u121	Dear colleagues! I'd like to appeal here, really, to reason, to express myself in a clear language. Why, for once again, laws are passed not today nor tomorrow. And in every faction there are experienced law enforcement officers, all factions have lawyers, law enforcement practitioners. And practices know that it is criminals who tend to commit crimes with weapons stolen, unregistered. And it is a citizen of Ukraine who is completely limited to even make any resistance to it. There's no need to be philosophical about what happened out there in America. There are actually no crimes like this. And if someone has a problem with their brains, yes, as was the case in one of the European countries, it is not necessary to issue these weapons and legitimize them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u122	Dear National Deputies! We have completed our consideration of the matter. It is, in fact, sensitive and many warnings that have been made, they are right. And the question is, what are the main parts? If it's a set of basic parts, which we get a rifle or a machine gun, then it's obviously a responsibility call. Because there may be, as we are told, abuse very often. So, dear fellows, let's do it this way. I will now put to the vote these bills that the Supreme Council will support. It is important that the committee further elaborate the bill, taking into account the proposals contained in the same bill. According to the registration, the draft law is the first to be voted on. [[registration number 10554, this is government.]] The committee decided to reject the government bill and to accept it. No, I'm sorry, dear colleagues. The first is the bill of the national deputy Shemchuk, and the second bill is the government bill. [[10325]] [[10554]] The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of bill 10325, i.e. the parliamentary bill; 10554, to reject. That is also the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please take this into account when making a decision. A proposal for acceptance is put to the vote on the basis of Project 10325. [[MP]] [[17:44:19]] For-68 The decision is not taken. A proposal for acceptance is put to the vote on the basis of Project 10554. [[government]] Please vote. [[17:44:43]] For 246 Decision taken. Ask Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk and the committee to work in such a way that we can get a bill on the way out, who can find support in the session room without looking at who's in the position. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, factions, please: Region Party – 180, "BUT – Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, I have a proposition: let's look at another draft of the Law from this series right now -- this is about making changes to what Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the fight against terrorism, the more that there is a reporter, and then we're going to look at a package of documents that relate to medicines, that is, the medical field. Is there no objection? A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of the fight against terrorism is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister Voron Dmitry Mikolayovich. And the co-reporter is the deputy head of the Justice Committee, Valery Bondik. The committee suggests that the bill be examined in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:46:10]] For 221 Decision taken. Dmitri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending certain legislation to strengthen the fight against terrorism has been developed by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine with a view to establishing an organization's recognition at the legislative level. Because to date neither the Ukrainian Terrorism Act nor any other legislative act has defined such an order. At the same time, article 24 of the law provides that the organization is responsible for the commission of a terrorist act and recognized by a court of terrorism as subject to liquidation and that its property is confiscated. The draft law therefore proposes to amend the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine concerning the fight against terrorism, and the Ukrainian Security Service. The Code of Administrative Judiciality already contains specific articles defining the characteristics of conduct in the matter of requesting the Ukrainian Security Service authorities to impose or remove arrests on and access to terrorist assets of persons on the basis of a UN Security Council resolution. It is then proposed to make appropriate additions to the above-mentioned articles in the Ukrainian Security Service and Terrorism Act. It is proposed that changes be made to the granting of the right to the Ukrainian Security Service, its authorities and co-workers to take action to combat terrorism and to fund terrorist activities to initiate, in accordance with the law, the issue of the recognition of an organization as a terrorist. In addition, the draft law proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Terrorism Act with a new article 11 with a 3-position badge that deals with the issue of the recognition of an organization as a terrorist. The adoption of the bill will allow the issue of the recognition of a terrorist organisation already regulated in most European countries to be resolved at the legislative level. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u124	Thank you, too. Valérie Bondick, please, for the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u125	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! The Honourable Representative of the Ministry of Justice! We discussed this bill on the committee yesterday, we recommended that it be accepted as a basis, but there are some safeguards for the preparation of legislation by the Ministry of Justice. First, we really need to change the Security Service Act, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Terrorism Act, but if we recognize an organization as a terrorist, we have to take the UN resolution into account. And, you know, it's sometimes a political decision, because in some cranes, organizations are considered terrorist, and they're taking part in elections. Some countries do not recognize those who fall under the national registry as terrorist organizations. So if we are allowed to recognize the operational staff of the Ukrainian Security Service in court, at what level? This should be at the level of the Deputy Director of the Security Service or the Deputy Attorney General and the judicial process, which is a public process. I mean, all these charities should be taken into account when preparing the law for the second reading. But our position on the committee, we propose to take it as a basis, because there is relevance -- the fight against terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please record an exchange of information regarding this bill. Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I would like to remind you not so far as to recall when the so-called Communist Terrorists, whom the Security Service, under the previous President, attributed an attempt to blow up the GES of Kiev, will in fact qualify as members of the Communist Party of Ukraine and thus the Communist Party of Ukraine will be banned by the Ukrainian Security Service. I'm such an unprecedented act, which we're currently considering, I can't remember in all 22 years the history of Ukrainian statehood. This means that any person who confesses and confesses that he has committed a crime while in one of the parties, whether he is or is not present, will then be given a membership ticket and will write, in fact, leads to a ban on the organization's activities as a terrorist. Let's look at the experience of countries that are now living in terror, I mean the Middle East countries, how do organizations find themselves in terrorism or not? To this end, this organization must assume responsibility for the commission of a specific terrorist act. This is already the first sign, because in this way we can ban all existing political parties, public organizations, by putting under terrorist activity the membership base of any one of them. Second, let's think about Vitrenco's explosion during the previous election campaign, and so was a member of a particular party that was then in opposition to it, he confessed that he had committed this crime. On the basis of this law, you can actually re-recognizable any organization as terrorist. Where are we going next? Is it not understandable what such acts are carried out? But we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u128	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u129	For the next election, there was one party -- the Party of Regions -- the only one we don't have is a terrorist. Everyone else will be banned.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u130	Thank you. Is the Fedun going to perform? He's refusing. Please, Baby, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u131	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I don't want to agree with my colleague Sergey Sobolev. On the contrary, I think the most important terrorist organization in Ukraine is the Party of Regions. Because it's your party that's terrorizing the Ukrainian people, taking people away.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u132	Let's get to the subject, please. Turn off the microphone, please. I'm asking you to give me the bill, not the bill. Everything, please, can't do that. Well, dear colleagues, please. Nobody insists anymore? We've completed our consideration of the subject. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u133	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition You know, Your Honor, I didn't want to speak. After the previous speech, after the previous bill, which you " Spring Spring" gave you the opportunity to answer where you didn't see that there was a responsibility set, which you didn't need to establish. It's ignorance and MPs, and the government is just indignant. But I want to read to you what you're now offered to vote for. Article 11 with badge 3. "Acknowledgment of an organization as a terrorist. The initiation of the issue of the recognition of an organization as a terrorist is carried out by a person who has received official documentary confirmation of its recognition as a terrorist organization in other countries. The decision to file an administrative action for recognition of an organization shall be taken by the head of the Security Service or his deputy. Recognition is carried out in the order established by law, according to the decision of the court." That's it, that's it. You can get it up here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u134	Thank you. Well, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u135	Because, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you can't. I understand that we can look at some serious projects on PNBs. Well, that's a serious project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u136	Thank you. The draft was not considered in the ORP, but the situation was discussed and it was a matter of action. The government then prepared appropriate draft laws and introduced them for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, we're continuing our 15-minute meeting tonight, first of all. And secondly, what we need to make is an obvious decision. But it's not the kind of paper that's proposed in the government bill. Because there are many questions: Which person can recognize the organization as a terrorist, on the basis of which help is provided. For if the brothers are simply in one country or another that this organization is recognized as terrorist, we may be able to shut down all political structures and social associations because they may be pleasing or displeasing to one country or another. But in order for us to move forward, this bill obviously needs to be accepted and delegated. Well, if you don't support it, I'll do the work. Because then there'll be nothing at all. The first suggestion the committee recommends is to accept as a basis. If you don't, you'll have to work. So the first proposal is to adopt the bill as a basis, and I put it to the vote. If accepted, commissioning committees to seriously redraft this law for second reading. This motion is put to the vote, please vote. On the basis of that, please vote. Please vote. [[17:56:35]] For-27 I didn't understand anything, honestly. I'm voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to recast, and there's no other way out. [[17:57:14]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've resumed the evening session for 15 minutes. Therefore, a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of liability for counterfeiting or the circulation of counterfeit medical devices is now being announced, the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 10561]] [[17:57:55]] For 208 Decision taken. Should we immediately vote for acceptance as a basis or not? Oh, no? Please, Solovyov Alexi, head of the State Medical Services. Is there a denial? The reporter is Victor Schemchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill is designed to protect patients ’ rights to receive effective and safe medicines. The draft Ukrainian Law aims to address the problem of improving the effectiveness and falsification of the fight against illegal drug trafficking. Since the problem is particularly a low level of legal responsibility for falsifying medical devices, it is illegal. Thus, responsibility for the falsification of medical devices or the circulation of counterfeit drugs is laid down in article 44 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and Article 321 of the Criminal Code. The main criterion of difference or the limit of responsibility between administrative and criminal is the size of a counterfeit batch of medical devices. We believe that this design of legal responsibility for the falsification of medical devices creates competition for the above-mentioned rules of the Administrative and Criminal Code. This suggests that this competition of standards carries significant corruption risks that can be used as a means of avoiding criminal liability through the creation of an administrative protocol, for example when part of a forgery is detected. The project thus provides for the abolition of the administrative responsibility for the deliberate manufacture, storage and trafficking of counterfeit drugs and the establishment of only criminal responsibility for these violations. This will allow for the harmonization of legal responsibility for the counterfeiting or circulation of such drugs. Secondly, for the first time, Ukrainian legislation introduces the administrative responsibility of health care workers and their managers for violating the restrictions on professional activities established by legislation. And thirdly, for the first time, criminal responsibility is also being introduced for violating state drug registration and falsifying data into clinical trials. The adoption of this bill will result in a reduction in the number of ineffective and potentially dangerous.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u138	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Victor Schemchuck, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u139	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement last night discussed a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts to increase liability for falsification or the circulation of counterfeit medical devices. The bill proposes that article 321 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code be reprinted in a new edition, that article 44 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences should be reprinted and that the penalties should be increased in article 305 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, and that the Criminal Procedure Code should be supplemented by appropriate provisions on the subjectivity. The main scientific and expert office, after considering the draft legislation, considers it unacceptable and appropriate to return it to the subject of the legislative initiative. The National Deputys of Ukraine, the members of the Committee agreed with the comments of the Scientific and Expert Authority, but also went further because the draft bill for adoption of the convention ratified today by the European Convention on the Counterfeiting of Medical Products and similar crimes that threaten health protection does not fully respond to this concept. In particular, members of the committee stressed that the article of the Criminal Code, which is now proposed to change and negate on counterfeit drugs, was introduced only in November of last year, that is, six months ago. In the past year, there is no crime, no judgment under this article, and making changes to this article is not appropriate today, since there is no practice of applying it. Even at first glance, the proposed changes show that the current system of responsibility for such violations is more effective and more complex, and it is also fully consistent with the resistance to counterfeit drugs. In addition, there will be two articles on the adoption of the bill in the Criminal Code, which can hold the same people accountable for the same crimes. [[Think about it!]] In one article, there will be responsibility from 3 to 5 years of deprivation of liberty, in another article — from 5 to 8 years of deprivation of the will that provides a large component of corruption. That's how.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u140	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u141	Thus, the committee proposes to the Supreme Council a bill to reject and address the President and the Cabinet of Ministers on the corruption of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u142	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u143	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, in the morning we ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Counterfeiting Medical Products and Side Crimes That Threaten Health. And indeed, this bill, the idea of increasing responsibility for falsifying medical devices, could be an example of the implementation of this convention and. But the law is complex, just as part of it, just as part of it, because this bill does not fully reflect the position of this Convention. In particular, part five of the Convention provides for criminal responsibility not only for the manufacture of counterfeit drugs but also for the general medical product. And medical products can also be understood as medical devices or medical devices, as well as other active substances, excipients, materials, and accessories. And there is also criminal responsibility for the supply, trade, storage, import, export of the above-mentioned items. I mean, really, having a good idea, and by the way, we've already passed this year's Law on Raising Responsibility, Criminal Responsibility for Counterfeiting Medical Resources, proposed by People's Deputies Korz and Haydiv, where we've already foreseen an increase in sanctions for such things, I think, in general, this bill should be sent for work in accordance with the convention we ratified and passed as a complex law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u144	Thank you, too. Vitaly Zuravsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u145	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We have evidence in Ukraine of illegal drug circulation and falsification. There is no legal responsibility de facto. Over the years of independence, I emphasize, we have never heard from law enforcement agencies a response to the abuse in this area. Until the closing down of companies that produce non-profits. At least 30 percent of the farm produce is discarded. She suffers both from the disease and from doctors who work with medicines that are inconvenient. Counterfeiting medical products is a great disgrace to Ukraine. This bill strengthens and substantially increases the responsibility for counterfeit drugs. Perpetrators will be punished by imprisonment for up to 15 years and life. I propose to adopt this bill, but it is a viable request to withdraw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u146	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Ramez will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u147	Dear Chairman, colleagues! Once again, I appeal to the entire Ukrainian society. You know how good names are for totally lobbying, corrupt laws. This bill and those who have been preparing are now aware of the corruption component. And I'm going to the Attorney General, to the heads of the Security Service, because it's state security already, which is now preparing an attempt on the lives of many Ukrainian citizens who will be using as original forged drugs. This bill is a completely open gateway to this. Why? Because the name for increasing the fight against counterfeit drugs is exactly compared to the valid one and the one that was submitted in the first draft, the bill, all sanctions were reduced. There's actually a rule that lawyers know, and that's the purpose, that's the sole exception to the word "manufacturer" and that's the blurry form that'll just solve the entire system of production of counterfeit drugs. And the committee said that, including the authors, one of the authors said that he saw what they were offering was quite different. This is how corruption happens in Ukraine, this is how the Party of Regions is going to kill Ukrainian citizens. You won't even be treated, and you don't have normal people here, and those who are introducing such bills and those who are afraid of the Ukrainian people today won't even be treated with paranoia, because even those drugs will be falsified. This law can't be passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u148	National Deputy Ramez of the National Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u149	National MP Ramez, People's Party. I give the word to Zarubin Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u150	Oleg Zarubinski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u151	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! For the sake of justice, there seems to have been no more corruption than when planes were brought to Ukraine, either by Teraflu or by Tamiflu, in the pharmacological business, when there was a pandemic that was not actually there, even an epidemic. But that's a different matter. And as far as the pharmaceutical business is concerned, it is one of the most lobbyist. And in addition to other lobbyists, those who do drugs, I think it's hard to compare in the context of lobbyism with such violent aggressive lobbying. We have had quite a meaningful and fruitful discussion this morning, as we considered, indeed, the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Counterfeiting of Medical Products and of similar crimes that threaten health care. Then, speaking, I said that in this convention, the standards are much more stringent than in those bills that are, including those that are now being passed. Clearly, in order to get rid of or to minimize this poisoning, the destruction of humans by means of counterfeiting, a medical pharmacological forgery, the responsibility must be as high as possible. Maybe as an option, just so that we can really adopt this bill. And since I cannot see if we will add more stringent standards to the convention that we have ratified today to conflict with article 116 of the Rules. We could actually take a step and then, in preparing for the second reading, we would correspond all of these rules to the convention that we ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, we have finished our speeches. Valentina Matthew from the Communist factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill has been proposed for a long time, and I think most will agree. The need to take strict measures to prevent counterfeiting and the circulation of counterfeit drugs is discussed in their constant appeals to us both in places, in direct meetings, and in writing, our voters. Therefore, it is not acceptable that the bill proposes a sharp increase in the penalties for crimes, provided for by the new Criminal Code, and until the end of the sentence of 8 years and the end of the sentence. I guess that's what most of them are for. Someone's already crying that these sanctions, you see, are excessive. In this regard, it is not possible, to put it mildly, to be sure, that the position of the non-pharmacological mafia is not surprising.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u154	Complete your thinking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u155	It's clear, it's only about a billion dollars. And here's the position and the profile committee and the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Therefore, the question logically arises: Do you, fellow workers, not harm the lives of millions of our fellow citizens? The Communist faction will clearly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our consideration of this matter. The committee is proposing, I think, to reject the bill. It's a major science-expert facility. From the faction spoke, well, wait, Zuravsky spoke. Well, please, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u157	The distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, is having a very important discussion. And I am very insulted when they object to the Party of the Regions that, for the first time in 21 years of independent Ukraine, we have drafted a bill by the People's MP, Konovaluk, which is a forged drug. And for the first time, we got this job right. And what's happening in our country today is 13,000 drug names. That's twice what France is! That's one and a half times that in Germany. This suggests that about 4 or 5,000 drugs are phantoms that do not work, which are not produced at all by manufacturers who do not cure but only lose. For the cure to work, it must be natural. So if we're talking today, since 1997, we can't defeat tuberculosis why? What's missing in the country?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u158	Finish up, please. Well, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u159	One minute, okay. Because all the drugs were bad. And this bill needs to be supported on first reading, done. And we need this criminal responsibility to take place. And every Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m1.u160	Thank you. Aunt Dmitry, we won't be able to vote anymore. Time is running out. Dear National Deputies! The discussion is over, the subject is endless. I therefore put to the vote a proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of liability for counterfeiting or the circulation of counterfeit medical devices. [[Registration number 10561]] Please vote. [[18:15:11]] For 265 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 191, "BUT - "Patkashtina" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 9. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council will continue its work in plenary from 10 a.m. From 10 to 11 o'clock is an hour of questions to the government. They will answer questions raised by Ukrainian national deputies, Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
