ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u1	Yes, Your Honor, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:52]] The 408 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that we will vote in the evening. The draft decree on the 130th anniversary of the birth of Metropolitan Ilario. [[John Ivanovich Fire]] [[Registration number 10003]] We have discussed this problem for a long time and have come to the point of making the right decision. I'm voting on a motion to adopt a 130-year-old decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u2	Well, then. We'll take a look at it. What's the problem? I didn't understand. On the adoption of the Order on the 130th anniversary of the birth of Metropolitan Ilario. [[John Ivanovich Fire]] [[Registration number 10003]] Please vote. [[16:02:15]] For-164 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The region's parties are 16, "BUT" is called "Fatherhood" is 73, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 35, the Communists are 0, the People's Party is 20, "Reforms for the Future" is 19, the non-factional is 1. Dear colleagues, one minute. So let's say we've already agreed on both rectorship and cultural, scientific and mobile activities. We've voted other decisions, I'd say so, they're, those people, very valuable, but compared to Firefly, they look pale. One minute, right now, people just weren't around, so what are you?Oh, my God! Dear colleagues, I ask you, come on, think back to this matter a little later. Come on. And then we'll get through that, too. Let's get a little bit of people there. Well, I'll do it again. Dear colleagues, you and I have decided to mark the 75th anniversary of the birth of Viacheslav Crnovola. And there's a proposal from the committee that after the words "financial and technical security," add the following paragraph: "Ensure financing of renovation and restoration works by the Museum of the Sixtieth Century: the city of Kiev, the street of Honchara, 33rd. I beg your attention, fellow officers. Yuri Anatolyevich, please, Yuri Anatolyevich! Yuri Anatolyevich, don't bother. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of the decree we have adopted to mark the 75th anniversary of the birth of Viacheslav Crnovola: add the following paragraph: "Ensure the financing of the renovation and restoration work of the 60th-century Museum: the city of Kyiv, the street of Honchar, 33rd. Well, it says "33th." "On the street of Potter," let's write, and they'll know where. "On the street of the Potter." Please vote. [[16:05:01]] For 322 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in order to preserve our further working potential, I ask you, dear colleagues, we have agreed with you, we have consulted in factions, we have looked at the details, so to speak, of life, creative, scientific, moral, organizational Metropolitan Ilaryon. This morning we put it into the agenda and agreed with you that we would accept this decision at the evening meeting. And there's no such thing as a misunderstanding. So I ask you, let's now go back to this issue and vote on this ruling, on Fire. Well, please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, you know, they'll be laughing with us soon. People are already saying that Ukraine will soon have to make its calendar of 700 days a year. Because we're starting 1234, 1137 years old, someone was born or died, or something like that, a vodka with someone drinking or fighting, or I don't know, yes. Well, it's funny. I think we should take one order to mark only round dates: 100, 50, 25, no 20, no 30. I understand three more times of the Cossack hero, yes. But when we get out of the log, there's no telling who's in the room, no one knows anything, and they're trying to raise you. People laugh at us, say, "What do you do there?" Is that why we're voting against it? Because there are differences, some say that, so to speak, he was incomprehensible during the war. I don't understand who he met with the bread, the salt, why he organized the opposition to the Moscow Patriarchate and so on. We're not in yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, please! Well, everybody's a specialist now. I'm talking to Mikhail Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, we're talking about Fireworks, we're not talking about the period of World War II and the Great Homeland War. We confused ourselves with the Blind, which we have already voted on and we have adopted, on the contrary, that determination. That's not the point, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm asking you, since you and I have made a deal, we have made a decision. What? To whom should I give my word? Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, we have indeed opened up a discussion. I'd hate for us to fail this decision. I suggest that there be no emotion in the room, that we postpone and consider it tomorrow. I think our colleagues in my faction have great respect for all our spiritual parents, let us say. But for the sake of emotion, let us not fail this determination, but move it to tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u6	Let's move it. But when the draft decrees were voted on Wednesday, they did not vote, and they said that we would find out. They found out and voted today. What else can I find out, please? Okay, Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u7	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". You know, I'm sometimes ashamed to listen to Ukrainian national deputies who claim their illiteracy from the Supreme Council's rostrum throughout Ukraine. Well, open the encyclopedia, read about the Fireworks, and you'll realize that until World War II and the Great Homeland War, he has no bearing whatsoever on his life course ending earlier. Please see what he has done. He wasn't in politics. You can't be so harsh. Finally, please tell me, have you marked it 125 years? There was no decision. Then maybe you should have taken care of yourself. And if that's what they've done today, we've got to back it up. Do not be offended by your illiteracy by the memory of the Ukrainian people, the people you represent in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, now no agitation will help. So I suggest we postpone until Friday, Friday, and I think we can agree on a position and make a decision. Now, I think the pros and cons are not going to add anything. Dear colleagues, we need to decide on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Specialities of Conduct in Administrative Offences during the 2012 final part of the European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[on the handling of matters in the sports area]] We've put it in order of the day. The committee considered, made a decision. You know what this has to do with us, we need to make a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:11:05]] For 215 Decision taken. The reporter is Vladimir Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u9	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For the purpose of adopting the draft Ukrainian Law to ensure the implementation of procedural legislation on the automated distribution of cases and materials that are brought before the court, as well as the realization of the rights of foreigners and stateless persons, they use the language or language that they use to interpret the case. The project proposed to remove from the Ukraine Act "On the Specialities of Administrative Offences in the Final Part of the 2012 European Football Championship" the following: provisions on the possibility of handling administrative offences during the 2012 European Finals Championship from football in Ukraine directly in the area of a sports building in specially equipped premises. The law enforcement committee reviewed the bill and supported it. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not see the need to adopt this law, that is, the legal nature of the observations. At the same time, after considering Bill 10177, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee disagreed with the comments made by the experts of the Chief Executive, and the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept it in the first reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u10	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, can we make this decision? Even though we have a common position here? Yuri Carmazin insists. Who else insists on the performance? I can't see. There's only one Carmazine. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u11	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I am very glad that Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik has seen and made a good offer. Let me remind you that you and I passed a bill on July 5, 2011, which predicted that cases of administrative violations committed in the area of a sports building during a mass sporting or other cultural event were being dealt with in the area of a sports building in specially equipped facilities for one period of time. I mean, we bring the judge in and we tap the case. on the visa. It's a marasm. And then we talked and convinced ourselves that we couldn’t accept it. Now we've come to see that they're laughing at the novels we've made in Europe. Because of this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the proposal is to be accepted in the first reading and in the second in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u12	Yes, honourable colleagues, part two of article 3 is proposed to exclude. What are we talking about? The point is that the cases are being directly dealt with by a single judge in the area of a sports building, specially equipped for the participation of the persons involved. This rule is excluded and is consistent with common standards. So we have every reason to put a proposal for acceptance on the ground and in general. Well, that's how we need it now. What if we rule out one article, Yuri Bogdanovich?Oh, my God! We rule that out -- that's all. I am voting on the approval of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the Specialities of Conduct in Administrative Offences in the Final Part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[on the handling of matters in the sports area]] [[Registration number 10177]] Please vote. [[16:16:25]] For 290 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 188, "BUT – "Fathership" – 30, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 17, communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, "Afterfaction" – 10. Dear colleagues, let's consult here. The faction of the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Party of the Party of the Regions, the Block of Timoshenko, the Father of the Region, our Ukraine, the People's Party, the Communist Party, have called on the Bureau to review the Law on Amendments to the Tax Code on the Special Taxation Regime of the Subjects of the Software Production Industry. Well, since this is actually the whole Supreme Council, is there a need to vote or not? Well, let's vote for purity. One minute! Who's to do the will of the leaders of the five factions -- and now look at the draft law, registration number 9744. Please vote. Where is this law? [[16:17:50]] For 317 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law amending the Code of Taxation for Special Treatment of Subjects of the Software Industry. The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:18:18]] For 228 Decision taken. Eugene Kzarykov, please report. Who will speak from the committee? Hometic? There's Vitaly the Hometic, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u13	Honourable People's Deputies, the bill proposes to introduce tax incentives to support the domestic information technology and software industry. In order to achieve these objectives, the draft law provides for a special tax regime that may, inter alia, affect the development of the industry through such rules, a special tax regime, in accordance with the provisions of the bill, provides for a 16 per cent profit tax on the entities. And the second, a key one, is the introduction of a five per cent concession rate for taxation of the income of physicists, special regime personnel. Well, in a common language, that means it's going to take wages out of the shadow, because in the IT industry, up to 60-70 percent of the spending, it's like people say, that's the factor of our brains that make this product. The draft law also provides for exemption from taxation, value added tax in accordance with established economic activities for the supply of goods, works, services to the software industry. The head of the committee may say in more detail in his decision specific aspects, and I would like to remind you that there are two thousand companies in the industry, 60,000 staff, that are only preliminary data that are involved in this area, and that some 200,000 people are mediated. Thus, in the medium and long term, this will allow for a high growth rate for industry. Yesterday, Mr. Seminozhenko on the Committee showed us that during the past year, despite the decline in another sector, the industry increased 50 per cent. This can also become one of their main budgetary factors, since in principle, by withdrawing wages from the shadows, we also increase the social dimension. This could also ensure stable foreign exchange revenues to Ukraine from exports of products and would also secure Ukraine as a leading country in the industry. Experience of neighbouring Russia, Belarus, as well as India and the United States.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u14	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u15	With such incentives, the industry adds up to 70 per cent per annum. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u16	Thank you. Vitaly Hometic, head of the committee. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u17	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the legislative initiative is to create legislative mechanisms that allow for the implementation of the entire intellectual and high-tech potential of Ukrainian software companies. This will provide a new impetus to the growth of the sector, as well as an increase in budget revenues and the creation of new jobs. The bill proposes the introduction of tax instruments to support the domestic information technology industry, which the author was told about. It's a VAT, it's a 5 percent citizen's income tax, and it's actually reduced to 16 percent, that's the threshold that we go by all kinds of taxes. But it is proposed immediately next year that it be 16 percent. In general, the committee supported the initiative, but we noticed that after the first reading, we would need to create a working group in order to make as wide a presentation as possible of the various proposals to carefully put the project back into the second reading. What questions were answered at the meeting? These are the questions that need improvement. This is a concept of a special taxation regime, a clear procedure for complaints of tax decisions, a clarification of the criteria under which an enterprise can apply tax duties, a clear list of those workers who are programmers and who will be subject to the benefit of a person's income tax according to the classification of professions. The committee's working group is also working on the VAT mechanism for the IT industry and the regulations for the administration of the benefits. In general, we supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u18	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u19	The project was supported and recommended that Parliament accept the project as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please sign in. Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, I point out that we can actually create a special regime for businesses or business entities. And that makes sense, so we're going to support them. However, according to the Constitution, we cannot divide the employed, or Ukrainians, into varieties. Some work in such firms and pay 5 percent, others work in other firms, and they pay 15 percent or 17 percent, respectively, if it is a high wage. This approach is completely wrong. If we understand that we have too high wages for wages, let's all cut down, this problem is for everyone, not just the companies you've allocated. And in engineering companies, in any other companies that do intellectual work, where they have a high level of wages in their scope of implementation. It's the same problem for everyone. This is how we can differentiate. So we can support it on the basis, but to the second reading we have to bring this into line with the Constitution with the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u22	Thank you. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u23	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Now, in order to remove the nuclei, I want to say that the group will support this bill, we consider it essential, as a priority. We are really dividing the rhetoric and the very basic groundwork that is set out in the explanatory note of this bill and in the very body of the bill. There is no doubt that we are going to make every effort to form an actual new class, an official, illegal new class of IT experts, programmers who to this day have found themselves or are abroad when they were going to Germany, to Europe, to the United States or to Australia or working under shadow schemes. You know, when I graduated from Odessa University of Technology, it was my first education, and I had a friend who studied at FABT. I asked him, "Where are you going to work?" Today he works in Germany and his friends work in Germany, and those who stay here work for some company, under some mysterious contracts, and there's nothing coming into the government budget. So let's put an end to this. The only thing that arises is, let's say, not even concern, but just please note that the work or processing of the new IT products that are actually listed here in this bill should be closely linked to the protection of copyright for these products, which, unfortunately, in Ukraine today are not supported by anyone, at all. Legal software in Ukraine has not been seen, sorry, it is, but there is virtually no control over its use. So if these software products are only going abroad, that's one thing. We would like them to work in Ukraine, and we would like them to eat Ukrainian products. We will support this bill with such observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u24	Dear National Deputies! Please, Andrew Chevchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u25	Colleagues! I just wanted to briefly record our faction's position. We're going to support this bill, and we think it's not just jobs, it's all about the special segment of people with education, it's people of the future, it's in many ways the gold fund of our country, and it's a very big contribution to us becoming a modern country. I would like to remind you that, according to recent studies, 1 out of 3 Ukrainians has been using the Internet regularly. We know that there's a whole new generation that lives in a completely different technical dimension, and it's now in the present condition that, apart from everything else, it's a space of freedom. Our faction will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u26	Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukraine Tax Code on Special Taxation Regimes for the Software Industry. [[Registration number 9744]] Please vote. [[16:28:21]] For 336 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Public Organizations has been announced. [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Vasil Vasilovic Demčišen. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the draft of the Ukrainian Law on Public Organizations, as a result of the first reading, was accepted as a basis on May 17, 2011, as the Head of the Supreme Council has pointed out to us today, and with the commission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government to work on it. Considering that the bill is extremely relevant and is designed to significantly simplify the regulation of community activities, and as a result, to contribute to the development of civil society in Ukraine, the committee for its development created a working group in July of last year. Representatives of various public authorities and the public were involved in the work. During her activities, the working group held some 30 meetings, seeking to draft a clear, clear and effective legal mechanism and to prepare a quality normative document. I would like to thank you for such fruitful cooperation with my fellow Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of state bodies, the public, our Juru-government, which has worked with us as well. During the drafting of the bill, the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to Member States regarding the legal status of NGOs in Europe were taken into account. In the course of the work, the concept and key positions of the bill adopted in the first reading were preserved. At the same time, in connection with the discussion on the constitutionality of the right of private individuals to be members of public organizations, the bill defines a broader term of “civil association, ” which includes public organizations, the unification of individuals and public associations, the unification of legal persons of private law with the possibility of membership of natural persons. So we think it's appropriate to replace the title of the law and put it in the text: "for social associations." The bill also suggests that registration is free of charge, restricting the grounds for refusal to register and shorten the registration deadline to 7 days. Predicting the right of public associations to engage in business activities directly if they meet the objective of social union and contribute to its achievement. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to, maybe I'll have a little bit longer, I want to stop conceptually because it's been a really long time. Thank you. Identify the right of public associations to participate in the work of advisory, advisory, and other auxiliary bodies formed by public authorities and local authorities, as well as a wide range of novelties that have been positively appreciated by representatives of the public. It is proposed that the adopted law take effect on the day following its publication and enter into force on January 1, 2013. At the same time, in view of the large number of amendments to other legislative acts, the need for an integrated and complete settlement of the issue, the non-admission of conflicts and conflicts in legislation, and the requirements of Article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules, it is proposed that the relevant provisions of the law contained in the Final and Transitional Regulations should be complied with in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules and in the form of a separate bill amending certain legislative acts, taking into account the need for its adoption over time, prior to the introduction of the law in force. A comparative table for a bill containing 207 amendments and proposals from 31 national deputies has been prepared by the Committee for Second Reading. As a result of the review of amendments and proposals, the Committee meetings held on March 14 and 21, 60 of them were considered, 48 were taken into account in part, 7 were taken into account in editorial terms, and 16 were taken into account in fact, 70 were rejected. With regard to the two interconnected amendments, 168-173, it will be, I think, when considering the financial support of public associations, at the expense of the budget. The committee did not reach agreement and brought the Supreme Council to its consideration. At its March 21st meeting, the committee also considered previous comments by the Chief Legal Authority on the bill submitted to the committee on March 21. Most of them are found to be right and well - accounted. Prepared by the committee for the second reading of the Bill of Registration No. 7262-1, prepared with the comments of the General Legal Department. In the context of the bill’s consideration, the committee acknowledged that it was quite progressive, making it much easier to regulate community activities. And by a majority of votes, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended, in accordance with article 124, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the draft Law on Public Associations, the second reading, the second reading, and the whole. In adopting the bill as a whole and preparing it to be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, we ask that the technical and legal drafting of the bill be carried out in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Amendment 1, which refers to the name of the law. It's proposed that the bill should be called "For Public Associations," it was "For Public Organizations." We need to vote, honorary colleagues, the name of the law. May I have your attention, please? Vote for the name of the law. The law's name was "For Public Organizations", and the committee proposes "For Public Associations," because the organization is one, and the union is several structures united. I'm voting on the title of the Act: "On Public Associations." Please vote. [[16:35:58]] For 269 Decision taken. 3 fixes, Grigorovich. No, it's not. Vladimir Karpuk, no. Gordyenko, 5th Amendment. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a very terrible bill for our society. And my position is clear and clear. Article 36 of the Constitution introduced the concept of "unification" of citizens themselves. And this constitutionally meaningful structure would have to be preserved in law and not manipulated by concepts without attracting foreigners and especially legal persons here. So my proposal was to divide the bill into two, the first to comply with the Constitution, to apply exclusively to our citizens in Ukraine, and the second to allow other entities to join non - entrepreneurial organizations to lobby their interests. Unfortunately, it was not supported; it had been discussed on the committee for a long time. So I ask you to put it to a vote and I ask you to support me, because the consequences will be terrible.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u30	Amendment 5 shall be put to the vote. [[16:37:37]] For-30 Correction not supported. Yes, the amendment of Kniazewicz 13. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. Gordyenko, 20th Amendment. Are you insisting? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! My wording is fully in line with the Constitution, and therefore voting for this paragraph is for all those who sit here by the balloting controls is a lacquer paper. Are we on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine, or are we artificially attracted to citizens’ associations, the recommendations of the Council of Europe Council of Ministers Committee of Ministers on NGOs? In the definition of a committee from a constitutional association: "protecting their rights," these words were removed and added "social." So what we're talking about is that any social organization today is protecting the interests of the whole society, and no more, and no less. So the organizations of marginal perverses are going to represent the interests of society as a whole, you can't let that happen. Look what it's going to be like.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u32	I'll bet you 20 votes. [[16:39:24]] For-28 Correction not supported. Carmazine, 21st Amendment. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u33	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In my amendment, I propose in article 1 the first part of the definition of a public organization, but not as the committee did. I'm sorry, the committee has done a huge job, but it's a very notable definition of what a "civil organization" is. For this reason, I believe that the formulation that "a public organization is a union of citizens to satisfy and protect their legitimate social, economic, creative, age, national and cultural, sports and other common interests" is entirely consistent with the content of the Constitution and is one that is much broader than the committee has considered so far. That's why I think we should take it that way. By the way, I supported the amendment of the national MP, Gordonka, who also made amendments in accordance with the Constitution. I think it's wrong that we reject it the way it's written.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u34	It's the 21st amendment. [[16:41:01]] For-25 Correction not supported. The correction of Miroshnichenko. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 28th, Pudov. Ah, the 27th part. Well, please, Gordon's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are commercializing the activities of public organizations. My amendment is that the public organization cannot define the purpose of its profit-generating activities. My proposal is against the commercialization of the very area of intangible production represented by the activities of these organizations. We've already commercialized everything and we even commercialize religion, it's unacceptable. If someone wants to do business, let them do it because of their businesses, as they do now, and not invent new schemes for "buy and sell." That's terrible! We're going to suffer from it again, and I'm going to stress it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u36	Vote for the amendment of Gordjenka. The committee considered it in part. The author suggests that it be taken fully into account. [[16:42:49]] For-29 Correction not supported. Correction to Gordon, 30th. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u37	I insist on this amendment. This proposal is directed against the ability of public associations to engage in direct business. If you want to do so, you should not hide behind the beautiful phrases and names of social interest, but you should register as an entrepreneurial society and make money in this way. Here you can have different schematics: MMM and so on. For example, one poorer private enterprise with a single statutory capital bracelet can make up dozens and hundreds of public associations with the world’s largest corporations, and associations will be legal persons and have the full right to participate in property transactions in Ukraine. So this is a Trojan horse that's hidden in this bill. You can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, Sergey Volodymyrovich, I, well, this is your third or fourth amendment. We have discussed these issues and voted, and we have really discussed them on the committee. They're changing this bill conceptually. That's why we didn't support them, it's the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of Europe. If we are to move there, we must listen to those who have already built civil society, so we have not supported the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u40	30 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[16:45:10]] For-30 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 35, Miroshnichenko and the group. Are they insisting? No, it's not. Correction 41, Suskevich. I can't see. Correction of Kniazewicz, 50th. No, it's not. Amendment to Kniazewicz, 52nd. No, it's not. Fixing Seminog, 78th. No, it's not. Pudov, 79th. No, it's not. Miroshenko, 81st. No, it's not. Carpook, 82nd. No, it's not. Gordijenko, 83rd, on page 25. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u41	Dear comrades, I would like to insist, after all, that paragraph two of the third part of article eight be deleted. See, this again applies to legal persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u42	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 83. [[16:46:49]] For-30 The amendment is not accepted. Five, 84. No, it's not. Grigorovich, 87. No, it's not. Carmazine, 90. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u43	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u44	What's that? 74th? Just a minute. Yes, I'm sorry, it's 74, Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u45	I'm in control!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u46	Please, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u47	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I control the repairs. Thank you. I propose in article 8 in part 1, paragraph 1, that we put in the following wording: "The citizens of Ukraine who have reached the age of 14," by deleting the words "aliens and non-citizens." This change will not allow the unlimited participation of foreigners and stateless persons in public organisations, since the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide a direct constitutional and legal basis for the granting of aliens and stateless persons an appropriate right in the same scope as that enjoyed by Ukrainian citizens. Well, there's got to be something different about Ukrainian citizens for their rights. That's what the Constitution does. That's why I'm proposing such an amendment. I don't understand why the committee turned her down. I'm still asking you to support and express the committee's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u48	I'm betting on a vote of 74. [[16:48:37]] For-42 Correction not accepted. Gordien Sergey, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u49	In this context, you left so quickly that we did not vote on my amendments 76 and 78.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u50	Come on. It says "in part." Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u51	Well, it's about what Karmazin's colleague said. The faction of the Company of Ukraine strongly opposes the participation of foreigners, even those in Ukraine on legal grounds. We don't want organized groups of foreigners to take part in the administration of our state and our citizens, take care of the authorities, hold rallies, and perform demonstrations. We have seen what is happening today in African countries. So I personally made this amendment and I don't want the authors' hands of the project to create conditions for the participation of hundreds and hundreds of foreigners here in the territory of Ukraine in the anti-government activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u52	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u53	Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, and somewhere in the context of Jury Anatoliyovich, just before that, once again, I want to repeat, if we want to call ourselves a civilized state, create conditions for the development of civil society, we have to take experience and create. We can't have second-rate or other citizens. The committee did not support this amendment, taking into account the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u54	Amendment 76 shall be voted on. The committee considered it in part, and the author requires that it be taken fully into account. [[16:50:55]] For-29 The amendment is not accepted. Please, it's Sergei Gordienka's microphone. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u55	78th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u56	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u57	It's rejected. Once again, I emphasize that there is a faction against the intentional unification of questionable recommendations by ministers of European countries themselves, the rights of people’s interests and the artificial forms that we make, namely, legal persons who act only as a means of masking purely private interests. The worst thing about this situation is that it's a license for direct commercial activity, public interest and community. That is why this law is contrary. So we understand why it is so attractive to do business, including with foreigners. If this law is adopted, it will be possible to launder huge amounts of money precisely through commercial projects based on the entrepreneurial activities of public organizations. This cannot be allowed, even on the recommendation of the European Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u58	Sergei Volodymyrovich, on the other hand, is the supposed entrepreneurial activity for statutory activity. And for that, we have organs and we have the Budget Code, and there's the Tax Code, and there's fiscal authorities, and so on and so on. We're giving people the opportunity to make money to secure their statutory activities, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u59	Puts to the vote 78 amendments. [[16:53:02]] For-29 The amendment is not accepted. Next, let's move on. Amendment 90 Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u60	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Amendment 90 refers to the old 9th article, now it is 8. The point is to complete the second part after the first sentence with a new sentence of the next sentence. But what I'm going to do first is I'm going to do what I'm going to do, it's not my text yet, it's the text of the law. "A person under the age of 14 may become a member of a public organization in cases provided for by the documents of the relevant public organization, on the basis of the written consent of his legal representative." [[Under 14 years of age, I would like to stress.]] I would like to add: "The realization of the right to freedom of union should be limited to taking into account their age and state of health" because it is 14 years old. So I say that this right is limited to age and health. Besides everything else, you know that he's a civilian.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u61	Yuri Anatolyevich, this is a restriction on human constitutional rights. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u62	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 90. [[16:54:54]] For two. No correction supported. Amendment 99. Miroshenko. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Rybeka. 101st. I can't see. Amendment 110. Is Miroshenko insisting? No, it's not. 112th. No, it's not. I can't see. Rybeka. 114th. No, it's not. It's a hunchback. 116th. No, it's not. Carmazine. 118th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u63	Yuri Carmazin. The point of my amendment is very simple. I propose in the text of article 12 that the words "territorial administrations of justice" should be replaced by the words "Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and its territorial authorities." I think that makes it possible for both the Ministry of Justice and its local authorities. If we write "territorial administrations of justice" it could be understood a little bit differently, it could be district, it could be interdisciplinary and so on. Because of this, I suggested this amendment, it's more technical. But it has to be taken into account, in my opinion. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u64	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 118. [[16:56:39]] For -6 Correction not supported. 119th. 120th. Don't you insist? 121st. No, it's not. 124th. It's a hunchback. No, it's not. 130 revisions. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 131st? No, it's not. 132nd. 133rd Horbatuk. Don't insist. 136th, the coat doesn't insist. 137th. Don't insist. Yuri Carmazin, 142. Page 78. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u65	Yuri Carmazin. So this amendment refers to article 7 of Part Two, which I propose to put in such an editorial and to give a new edition of it. "The news is posted on the official website of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and should be accessible to the public," replacing the words "for the automatic processing of information" with the words "for the public." I think it's a perfectly correct correction. I don't understand why it's not so fixed. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u66	The vote shall be amended by 142. [[16:58:32]] For -8 Correction not supported. 147th, don't they insist? The 151st. Don't insist. Suskevich, 164th. Don't insist. Suskevich, 165th. Don't insist. 166th. Partially counted. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on this amendment? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u67	Vladimir Mikhailovich, 168 there. Please note, 168, except for part one, article 23. And it's overrun by 173 Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, which is this part. I'd like to stop at it, we're two of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u69	I think it's Yuri Bogdanovich, probably 173. Yuri Bogdanovich, 173rd?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u70	Yuri Bogdanovich, 168 revisions resonate with 173. Please, this is your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u71	Thank you very much, we are looking at such a complex bill quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u72	I'm sorry to interrupt your dialogue, obviously.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and distinguished colleagues. My 173th amendment relates to the novel that is contained in this bill. So far, public organizations have had the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities only through the creation of appropriate business companies, businesses. Here we give individual cases the right to engage in this activity directly. Obviously, such public organizations will not have a nonprofit status because they are engaged in entrepreneurial activities. However, the question arises whether such profitable organizations have the right to receive funds from the state budget as aid or not? My proposal is that state aid from the budget be provided only to non-entrepreneurs' social organizations. And I'd like to support that because.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u74	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u75	Because the mixing of the budget and the funds used for the business is a serious abuse. I suspect that after that, some limited - liability societies will register as public organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u76	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u77	The committee on this issue has not identified itself, but I want to clarify my position, my proposal, and my amendment. So there is, somewhere, a proper position and Yuri Bogdanovich. But, at the same time, respected colleagues, for example. If there is a society of blind people, or other people who earn money, this community organization is small to provide for its statutory activities, for example, to make candles. And it's a small fraction of the money they're going to make, and we're going to take them out because they're going to do this entrepreneurial work, and we're going to take them out of the budget. I don't think it's right. As a result, it would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u78	Please, Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u79	Klukkowski. Well, you know, honestly, it's wrong to talk about these speculations around little candles. Usually, when budget support is provided, there is enough money. And if there's budget support, let's face it, you don't have to sell pennies. It's about something else. So far, even for those candles, a calculation unit has been created. The only foundation was the social organization. And she was completely getting for her statutory purposes the profits of this small business. I don't understand why today I'm mixing budget and income from entrepreneurship. The elemental distinction is also part of the fight against corruption, if that's what it is. Let's make this happen, nobody's gonna get hurt. Each organization that wants to receive funds from the State will create an enterprise that will engage in entrepreneurial activities. And these costs will no longer be mixed up and there will be no problems, and that is not prohibited.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, I'd like to hear Yuri Klukkowski's position. If we are talking about social unifications, they should be social unifications. If we want them to be both commercial and commercial structures, it will be no longer a social union. However, public associations use State support in one form or another. So how can we do better than that? Here 168 amendments are made by the national deputies Demchisen and Sinchenka. Where it is determined that they can carry out business activities according to the law. It is considered with the exception of the part of the first article 23 that is being considered. So I'm going to put the vote to a full vote. If not, then we'll remove that position. Please, vote on Amendment 168. I'd like to make up my mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:04:37]] For 246 No, dear fellows, we just voted wrong with you. We have now voted to amend 168 national deputies Demchisen and Sinchenk. Amendment of Yuri Bogdanovich 174th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u81	Third.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, we voted 168 with you because it's on the line. I asked you to take that position into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u83	We voted ours, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u84	I'd like to vote then, dear colleagues. So let me put it right, let's vote for Yuri Klukkowski's amendment, let's support Yuri Klukkowski's amendment. If we support her, then we'll get everything right. Right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'd like to hear it now. I'm calling the reporter. If we now support Yuri Klukkowski's amendment, then we'll bring it all together. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u85	Then it'll be 168th without my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u86	Yes, without your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u87	If we support Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u88	Yeah. So I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, what was Yuri Klukkowski's amendment? That a public organization can't be an entrepreneurial structure. Right? Well, please, Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u89	Once again, I want to emphasize the substance of my amendment. The fact that the public organization can engage directly in entrepreneurial activities has already been voted out when the amendments to Gordonck have been rejected. Now it's about whether a public organization that does business directly can also get budget support. I'm proposing that these things be set apart. And if she's directly involved in entrepreneurial activities, she can't have budget support. And if she's created an enterprise, let her get the support from the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, once again. I'm betting on the vote on the amendment of Yuri Klukkowski. It goes on to say that if a public union with the status of a legal person does not engage in business activity directly, it is entitled to receive State support if it is engaged, it is not. So I'm asking you to vote 173 of the amendment now, and I'm putting it to the vote. Please vote. [[17:07:33]] For-94 Correction not accepted. Then there remains the position in the section proposed by the people’s deputies Demcishen and Sinchenko. Let's move on. Amendment to the 187th Silence. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. Amendment 190 of Carmazine. Are you insisting on her, Yuri Anatolyovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u91	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, so far we've had a report that the public for breaking the law is responsible for the law. What a responsibility we don't say. By the way, I'm right here making an amendment that has to be a responsibility. Part one, please, in the following wording: "Contravention of the law to public organizations may be subject to the following: warnings, fines, temporary bans, suspension of certain activities, temporary bans on activities and compulsory dismissal or liquidation." [[stop]] Since the current legislation on the integration of citizens offers a fairly broad list of charges for breaches by public organizations of legislation that differ in the nature of the consequences for public organizations, it allows the law enforcement body to apply a type of restriction depending on the degree of severity of the infringement. And the project actually excludes that possibility. So this project is worse than the one that works.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u92	The vote shall be amended by 190. [[17:09:58]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. Suskevich. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we've missed 169 revisions. I ask you to pay attention to her. Public organizations have the right to represent and defend the rights and legitimate interests of persons in order to achieve the goals and tasks set out in the instruments. It didn't go into the law, "representing and protecting the rights, legitimate interests of persons," veterans, disabled people, pensioners, socially vulnerable people, organizations of war veterans, associations of disabled people. I ask you to support this position of mine, which has always been in the laws of Ukraine, to "present, defend the rights and legitimate interests of persons" and to continue: "to monitor the rights, freedoms of pensioners, veterans, disabled persons" those people who are today. This is a normal European norm. Please support all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u94	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u95	Well, the committee has been looking at it, but it's already, let's say, conceptually some part of our society. We are generally adopting this bill for our civil society, so we need to specify some categories of the population. Well, the committee didn't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u96	I put to the vote amendment 169 Valery Suškević. Please vote. [[17:11:43]] For-78 Not supported. Amendment to the 195th Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u97	Yuri Carmazin. It's too bad you didn't support it right now. I don't know what social organizations are for if they can't protect the interests of their members. We review legislation and make the law worse. It's no use to you. We didn't vote for Karmazin's amendments, God be with him. So the Suskevitch amendment, what was it that interfered with you and the law that was in place? Amendment 195 refers to what I propose in article 18 of the Final and Transitional Provisions to delete paragraph 2, which is recognized to have ceased to be valid since the date of entry into force of this Act, the Law on the Unification of Citizens of Ukraine. I believe that the loss of validity of the Unification of Citizens Act, without making any necessary changes to the Political Parties Act, will lead to gaps in the legal regulation of citizens' right to freedom of union in political parties. In addition, a considerable number of issues that are currently regulated by the law will remain unresolved: the rights of public organizations, economic activities, public oversight and control of the activities of public organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u98	It's a 195th amendment to the vote. [[17:13:19]] For-12. Correction not supported. All the other amendments are already us. 203th, right? 203rd, please, Andrew Shevchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u99	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We've got a vote ahead of us. I just wish. We've just heard so many terrible things about this law, I'd like to say that we are now calmed down and prepared for a completely historic vote, because it brings civil society in Ukraine to a new level. [[Hopefully, it'll come out.]] That's the law. The bill is the product of almost a year's work of a huge circle of experts and experts. The Committee, the Presidential Administration, Minsk, representatives of public organizations, authorities and opposition, experts from the Council of Europe. Its task is very simple: it has to forgive conditions, simplify life for public organizations, because it takes three days to register the business, and it takes 30 days to register the public organization. What is a strong State in the 21st century, in the third millennium? It's a strong civil society, it's a strong, free people who can take the initiative and take the responsibility. This bill will be voted by our faction. We call on other factions to support it. And I don't insist on correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been through some adjustments. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, call on the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u101	I thank you for such constructive work in the hall. I've already spoken to the committee. But once again, I want to thank all the participants for their hard, hard work. They're representatives of different political forces, they're really our common product. I think our society will get such a progressive, necessary document. Thank you. I call for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and generally as a law. There are some observations made by the General Legal Authority. Some of them were counted by the committee. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the bill of the Law on Public Organizations. [[Registration number 7262-1]] Please vote. Please vote. [[17:16:12]] For 334 The law is passed. Please, Valerius Ananiyovich Beviz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u103	Honorable national MPs, Solomon once said that there should be a measure of everything. This morning, you and I consecrated the adoption of the Protection Act and compared it to the structures that bake pies, military formations, half a million armies. Second, we have just voted on the Law on Public Associations and Organizations. I want to tell you something like that that thoughtless deregulation of social life will lead to total corruption and the destruction of the state. We will return to this law again and again, you will remember these words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's laws on pre-election agitation and voter reporting in the media is under consideration. The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:17:41]] For-198 Decision taken. The reporter is Andrew Shevchenko, co-rapporteur, Mikola Traiduk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, this bill is the 31st page of proposals that should guarantee that journalists will work easily in the elections. We developed this bill with media lawyers, with journalists, with representatives of the Media Law Institute, with the Industrial Television Committee, with the independent language association, with representatives of the CDC. But the law obviously doesn't make these proposals for a simple reason, because the bill was registered four years ago. During this time, we have been able to adopt a new Law on the Election of People’s Deputies. The question remains: Why did this bill lie under a dress for four years? But right now, I have no choice but to suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that I withdraw this bill from consideration. Taking advantage of what I'm on the rostrum, I just want to say that this doesn't capture the question of how journalists and mass media will work in the next election campaign. The three key problems that we now see, first of all, are not enough guarantees in the law that journalists work in polling stations. I remind you, what we saw at the polling stations in footwear on Sunday, when one of our colleagues was trying to force Irina Heratchenko out of the polling station, and I don't think it's good for those journalists who are going to work in the polling stations in the parliamentary elections. The other one. We have an outstanding issue of agitation. According to the electoral law in force, the assembly story of the Party of Regions in the Novin release could be treated as an electoral campaign because there is party symbolism and party name. And this in the canal could take away the license. Third. We have a big question about creating equality, the conditions in the agitation for the participants of the future elections. We know that there's a situation of censorship, there's censorship on the canals, there's no government channels coming back with instructions that and how to show how to explain the government's work. The problem remains. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I call for this bill to be withdrawn and I urge all of us to keep a close eye on how journalists will get the opportunity or not get the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion to withdraw from the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on pre-election agitation and vote in the media is put to the vote. [[Registration number 2764]] Please vote. [[17:20:26]] For 318 Decision taken. With regard to the observation of just and fair Andrey Shevchenk that the law has been under review for such a long time since 2008, I draw the attention of our respective committees to the fact that this law has only been considered by the committee at the end of 2011. That is, it took three years to propose that the bill should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative. Three years! I'd like the committee heads to pay attention to that. Now, honourable colleagues, your consideration is suggested by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on the distribution of advertising materials]] [[Registration number 7123]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. [[17:21:38]] For-195 Decision taken. Andrew Shevchenko is a reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, this bill was registered with our colleagues, Ruslan Knazević, Eugene Suslov and Vladislav Kaskov, and we were helped to develop his experts from the international social organization Internews-Ukraine. It applies to the Law on Local Elections. The law is very simple, it has two positions. First position. I would like to remind you that the Law on Local Elections in force obliges him to put electoral advocacy on official stand alone. How does this work in practice? It's not working. We've got friends, everything, and enemies, the law. And we've seen, for example, in the last elections in footwear, that Hani Starik's father-in-law candidate was warned about the cards that were flagged in the city, even though no one could prove that this candidate was the one who placed these cards in unexpected places. I think that the obvious solution, we need to delete this rule, it's not working, but it could be used to prosecute unconstitutional candidates. And second position. You know that under the current law, media should provide equal opportunities, except for those that are the founders of political parties or candidates as individuals. We think the change should be the next one. The party press, indeed, should be aspiring for one party or another, for those or other candidates, but with regard to individuals, the private press, everything should be comparable. The same rules should be applied to those newspapers that are established by candidates for the MPs as to another private press. I know that when I looked at this bill, I supported one of the positions and didn't support the second position. I think even if one of the two positions became the norm of the law, it would be good for the country. So I would suggest the following logic: to support the bill as a basis. If one of the two remaining positions of second reading and the law as a whole were left, it would be beneficial. I'll ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting a motion to the vote. Please, from the committee of Mikola Traiduk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u109	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on 14 December 2011, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, submitted by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Shevchenko, Suslov, Knazević, Miroshnichenko and Kassikiv. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee fully agreed with the proposals of the Scientific and Expert Directorate and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft amending the Ukrainian law to re-establish the right of the legislative initiative to work. [[Registration number 7123]] Please be supportive. In the discussion, I think all the reasons will be told why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u110	Please sign up for the discussion if you need to. Lesya the Ripper, the faction. Ruslan Knazevitch, then – Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u111	Dear colleagues! This is another example of what we have just had to look at when the "dog voice" is already introducing a draft amendment to the Local Council Election Act at a time when it was submitted in September 2010 just before the election to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Local Councils. For two years he has held on to the committee and is now taking into account the Parliamentary Hall. Absurd! But the question is not that we actually have the situation that we have, the Law on Elections of Local Councils was adopted in the worst way as I see it, in which it actually opens the gateways in every direction in order to make it impossible to ensure fair elections properly, but instead everything is done in this law to distort the results of national will. And here's shoes, not even an indicator, we have a series of such elections, starting in 2010, I'm not saying what was done during the election campaign itself. So obviously in this part, first of all, we have to regulate legislation, it's our attempt to just get attention with Andrey Shevchenko when the law just took turns, that he needed to improve, that now he needs to improve radically. And that's why I think it would be good if we were to approach the whole law in a comprehensive way, not just that. And if today's decision isn't taken, I see in the session room that the decision won't be taken, I call on my colleagues, let's do it, including considering that in the Law on Elections of People's Deputies a lot has already been settled, we're going to try to extend this act to local councils. Because if someone thinks that this law is no longer relevant right now, because the next election will be in 2015, I'm pointing out that we've already made dozens of decisions today on the appointment of out-of-court elections that are taking place on the basis of the very norms that are infamous, which distort national will and that the main ones that we finally have are making serious conflicts at the level of self-government bodies across Ukraine. So you're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u112	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u113	There's nothing to drag into a long box to solve this problem. If we can't do it today, let's go ahead and take these questions off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u114	Gennady Zdirko, group of Reforms for the Future, then Mikhail Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u115	Gennady Zadirko, MP of Reforms for the Future, Mikolayevščina. I agree with the statement made by the previous speaker about what the Law on the Elections of Local Councils really needs to be improved. And it's obvious that such steps have to be done because the law has really been adopted in the worst form, and we actually vote every plenary week on the elections in the local councils where they are needed. As far as I am concerned personally, I will uphold this law. Because this law actually removes restrictions on the distribution of advertising materials and, of course, they cannot be only in places where they are intended by local authorities. Because, in fact, the administrative resource is something that unfortunately exists in the real conditions of our country. Nevertheless, all candidates need to be given a level playing field. Moreover, the privileges of candidates who own the media should be abolished. And this bill clearly regulates that. More than that, as I personally believe, if improvements are to be made, it is essential to predict that the election of the city heads should take place in two tours, if no candidate can get 50 percent. Because time itself dictates such conditions, we need to increase the legitimacy of selected city heads, and this can be done by the Supreme Council. Because, in fact, there is a very big question for such city heads as were voted for by 15, 16, 17 percent of the city’s population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u116	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u117	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, the interesting position of our opposition, I'm sorry for the combination. You're trying to blame anyone for your defeat: a party of regions, power, law, people who don't vote for you. But you're wrong to look inside yourself. That's where it sounded like something was wrong in footwear. Excuse me, what was wrong with the shoe? To you, Jula Vladimirovna said, "Shame! My children, unite." What did you do? What did you do in the shoes? Followed by 12 columns, biting each other: Clumsy, then – the Change Front, BUT, they tore up their lecture. We weren't doing anything there, we were watching your show. And when people saw what kind of miracle workers went to power, they voted for us. We don't have to do anything. If you're gonna act like this, we don't have to do anything. Therefore, the flag is in your hands, take 11 columns to the parliamentary elections – a flag in your hands. And with regard to this law, I repeat, make mistakes in your search, not in the laws. This law is simply, in our view, inadequate today, and it will only squander the legislative field and we believe that it does not simply need to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u118	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, I understand such a possum and emotion in discussing this bill. Regrettably, we lacked common sense in adopting the Law on the Election of Local Council Deputies to contain the standard that we placed in the election of the Supreme Council deputies. That electoral documentation should be kept for five years and could be opened in five years. If this rule were to be in the Law by election to local councils, there would be less presumptuousness, emotion, and such unforeseeable talk. Because a few years later, protocols would be opened, and they would see that some 10,000 protocols had disappeared in the local council elections, and about 5,000 had been rewritten. And then the people who founded the teachers, the medics, the local elections, unfortunately, would have to be judged. Fortunately, we've had enough sense to put the election law into the Supreme Council. Now, about this law. Clearly, we are destined to accept a new edition of the Law on Elections to Local Self - Government Authorities. So another disgrace that was in the election to local councils and that takes place in the election, Ukraine will not stand and the people will not stand. This new edition should, of course, make changes to the standards mentioned by Andrew Shevchenko. But I am convinced that today the law does not have to be passed, but we need to work together and actually prepare a law, a new regulation, in general, for elections to local self-government. Although there is, of course, a danger that local authorities will use local media in their own interests, we see it. Today, I went to the committee to examine how newspapers work in Kiev. That the newspaper Khreshtick, which we finance, only tells about Alexander Popov, means she doesn't put up other candidates. I've been hosting citizens, and it turns out that the heads of the administration's paradise have said that in order for the national MP to announce that he's bringing in the citizens according to the law, I have to pay the money. I pay money in a district newspaper that is founded by the state, and for which we pay that the national MP Tomenko, according to the Law on the Status of Deputies, conducts the reception of citizens and pays the money. So we're going to get to the point where they're going to be printing soon, just who the head of the board met, how he was going from home to work, for our money. So once again, there's a problem. But let's get together and adopt a new draft of the law, and send the bill out for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, on the basis of. [[Registration number 7123]] [[on the distribution of advertising materials]] [[17:35:26]] Z-70. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[17:35:52]] For 106 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the suspension or termination of a party]] [[9276 - Project Registration Number]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. [[17:36:30.]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Alexander Chernomorov, deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u121	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Perhaps many of us have witnessed a situation where a citizen, especially an active citizen, tries to step out of the party, usually small and the party puts sticks in his wheels. I mean, she lost her record, she didn't hold a conference, she didn't hold an assembly. He's already coming with another party. Courts begin that he got out wrong. Article 36 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the free entry or withdrawal of citizens'associations is violated. Therefore, in order to fill this gap, I have submitted this bill on notice of withdrawal by notification. The project is short. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed on December 7, 2011, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties of Ukraine. [[on the suspension or termination of political party membership]] The content of the bill is to amend article 6 of the Law on Political Parties in Ukraine, which provides for the legal regulation of the procedure for halting or terminating Ukrainian citizens' membership in political parties, by applying to the relevant statutory bodies of political parties. At present, the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Political Parties in Ukraine do not directly regulate the order of cessation or termination of membership in political parties according to part five and paragraph six of the third, parts of the first article 8 of the Act. These issues must be determined by the political party itself in its statute. Moreover, the rules of law provide for the cessation of membership in political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u122	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u123	who cannot be members of the political parties at the time of these positions, Part Four of Article 6 of the Law. The list of such persons is set out in part three of article 6 of the law: judges, prosecutors, internal affairs officials, Ukrainian security officers, military officials, and others. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, to date, only some of the statutes of the political parties contain provisions that provide for the so-called reported nature of the suspension or termination of political party membership, the content of which is considered to cease from the date set out in the application, but to the later date of registration of such a declaration. Instead, the statutes of many political parties contain a more complex, statutory political party decision - making procedure for the suspension or termination of membership. Thus, the existing approach to regulating the cessation and cessation of citizens’ membership in political parties provides for the complete transfer of these issues to political parties themselves and has some negative consequences. The Committee believes that the legislative proposal is relevant and worthy of support because the introduction of the reported nature of the suspension or termination of the membership of Ukrainian citizens in the political party will be seen as an additional guarantee of their right to freedom of association in accordance with article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office recommends that the first reading be based. The review committee recommends acceptance in the first reading and in general. On the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u124	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up. There are those who would like to speak. Name, please. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u125	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that if we adopt this bill, we will force the political parties to bring their statutes into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. First moment. One second. The proposed project fully corresponds to the content of the constitutional right to the freedom of citizens to unite about political parties and social organizations. With regard to public organizations, citizens’ associations, we have talked about this today and have passed the law. As far as parties are concerned, the right here is not only to form a variety of citizens' associations, including parties, to join them, but also to refrain from joining them, but also to be free to leave at any time since the citizens' union. Therefore, the adoption of this bill is in line with article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine. A party of regions is in favour of taking the whole as a basis, as this solves the question of constitutional norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u126	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Then Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u127	Gentlemen, we need to look at this bill from a moral point of view, which is not a step like getting fired. And here, if a person is materially responsible, he has to report, and then he's released or not released. In this case it's a reporting character, it's kind of a kind of a demarche, you could say. And in this respect, you just have to accept that you know that you're out of the party. And that's perfectly normal logic, and I think that, really, here we have to adopt this law, including in general, because I don't know what amendments we can add there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u128	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u129	Vladimir Karpuk. All we have to do is thank the author for the reporting nature of the party exit, because with the large number of parties, almost 200 in Ukraine, of course, there are people who want to go to several parties. And there are people in this room who are already in the House. There were, and I counted one of them that he was in seven parties during the term. Because of the fact that, of course, why do people suffer, wait until they're released, apply, and tomorrow can easily enter the party and become a record player in Ukraine, or even fall into the Guinness Book of Records by the number of parties that he's been through in a short period of time. So I approve of this bill, and I can really accept it as a whole, so that's why there's now a merger of parties going on, and especially the introduction to the largest party in Ukraine, as they're great, that's going to make the party grow. With God!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u130	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. Is there no objection? None. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Political Parties Act to adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law. [[concerning the suspension or termination of a party]] [[Registration number 9276]] [[17:44:42]] For 277 The law is passed. Yes, honourable national deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Energy Conservation Act. [[on the payment of national energy saving expertise]] [[8554 Registration Number]] It is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. [[17:45:22]] For 214 Decision taken. The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Igor Głushchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u131	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has considered a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Energy Conservation Act, which I have submitted as the author of the initiative. [[on the payment of national energy saving expertise]] [[Registration number 8554]] The draft law is designed to create the right conditions for State control measures in the field of efficient use of fuel and energy resources, to conduct a state energy conservation expertise, to address the issue of the payment of a state energy conservation expert whose conclusion is one of the main documents in the award of State preferences. The Budget Committee of the Supreme Council of 5 July 2011 decided that the bill had a positive impact on the budget and could take effect under legislation. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions in the preparation of the paper for second reading. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill does not fully meet the requirements of the legislative technique. Thus, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u132	Deputies! Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss this? Nobody insists? No, it's not. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Energy Conservation Act. [[on the payment of national energy saving expertise]] [[Registration number 8554]] [[17:47:43]] For 255 Decision taken. Another project, dear colleagues. This is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws to provide social security to mining, mining and state-owned coal industry emergency services. [[Carbon]] [[forms]] [[Registration numbers 9184, 9184-1]] The authors are Ukrainian national deputies Viktor Turmanov and Eugene Volinec. The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:48:38]] For 213 Decision taken. Victor Ivanovich Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u133	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You have been given attention to the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws concerning the provision of social security for workers in mining, mining, coal-based enterprises, public paramilitary relief services in the coal industry. [[formations]] This legislative initiative is due to the need to harmonize the rules of fundamental coal legislation, to address social injustice against coal mining workers and public paramilitary relief services. The bill proposes to extend the provisions of article 1.43.48 of the Ukrainian Mining Law to state paramilitary emergency services and coal mining workers. The bill provides for the same conditions for the provision of free house coal or compensation for the payment of utilities that are eligible for such services to mine workers and public paramilitary emergency services in the coal sector. The Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy, Nuclear Safety and Nuclear Safety considered on 19 October 2011 the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on social security for workers in mining, mining, coal-building, public paramilitary relief services in the coal industry, No. 9184, and suggests that, as a result of the first reading, it be accepted as a basis and that all comments and proposals for the bill be taken into account in furthering the second reading. Please support the Committee's decision and please support the parliamentary colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u134	Thank you, too. Eugene Volintz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u135	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! That was the law. A similar law was drafted and passed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for another year. Sadly, after reading first, he did not find support in his second reading. This year we have drafted a similar bill. The bill proposes to extend the right to free coal production in addition to workers from coal and coal companies, coal companies, mining companies and state-owned emergency rescue services, formations, and families of pensioners, disabled persons who have died from general illness, if they have exercised this right to life, which is due to the loss of a breadwinner and some others, article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Law. It is proposed to change the conditions of coal provision for workers and pensioners, as well as their families for mining and coal-processing enterprises, coal-fired, reorganised or preserved industries, adding mine-building enterprises, part 5 of Article 48, and to establish that, both during and after liquidation, reorganization or conservation, such provision is carried out by the successor in the absence of local budgets through subsidies to the budget. So that I can explain in a little more understood language. Here, let's say the miner works, the miner has a wife who works in the library. After the death of the miner, unfortunately, it cannot obtain a quarter under the current legislation, and for 800-900 bracelets of pension or a librarian's salary, it unfortunately cannot buy enough coal because it is now a tonne of coal normal from 1200 and above. The same is true of enterprises that are in the process of being eliminated. They're not in the Ministry, they're not in the restructuring.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u136	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u137	Unfortunately, these categories of citizens, she, believe me, have risen considerably between the two organizations. Regrettably, neither the quartz nor the benefits that were laid down by the mining legislation can be used. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u138	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues who will speak on this matter. If they're willing, sign up, no, we will. If you do, sign up, if you don't, we'll vote. Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u139	Vladimir Karpuk. I'm asking you to give the word to Wolin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u140	Please, Michael Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u141	Honorable colleagues, extremely interesting and very important bills are now being tabled. They touch the benefits for miners and the establishment of justice. And let's take a close look at this. The builders Turmanov spoke of. Today, a large part of these miners are not supplied with the benefits of coal mining, which are provided by coal miners. And they're in the same mines, in the same conditions, sometimes in much worse conditions, there's coal miners. And the authors suggest that justice be restored here. That's what's going on with the mining workers. Same situation. Kravchenka and Eugenia Volinz's bill, just like Turmanova, along with the people's deputies Landik, Vecerk, Kraljevska, I, at various times, developed the same drafts. There was a party of regions that fell on them. I hope that you will now vote in favour of your one-party bill, as well as for representatives of your coalition, the Eugenia Volinz and Kravchenko bill. The normal, good bills, the Fatherland party will vote for them. And I want to draw attention to the fact that people who have worked their entire lives on mines have an internship of 30 years, an internship of 40 years, and then a person dies, and a family that has no means of living, this family today cannot even provide heating in its own home, its own home. The same is true of those categories of people who have set up an autonomous heating system in their homes today, and they do not have the right to compensation for the use of electricity and gas, nor do they have the right to obtain coal. In Germany, for example, a person worked on a mine or a miner himself, or his family had the right to receive 6 tons of coal if you did not want coal to be compensated.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u142	Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u143	Therefore, the drafters of the bill took the matter into account. At the present time, Parliament will consider in its first reading a bill in the development of the Royal Natalia, and at my own part, where all of these issues also complement some of the points that are not regulated by legislation. Here, Landik, I don't know if you support me or if you don't want to, but you've drafted the same bill that your one-party people didn't support and I'm surprised. Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard to imagine how simple it is for miners to work hard. This should be there, not necessarily work, once seen, and never raise your hand so as not to vote for such bills. I know that the Party of Regions decided today not to vote in favour of Kravchenka and Eugene Wolinz's bill. Please don't do this. And Turmanov's bill, in order to get as far away as possible, to step away from responsibility, had previously decided to send for work. What else can we do? I warned you that the five bills were developed in a series of ways, representatives of different factions, and you're blocking it for some reason. What are you going to go to the polls with, Your Honor? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, who's there, asshole? National MP Kurilo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, the Reforms for the Future faction has reviewed the bill and will vote in favour. We've studied the situation, and if this bill is adopted, social justice will be restored, what was previously overlooked. And a number of categories of people working in the coal industry will be able to receive any additional benefits. This is primarily true of miners, and this is true of mining services, people who work in these services. The thing is, these people really, they may be no less, and sometimes more, they suffer from what's going on in the mine. And that's why I urge everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m1.u146	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I put bills to the vote in order to register them and discuss them. The first is a project sponsored by national deputy Viktor Turmanov. This is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws to provide social security to mining workers, state-owned coal industry emergency services. [[Carbon]] [[forms]] [[Registration number 9184]] Please vote. [[17:59:59:59]] For 133 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 3, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 67, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 18, Communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional - 1. I am betting on a bill to adopt it on the basis of amendments to the Mining Law of Ukraine. [[on coal security for mining workers]] The authors are national deputies Kravchenko and Wolinec. Registration number 9184-1. Please vote. Please vote. [[18:00:47]] For 133 The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 2, "BUT – Fatherland" – 67, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 18, Communists – 25, People's Party – 16, "Reforms for the Future" – 4, non-factional – 1. I will now put to the vote to work on the re-establishment of the right of legislators, the draft of Victor Turmanov's Law, on the return of the subject to the right of legislative initiative. Please [[18:01:41]] For 301 Decision taken. And I'm putting to the vote a motion for a return to the draft law. [[Registration number 9184-1]] Authors Kravchenko, Volinec. It's for work, maybe they'll come together. Please vote. [[18:02:09]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. In this way, I would ask the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to work on this project. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council will continue its plenary work from 10 a.m. to Friday.
