ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:10]] There were 401 deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! We continue our consideration of Tuesday’s February 21 issues. I suggest that you consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the limitation of civilian efficiency of those who abuse gambling]] [[Registration number 8266]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. No objections? I'm betting on the vote and I'm asking you to prepare Yuri Odarchenko as a reporter. [[16:02:03]] For 178. Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Vitaliovich Odarchenko. Coroner is the head of the Legal Policy Committee's subcommittee Vladislav Zabarski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! Regrettably, there is a problem among Ukraine’s population with problems such as alcoholism and drug abuse. The bill deals with cases that the World Health Organization calls “pathological gambling. ” The main difference between those who are not dependent on gambling and those who suffer from mania and gambling is significant. If the first play to get contentment, a good time, never lose the last penny, and not lose at all, but as pay for a good time, the gamers don't get the satisfaction of the game. Doctors explain that when a person can’t get out of the game, even if he wants to, he doesn’t get out of the game of pleasure, but he simply suppresses the constant inner discomfort, puts in the game the last money, takes in debt, sells his property, with a population of all these factors called the sick and is subject to treatment. In fact, the difference between gambling and a simple game is the same as the difference between a chronic alcoholic and a person who drinks to celebrate a holiday or with friends on a hunt. Chronic alcoholics may be limited in civilian efficiency, and the court has the opportunity to protect their families by forbidding a sick person to sell his or her property on his or her own. Sadly, though, there is nothing they can do to help families where their father or mother is selling the last one, leaving their loved ones on the street for another card game or another night at the slot machines. The bill adds a pathological tendency to gamble to a list of reasons for limiting civilian efficiency.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u3	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u4	Dear friends, in most parts of the world, including Russia, there is such a standard. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u5	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Vladislav Valeriovich Zabarski, please make the decision of the committee. Sergei Mishchenko, head of the Committee on Legal Policy, please. We're raising the status. It's an important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u6	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw attention to this bill. The committee supported him. I want to talk about the essence of it. Worldwide, there is such a disease as hembling, a disease that has long been treated around the world. In our diagnosis and disease skills, the concept of game addiction, or people who depend on other reasons, goes to casinos, to machine guns, and they need to be treated. Since a person is dependent, he enjoys it for himself, but his family and children suffer because he does not pay for the family, he brings out all that is available and spares his family and children. So for today, such a person must be taken away. until he is cured, both by trial and by drug addicts as well as by alcoholics, as by mental illness, until he is counted, the possibility that he will not suffer the consequences of what he has in his family. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. The science-expert management has reached a positive conclusion on this bill, no comment other than a note by name. That's why I think we can take into account the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration and accept it as a whole. The committee also asks him to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, if there is a need to comment on this legislative initiative, please register. Yes, I'd like the names of the National Deputies. Valerius Kamchatny, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u8	Please give the floor to my colleague for the MP group "Reform for the Future" Kuril Vitali Semenovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u9	Please, this is Kuril Vitalia's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u10	Honourable National Deputies, submitted by Ukraine’s national deputy Odarchenk and Mishchenk, have the purpose of restricting the civil capacity of those who abuse, in their view, gambling, taking into account the extremely widespread participation of natural persons in gambling for money. In honoring the noble purpose of the draft decision, it should be noted that the issue is declarative and that it is a simple prohibition to delay the problem. Without examining the problem, it cannot be solved simply by a ban. This is the first time. Secondly, how do you analyze the level of game addiction? This can be achieved by the fact that the husband and his friends are playing the game of preference and that his wife did not like it, and what next? Human efficiency has been limited. The initiative is quite controversial. In my personal opinion, this issue should be addressed through the development and implementation of new legislation on the game business. We need to ban the same slot machines, the same game business, but we can put the problem in the home and make the bills at the level of the living because of the limitations of this kind of efficiency. So I think that this bill needs to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u11	Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u12	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The fact that gambling is not just an abuse, but a disease is a fact. Both the subject of the legislative initiative and the speaker, Mr. Odarchenko, is obviously right in that this is a social problem, since it is less likely to be given attention because a person is of a kind, that he has a lot of adrenaline when he plays gambling. But first of all, this is bad for him, not for himself, but for the families from which the money is being removed. And often this dependence on the level of mentality on gambling results in a person committing a crime, including a criminal offence, that is, a crime, particularly theft, a robbery, often derived from such a physical dependency of a person, I emphasize the physiological, apparently psychological, dependence of a person on the fact that he is involved in gambling. But I agree with the previous speaker in what context, in that it's very difficult to identify what are the criteria for whether or not a person misuses gambling, how many times a week or how many times a month this person has to gamble to qualify as one who abuses gambling. But I don't think that's important. There is an important desire to provide for families, to protect children from those who act to the detriment of their children and their families. [[Usually, it's not women, it's men.]] The bill, as a minimum, can be supported in the first reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u13	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Before I speak, I would like to ask the audience why this law was needed. All of you remember that in 2009, the Supreme Council, after overcoming the presidential veto of then - President Yushchenk, banned the gambling business or the business that had to do with the money. Why is there a question in this regard that we need to now consider the law, where we need to determine that we have this problem, that it is a problem, that such people are, and that they really have so-called signs of disease. This is because, in my view, what law prohibits gambling in Ukraine today is not fully operational. There are a number of underground casinos that are covered by those or other officials who are required to follow the authority precisely to prevent this game business from taking place on the one hand. On the other hand, you know that today it works, so to speak, through computer casinos operating under one server or another. And here we have to give the law enforcement authorities a check, and it is through the computer system that they organize the game for money, and accordingly there are all the signs that it is a casino. I think that the Supreme Council, when it passed the law, made our population safe from the disease that is called immigration in the world. And it is because of this law that a large part of our families, so to speak, remained their wealth, remained in that they did not bring all their wages into the casino and left them in their families. That's why I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, ask you if the Supreme Council will vote in favour of the first reading, instruct you to duly formulate a parliamentary appeal to the law enforcement authorities that are competent to enter and listen here if possible or on "the days of the Government."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u15	Microphone, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u16	When the "government day" comes, the answer will be given, and how this law is implemented in Ukraine, and what changes should be made if these issues are not addressed enough today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u17	Thank you. I think the last thing you can do is prepare a letter during the time. One minute that in "hours of questions to the government" and that question the government gave an answer. The prince, and then Shishkina, right? One minute, you have Knyazevitch, and then Shiskina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the last reporter in the rostrum asked the question quite logically: How could that be? We seem to have eliminated it, but so far we have people suffering from this kind of disease. This was precisely the reason why opposition deputies were trying to initiate the issue. Because to say that by adopting the law banning gambling we have eradicated the phenomenon is to lie and lie to ourselves. In fact, the situation is actually continuing to evolve as the drafters try to regulate the bill. Special skills in mental illness have been introduced as a common phenomenon in Ukraine, even though it does not seem to exist. So I realize that it's not in the mood to vote for this bill right now, but the idea is, let's use it either during the proper work that was just proposed, or by making changes to that bill that's the main part, because unfortunately, we've only created a problem because.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u19	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u20	Because in a case where everything has really gone underground, we're unable to control the definition of the spread of such social distress as.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u21	Thank you. Please, Shishkini microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, will certainly support this bill, because it is primarily aimed at securing families, close people, those players who spend hours in casinos who spend hours playing one-handed bandits. And it's not about the preference of a man in front of his wife, it's about the psychological dependence of players, it's the disease, and my colleagues have already talked about it. Civil fitness involves the ability of a person to understand and understand and manage his actions, most importantly. Gamblers who sit behind slot machines for 20 hours no longer realize that they are game dependent. That's why it's a useful and very useful bill. And, of course, we will support it and urge the Hall to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u23	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. So let's do this, if the Supreme Council supports adoption as a basis, we will continue to consult on the final decision on this bill. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the limitation of civilian efficiency of those who abuse gambling]] [[Registration number 8266]] Please vote. [[16:17:23]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal to take into account the recommendations of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to accept it as a whole. The proposal also referred to the recommendation of the Scientific and Expert Directorate on the need to clarify the name of the bill and to call it in the form of amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the limitation of civilian efficiency of those who abuse gambling]] Yes, Sergei. The head of the committee, Sergey Mishchenko? We can put, Sergey Grigorovitch, with precision, taking into account the proposals of the Scientific and Experimental Administration for adoption as a whole. Mishchenka, microphone, please
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u24	I understand that those who are now yelling about what is now against this law are those people who, or who go to forbidden places, play whether they're "breaking" a gambling game. I am grateful to the Hall for that, and to those deputies who have supported this bill in this number. There are no comments, all of them, except for those who "break" or play for this bill. So I'm asking you to take into account the observation of the Scientific and Experimental Authority in the name of what you said, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and to vote on it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, the details of which are discussed. In the draft law, the author writes, "the laws of Ukraine." And the science-expert administration is proposing "the laws of Ukraine," so it's going to be a more precise formulation. Therefore, honourable colleagues, since you do not object to the adoption of the law as a whole, we must first vote on the name of the draft law. In case of support, I'll put a final vote on the decision. Is the offer accepted? I am voting on the proposal to put forward the title of the bill as follows: "To amend some legislation in Ukraine." [[on the limitation of civilian efficiency of those who abuse gambling]] Please vote. [[16:20:01]] For 353 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the limitation of civilian efficiency of those who abuse gambling]] Please vote. [[16:20:37]] For 354 The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 37 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. [[on the increase in the income portion of the general government social insurance funds]] [[8508]] The proposal was a reduced procedure. I'm putting her to the vote. Please vote. [[16:21:16]] For 233 Decision taken. The reporter is Dry Jaroslav Mikhajlovich. Coroner is the first deputy head of the Justice Committee, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, today the debt owed to the Social Insurance Fund has exceeded 22 billion dollars, which is extremely critical. I want to remind you all that insurance premiums are a form of wage reserve that provides material pay and social services in case of an insurance accident. It's not a tax. As a result, it is necessary to treat and treat all caregivers with care to pay social security contributions. I want to remind you, there are four funds, four types of social insurance in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, think about it, the budget is 240 billion dollars. And whatever these funds are, where would we get in the 380 billion-dollar budget of Ukraine the cost of birth and burial, material unemployment aid, material aid in case of accidents in the production of so-called regressions? So in early 2011, we passed a bill with you, and the president signed it, which meant increasing and stabilizing social insurance budgets. My colleague Shevchuk and I are introducing this bill, which is short-circuited: it is being established. In the cases established by law, it is prohibited for a public executioner to stop the enforcement of the decisions to collect the debt from the payment of a single contribution to the general government social security insurance to the pension funds and the payment of contributions to the general government social insurance funds. I would also like to point out that in this bill we have clearly deviated from that standard when the collection of court debt from any other subject of farming has stopped production. Thus, our law does not apply to the basic means used in the production process. Main scientific expertise.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u28	The main science and expertise department, the profile committee that will report now, and I invite you, from the author of another, to support this bill in the first reading. He'll let us stabilize the social insurance budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u29	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, please the first deputy head of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u30	Yuri Carmazin. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered at its meeting a project submitted by the people’s deputies Shevchuk and Suhim. The bill was introduced in the order of part of article 90 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules for the removal of a legislative body in part of the settlement of the characteristics of the debtor’s appeal and property, a legal person proposed by another draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the increase in the income portion of the general government social insurance funds. This is 6115. The proposed changes provide for the imposition of a ban on the State’s enforcement of decisions to collect the debt from a single contribution to a mandatory state social insurance scheme to the authorities of the Pension Fund of Ukraine and the payment of contributions to the general government social insurance fund, which arose by January 1, 2011. The project proposes to abolish the moratorium on the decision to meet the requirements of the public social security funds and the Ukrainian Pension Fund. It should be noted that today there is a problem with the failure to implement a large part of the decisions in relation to the existence of legislation that prohibits the use of individual property or the cost of debtors. Ukraine's laws on the imposition of a moratorium on the enforcement of property and on measures to ensure the continued operation of fuel-energy enterprises are the most negative influence on the enforcement of judicial decisions. According to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, these moratoriums do not currently result in a decision to raise the debt of some 22 billion dollars. In this regard, the Committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Increases in the Income Part of the Budgets of the General Compulsory Social Insurance Funds, submitted by the People’s Deputies Shevchuk and Suchim. And the Chief Scientific Expert.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u31	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u32	And the experts at the Institute of Law of the Supreme Council, the National Academy of Law, the National University of the Odessa Law Academy, the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka agree with the need to harmonize the legislative norms in the settlement of the characteristics of the appeal and the property of the debtor-legal person and support the adoption of the bill in the proposed edition. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u34	Dear friends! The president of the country, Viktor Janukovic, from this rostrum, turned to both the right and the left of the hall for the reason that we need to forget the massacre and consolidate our efforts towards economic recovery, the drafting of bills aimed at raising the economy and improving the well-being of the people. And I am glad that we, the President's call for consolidation, have been heard. This morning, you heard the party leader Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk ask to join the President to help him meet the serious problems facing the country and to work with the President to the State. It was nice when the previous bill, which came from Fatherland, was actually written in the style of the Party of Regions and in the style of the majority, where there were absolutely no lobbyist aspirations, it was supported by a hall. And I think the previous author, he really deserves to get into the majority, at least in the Reform for the Future. Well, I see that the bill, too, is supported by the hall. And the representative of the opposition, Yuri Anatolevich, is also said to support the President in his consolidation efforts and supports the bill. I therefore propose to support Yuri Anatolevich Karmazin in voting for the bill. In general, we are on the right track because we support the President's consolidating, unifying position towards economic recovery and prosperity. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u35	Andrew Shevchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u36	Suskevitch Valery Mikhailovich, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u37	Valerius Suškević, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Suškević, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. You know, I'd like to support not only Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, but our pensioners. And the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, after considering this legislative initiative, supports this bill. I would like to draw attention to two aspects of this bill. What we're talking about is the balance of the Pension Fund and the fate of our pensioners, dear friends. Because the really interesting benefits that are set out in the Law on Executive Management actually allow for the avoidance of payments to the Pension Fund of many PEC enterprises. Today, I can say that the real 2011 liability is estimated at hundreds of millions. What's more, not everyone's insured is the loss of pensioners' ability to get pension benefits. I therefore believe that this bill should be adopted in the first reading. But I would like to point out that today, one and a half billion dollars, listed as number one and two, are underpaid by PEKU to the Pension Fund as compensation to insured persons by these companies. And this is a substantial addition that I, personally, will be introducing this bill from the Yulia Timoshenko faction to correct the Pension Fund, because that pension reform that took place essentially did not take into account the extremely large reserves, the substantial reserves that should be used essentially to fill the pension fund. And in this second-reading bill, we certainly need to think about these problems of fuel-energy benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u39	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u40	Which are and actually are imbalanced by the Pension Fund. I propose to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted for further work. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 37 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. [[on the increase in the income portion of the general government social insurance funds]] [[Registration number 8508]] Please vote. [[16:32:01]] For 309 Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice. [[on bringing it into line with the Judicial and Judicial Status Act.]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. The reporter is Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich and a co-rapporteur. [[16:32:31]] For 227 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u42	The bill of the Committee on Justice discussed at its meeting on September 21, last year. He proposes to remove in the Ukrainian Act "The Higher Council of Justice" a reference to a legal act that has long been invalidated. Three members of the High Council of Justice are elected by the assembly of judges. In doing so, article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice states that the order of convening the assembly of judges of Ukraine is determined by the Ukrainian Law on the Organs of Judicial Self-Government. This law became effective as early as June 2002 in connection with the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the Sudokustre of Ukraine. In turn, the Ukrainian Law, which took effect on July 30, 2010. The procedure for convening a meeting of judges for today is governed by article 124 of the new law, which is proposed to establish a reference in part 4 of article 10 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice. The Justice Committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Also, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration of the Bill supports and does not comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u43	Then that's it? Dear colleagues, shall we vote? They insist. We have to sign up for the show. Please, microphones. Bondarenko Volodymyr, Party of Regions. Yes, please. He's refusing. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u44	I'm asking you to pass the word to Mrs. Oleni Shustik, our colleague from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u45	Olena Shustik, Timoshenko's Yuli Block, Fatherland. Then Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Olena Shustik, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. The draft law is indeed technical in nature, but let's think about what we're going to right now is a law that doesn't meet the Constitution and international standards. By the way, the changes to this law were the first step towards the so - called judicial reform. And these changes became the first point in the subsequent destruction of the judiciary in Ukraine. Then, in 2010, the majority uncontrolledly dismissed the judges for the smallest disobedience, and the Council of Justice, which is now two thirds of the government team, decides the fates of the judges who are to be independent under the law. And it is the High Council of Justice, its composition, I stress, and the unconstitutional powers that are or are not the most concerned today by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In its Resolution, the last PARJE points out that the composition of the High Council of Justice is contrary to the principle of the distribution of power and undermines the independence of the judicial system of Ukraine, expresses concern about the numerous credible reports of the initiation of disciplinary action and the dismissal of judges by the Higher Council of Justice on the basis of complaints from the Prosecutor's Office, because the ordered judges have made decisions that contradicted the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office in a particular court case. The Supreme Council of Justice has turned into a body of inquisitions to the unfaithful authorities of judges, and it is because of fear and addiction that the people of Femida take sides in lawlessness and make politically motivated decisions, such as in the Timoshenko and Lucenko case, that they hold judicial sessions in the CIS cells, illegally throw people into jail. Our faction will not support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u47	Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u48	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine. ” I'd like to continue with Mrs. Shustik's speech, and from this principle I've been writing down for the performance. Because the principles that are in force today in the formation of the High Council of Justice really are not in line with the principle of the distribution of power, because the Supreme Council of Justice, which is practically a punishing body for all judges, includes representatives from the President, the Supreme Council, the Prosecutor's Office, and so on. And in the PARJE Resolution, in fact, it points to this incompatibility with the principles of democracy and with the principles of the formation of a judicial system that does not conform to European principles. Because the Higher Council of Justice, which decides the fate of many judges, we see that it is very often influenced by political sympathy or antipathy. And the High Council of Justice is really turning into an organ that has a lot of impact on judicial decisions in the country, and there are practically representatives of one political force. Therefore, it would be necessary to begin to bring the Higher Council of Justice, the legislation relating to the Supreme Council of Justice, in line with international standards, in line with the requirements of the resolution of PARJA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u49	And Grivkowski. He's refusing? He's refusing. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. It is proposed, I remind you, to make only one change, namely: the order of convening of a congress of judges of Ukraine is determined by the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Self-Government Authorities, and it is proposed in the law to provide that the order of convening of a congress of judges of Ukraine is determined by the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. Is the offer understood? There's no objection to her? That's why I'm voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt the draft law as a law amending article 10 of the Law of Ukraine on the Inventory of Justice. [[on bringing it into line with the Judicial and Judicial Status Act.]] [[Registration number 8771]] Please vote. As a law, it's an offer. [[16:39:15]] For 270. The law is passed. Thank you. I'm introducing to your consideration, your esteemed colleagues, the draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[on the position of a physical culture instructor in rural areas]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on voting this proposal, and better yet, let's adopt the law. [[16:39:52]] For 231 Decision taken. The reporter is Mikola Tomenko. Ivanenko Vladimir, head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, will be the focal point.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, we had a preliminary discussion on this bill when we were discussing inclusion in the agenda. So once again, I'm a formal initiator of this bill, because it's about the fact that the sports community, in particular those who work in physical culture and sports, their initiative, they've called on me and our faction "Health and sports Ukraine" to think about what institutional and human resources we have in order to restore physical culture, not as much sport as physical culture to rural areas. To remind you that in the last few decades in the rural area, I mean the village, there have been two responsible people who have taken care of the healthy lifestyle of physical culture and sports: there was a teacher from physical culture and sports and an instructor from physical culture and sports who worked in the rural council system. [[village]] Today, there are 10,000 278 rural councils and 749 rural council instructors in Ukraine. [[of the village]] So over the last 20 years, we've lost about 9-9.5,000 instructors, these are trained people who could work with young people. Given that this year, by the way, was declared a year of sport and a healthy way of life, and we held meetings here in the Supreme Council, and it was found that, given the different circumstances of physical culture and healthy lifestyles, virtually nothing is budgeted, no money for any swimming pool, no sports infrastructure, I think, not this year, because, obviously, if we adopt a bill, this will no longer apply to this year, we have to think about how to plan this system in the next fiscal year. But we have to stop the concept of footballing the country for budget money, because we have soon, so all of Latin America will be living here and getting the normal money, speaking for football teams. You know, in kids' sports schools, we prepare young people for budget money, then they go to football clubs for free, and then they sell them. And then they buy football players from other parts of the world. So that we can invest money in people’s health, in the young generation, and not just in the football business. We're proposing to do a simple and basic thing -- start renovating the infrastructure of those people who would engage in physical culture and sports. In the first phase, I am ready to debate with the government. It might even be in some position at the halfway point, because I understand that it's physical exercise, you have to think, maybe the teacher of physical culture and sports will be somewhere, they'll pay him for it. But if we go an evolutionary way, I think in a few years we can restore that infrastructure, and then the situation disappears. I think you're driving in a rural area, organizing people on a sports field today is extremely difficult. Not just because there is no playground, but because there is no great desire. So I'd like to support the first reading, we'll work with the government, and we'll approve the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u51	Vladimir Ivanenko, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, meeting on October 19, 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to Tomenk. [[on the position of a physical culture instructor in rural areas]] [[Registration number 9102]] The proposed bill proposes to introduce an instructor from physical culture into the executive committees of rural and rural councils and/or in rural sports clubs. The author's approval is that the implementation of the bill will not result in a reduction in revenues to Ukraine's State Budget and does not require additional expenditure from the State Budget. At the same time, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on budget issues that implementation of the bill would require additional budget costs – at least 278 million dollars a year. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support this bill. But committee members supported the bill, as there is a major problem today with the development of sports in rural areas. Sports infrastructure is partially or completely absent, there are now about 15 million people living in Ukraine, most of whom are deprived of the capacity to engage in physical culture. The absence of sports in rural areas causes a host of problems, including early childhood alcoholism, drug addiction, chronic illness, and crime. We need to understand that sport is the only alternative to these destructive, negative phenomena that I've identified. If we want to have a healthy nation, we must first provide every citizen with the opportunity to engage in sports, since it is sport that provides harmonious physical development that allows a person to reveal himself as an individual. The axiom that develops in sports does not need to be confirmed is declining. After all, teenagers often go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u54	Because of the large amount of free time and energy they have nowhere to go. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill in the first reading and accept it as a basis. In the event of a positive decision, the committee will take into account the proposal of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate in preparing the draft draft for the second reading in order to give rural, village councils the right to introduce a physical culture instructor into the executive committee. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u55	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this bill. Names of the national MPs, please. Julia Kovalevska, Party of Regions, then Marina Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u56	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! To my firm conviction, improving the health of the nation should be one of the priorities of public policy. It is man, his health, that is, the greatest treasure of modern - day Ukraine. I am also convinced that physical culture should be an integral companion to a healthy person, from birth, and for life. I would like to remind you that 2012 was declared a year of sports and healthy lifestyle in Ukraine. We need to solve such an important problem as to eliminate indifferentity to our own health. And right now, in public schools, sports and healthy lifestyles are being taught. According to the organizational plan, this year also includes the holding of an all-U.S. competition to create better conditions for sport in the regions. They will be held: mass sports activities among children, among young people before the Euro-2012, mass sports competitions among students and students, Spartacians of schoolchildren, and so on. But no action will be effective if people are self - indifferent to their physical health. So I think it's every citizen's job not only to worry about their own feelings but also to encourage everyone around them to have a healthy lifestyle. Given that in rural areas the conditions for physical culture and sports of children, youth, young people are the least favourable, I think it's a very good bill that needs to be supported in the first reading by working on it for the second. And I encourage everyone, especially the media, to promote sport and a healthy lifestyle. Thank you for your attention. We will support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u57	Marina Perestenko. Sergei Gordienko, please microphone, then Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u58	Ukrainian Company faction, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, 20 years of reform of the agro-industrial complex, and more precisely the collapse, has hit the social sphere very painfully, especially for inter-economic organizations. One of these social organizations was the Colossian Sports Association, which raised many Olympic champions, champions of the world. This sports association had an extremely fragmented material base, as well as a large number of specialists, including sports instructors. But the first were killed under the ax of inter-economic reform, and this is the Colossus Sports Society. There's practically no one in the country to do physical sports today. So today, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill and it considers the only way out of this situation to introduce a sport instructor on the basis of rural and rural councils. And here we offer and point out that we need to do everything we can to preserve the sports base of the Colossian Sports Association, not to let it go to waste. We also draw attention to what they say today: "Where do you get the money for this?".. Let's see what costs do not come to the state budget, at least for the destruction of our natural resources and the resources that are in the country, that's an essential reserve. And what we're going to do with the budget is we're going to lose less than we're going to lose from alcoholism, from drug addiction, when young people are thrown at it, there's no one to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u59	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u60	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mikola Tomenka for raising this subject and raising it more than once, and in the end, it is now reflected in the law. Of course, when you look at what we've just spent, we've blown up, in a straight sense, in support of that word, it's like sports. The construction of stadiums that cost us more than nothing, I mean, the Kiev stadium, and others, that is, the washing of colossal money. The state could simply, at any rate, introduce these instructors and finance them for 10 years, the state could. Tomenko is now proposing that the executive organs contribute to this. So what do we have in the conclusion of Science and Technology? It says that it actually obliges these committees, although there is no obligation. As a result, the committee’s conclusion is wrong. I would ask Mr. Bordinuk to conduct a service investigation, which is why the conclusion is completely unprofessional. And finally, Mr. Head, I would like to address you now in connection with the appeal to me by the disabled of the mining regions of Krivbasu, Donbas, Luhansk district, Lvivsk, Volina, who are now on the 19th floor of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, extracting coal, iron ore and all that and cannot be admitted to Tihyp Sergio Leonidovich. These people have come in catholics, and they've come to the church. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, pick up the phone, make a commitment. Azarov does not accept deputies. Well, these bastards don't even accept disabled people. There are now 40 people with disabilities down on the first floor, 11 in the conference room. Have him accept this delegation from 11 people. Let them manifest their humanity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u61	Thank you. Yuri Litwin, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u62	Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u63	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u64	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we are mistakenly linked to two things — physical and professional sports. And who I'm talking about: physical and professional sports. Me and all of us are for professional sports. This is an ad by Ukraine. This is the image of Ukraine and so on. But ask one elderly retiree in the former professional athlete’s past if he is a healthy person. So let's not get confused. Professional sports haven't made anyone healthy yet. Let's be honest. And there are no healthy people physically -- those who have actually done and have achievements in professional sports. Why do I say that? Because it is right in the legislative initiative that it should not be about a physical and sports instructor. And a physical instructor, from what can really be healthful, including those living in rural areas. So the legislative initiative is absolutely humane, I would say, humanitarian and humane. But maybe Mikola Volodymyrovich will think on second reading, reading, sorry, and make a suggestion that we've decided, and all the village councils should have a physical culture instructor? Because there are rural councils where there are, besides grandmothers and, excuse me, five at the foot of the salt of men of old or not of very old age who will never engage in physical exercise, or should there be an automatic exercise. You don't have to automatically approach that question. There must be a graduation in which rural and rural councils should have an instructor from physical culture and not sports, physical culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u65	Vitaly Kurilo, one minute. Vitali Kurilo, well, one minute. Well, I announced Kurilo and then Kostenko. Well, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, if we have forbidden to play "asshole" in the village, let's at least make sport possible. The proposed bill, in our view, the reform groups for the future, is quite positive, although it needs some clarification. At the same time, most of the time, the village was left out of normal development and functioning: education, culture, sports. Look, if there are sports associations in the city, there are companies in the city, there are groups in the city, there is nothing in the village. Neither the child nor the adult can do anything. In order for the sport to eat at least, it is necessary for him to be the organizer of all of this. And we remember, back in the old days, we had that. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u67	Please, Kostenko, BUT faction, one minute. Kostenko, BEUT faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u68	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, when we consider this bill, we must understand that today it is not the question of establishing a physical culture instructor in rural areas, but of a healthy way of life for children and young people in rural areas. I fully support the author of the bill and the committee's decision that the existing network of children's sports schools, physical sports clubs, does not reach a village that deprives rural children of the right to sports. I'm sure by the second reading, the Ministry of Finance will say, "There's no money in the budget to implement the bill." However, if the State does not allow children to develop themselves in sports, they remain sick, drink alcohol and drugs, break the law. Is it cheaper to spend money on our children’s treatments, to establish a position of instructors in the village? As the drafter put it, we lost 9.5,000 seats over the years of independence. That's why I'm here to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Question completed. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports, please vote. [[on the position of a physical culture instructor in rural areas]] [[Registration number 9102]] [[16:58:20]] For 321 Decision taken. I thank you and ask the committee to work on and find some, there are criteria for establishing appropriate positions. Dear colleagues! I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Social Television and Radio Broadcasting System of Ukraine. [[new editor]] At the same time, distinguished national MPs! The drafters proposed to postpone consideration of the matter. And the point is that this proposal found support in the faction of BUT, the Party of Regions, the National Party and the Company. Is there no objection that we should not vote but that we should postpone consideration of the matter? You don't? Then it's a question. The consideration of the matter is postponed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u70	And the N.O.S. joined.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u71	And the N.O.S. joined? Aah! Lock down the protocol. Dear colleagues! I'm announcing a draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on clarifying the scope of application of the Law and improving individual provisions]] The reporter and co-reporter is the first Deputy Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Helen Bondarenko. In view of your urgent demands, I am voting on the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:00:15]] For 224 Decision taken. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u72	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill is designed to develop the advertising industry, to improve the relevant legislative framework, and to do several important tasks in the system of advertising relations, the state, and advertising consumers. The proposals contained in the bill cover a rather wide range of questions. Yes, at the legislative level, it is proposed to clarify the scope of the Advertising Act, to clarify the legislative terms "advertisement in transport," "external advertising" and some others. In order to protect the health of children, the project prohibits the distribution of child - feeding advertising without indicating the age of the child from which it is permitted to consume the product. In cases where a child’s diet is advertised for children of childbearing age, there is no indication of the need for a doctor’s prior advice. The bill also proposes to supplement the legislative requirements for the amount of mandatory information to be provided when advertising medical devices. It is proposed to clarify the responsibilities of the public authorities on which the control functions in the field of advertising are placed. A single three - day deadline is set for the authorities to notify advertisers, manufacturers, and advertisers of cases of violations of advertising legislation. And in our view, the adoption of these changes will result in a relationship between the advertising sector and the public authorities. So, honourable colleagues, I want to point out that this bill is trying to catch up with the real practice of the advertising industry, from which our domestic legislation began to fall behind. I am also instructed to report this bill on behalf of the committee, so I will say that the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information has considered the draft law at its meeting on October 5 and recommends that it be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The main scientific and expert management proposes that the draft draft be submitted to the Commission for further work on the results of the first reading, but the committee considers it possible to remedy the shortcomings identified by the scientific and expert management when preparing the draft for the second reading. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you for your attention. And once again, the decision to recommend the adoption of Bill 8569 was approved unanimously during the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss this bill, please register. Mikola Kulczynski, who is he telling you? Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. The next Andrew School will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I think the first-reading bill really needs to be supported, it's logical, in most of the details, the additions, the new articles it doesn't challenge. Personally, the only thing that matters to me is article 12. It's about social advertising benefits. I think it needs to be written here more precisely, because not only is there an order from local government or government authorities, social advertising is entitled to benefits. What if it's social advertising from public organizations and it doesn't have a government order? I, for example, as head of the Poltava District Educations, often give social publicity to some of the major Ukrainian cultural actors or to Ukrainian language, and of course it's obviously logical in this context to also have social benefits. And any other public organization that gives social publicity: whether it's the preservation of the environment, whether it's the fight against smoking and alcoholism and drug addiction, all these non-state organizations, non-profit organizations have the right to social benefits, not just those who have orders from local government or government authorities. I would also like to, since the current humanitarian policy of the Ukrainian authorities is very aggressive with regard to Ukrainian language and culture and relies on a very narrow circle of people with racist or Russian nationalism, I would like the drafters of the bill to work on it as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u75	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u76	increasing responsibility for breaking the advertising language under the Advertising Act in Ukraine. I would like to support you in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u77	Thank you. Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I ask you to pass the word to Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u79	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw you to an important bill because there are a number of conflicts every day related to different interpretations of the use of external advertising media. And here's the good news, they're related to the fact that the drafters of the bill are looking for a way to make it as simple as possible for a business that works on the market for external advertising and for the local government. And I support all of this, although we are aware that unfortunately, the peremptory rules of law are not always met by local self-government. We can give an example of a few months ago, on a network of lights in Kiev, there was an ad published by a mass release, where there was a photo of Julia Timoshenko -- and it said, "Innocent." The local authorities said that, or they would dig up these network lines along with the cables and the founders, or they would film this commercial. The commercial went on, well, about 12-14 hours, the owners decided that a better business would be saved, and Timoshenko and the magazine would be good without advertising. Instead, other politicians can travel all over Ukraine, advertise normally, and be overlooked. So, friends, double standards in the placement of commercial political advertising is a fact that happens, and of course you have to respond to it, because checking authorities don't. But there is a bad norm that was spoken of by a colleague of Kulczynski. It seems to me that the article on social advertising is trying to legalize essentially political advertising by commercial officials in the form of social advertising. I have recently published information that journalists from the Cherkas region have given me, where district administrations inform the head of the district administration how many shields they have hanged with the President, with the Party of Regions and so on and so forth. We realize that this is done free of charge under the auspices of social advertising. If we still legitimize the right of state and local authorities to engage in social advertising, you have no doubt that social advertising is going to be a compliment to the head of the district administration with the 12th Christian holidays and the 7th State holidays. By the way, I'd like to draw the attention of the local authorities, the spring is about to begin, and on the boards of Victor Yanukovic with New Year's Eve and Christmas everyone's greetings, it might refresh some of this advertisement. So I'm convinced that social advertising. The authorities should have no relation to social advertising. Social advertising is the promotion of social values, where it's not signed by who does it. It's if your soul hurts, you have to write, "I'm for a healthy way of life!'and there's no signature there. So I say again, there are good ideas here, but the second reading needs to be the most politicized bill and not to write it under the authority, but to write it so that business can feel confident, no matter who's in power, who's putting this ad in, because today, unfortunately, we're in the first place in the amount of external advertising. I think it's also a problem, and it's a good thing in the bill that we're 100 meters away from doing it all. So once again, there's a lot of comments, we need to get them back to second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we finish the discussion? Please. Chaplain? Asshole, please, mike. [[17:09:53]] Asshole G.O. Thank you. The MP Group on Reforms for the Future believes that improvements in advertising legislation are relevant, but considers it necessary to take note of the shortcomings of the bill. It is unacceptable to create a special working body, department, or office to which the local council will be responsible for regulating advertising activities. This is not in line with part three of article 40 of the Constitution, according to which local self - government is exercised by the local community in accordance with the law. Therefore, the use in the draft text of the term "working organs", which is not used in the Constitution or in the Law on Local Self-Government, is unacceptable. In addition, the introduction of such a working body will lead to the establishment of a double procedure for the issuance of advertising permits and will lead to greater corruption. There is also a groundless rule in article 16 concerning the establishment of a seven - year permit for the placement of external advertising, unresolved questions of origin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Please, Landik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, although the bill has some shortcomings, in particular the need to improve its terminology base, the procedure for issuing, extending, transforming and refusing to grant marketing permits, processing in the area of placement of child feeding advertising requirements, etc., is considered possible to remedy these shortcomings when preparing the bill for second reading. I propose to support our committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Law on Social Advertisement of Ukraine. [[on clarifying the scope of application of the law and improving individual regulations]] [[Registration number 8569]] [[17:12:21]] For 284 Decision taken. And as to the information that Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin has provided, I, honourable colleagues, inform you that within two hours, 30 minutes of the disabled miners, the employees of the responsible ministries have been working at the level of deputy ministers. I think they'll find an acceptable solution. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Information Act of Ukraine. [[on the provision of adequate conditions for journalists, media professionals]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'll put this motion to the vote. [[17:13:18]] For 222 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Irina Heraszczenko, co-rapporteur – the first deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information of Olena Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u85	Dear voters, distinguished journalists! Bill 8666 was developed by the Interim Commission of Inquiry into Censorship Cases on the basis of the specific facts of the obstruction of journalistic activity by the protection of senior state officials of journalists***. We all know these cases when journalists were simply prevented from taking action solely on the grounds that they were involved by the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, other persons under State protection. And in such cases, we received almost forty complaints during the commission’s work, one fifth of all those complaints that came to the office of the Interim Investigation Commission from journalists who demanded additional troubles, some additional signs of the recognition of journalists for measures that we believe were simply sometimes expressed by some of the phobias of today’s authorities often about protection. And it was an absolute obstacle to journalistic activity. We remember these disgraceful experiences that we considered in the session hall when journalists were even put on asphalt to protect the leaders of the state on the grounds that they posed a threat to the leadership of the state. In fact, we feel that nothing can narrow down the mandate of a journalist to carry out his professional duties and activities, even the fact that he sheds light on the steps taken by the head of state. And that's why in this project we're proposing legislatively to strengthen the position that simply prohibits the narrowing of journalists' rights to access rooms in the event that they're involved in protective measures, i.e. those to which state protection is exercised. We believe that the adoption of this bill will have a positive impact on the rights of the public to receive information through the media and that this will also work for the transparency of the real and not the declarative authorities and the leadership of the state. We think this bill is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u86	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u87	We think that this bill is particularly relevant today, before the start of the electoral campaign, and when we all talk about the need for real greater transparency of power. A team of authors was working on it, and I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u88	Thank you, too. Oleg Bondarenko, First Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u89	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! The project's authors propose to amend article 26 of the Ukrainian Information Act, which provides additional safeguards for media and journalists. The relevant legislative proposals should prevent practices where state protection, state authorities that have made accreditation, create artificial barriers to the professional activities of journalists and media workers. According to the project’s position, the authorities should notify in advance of the location and time of the session, meetings, meetings, briefings, and other public arrangements, creating conditions for recording and transmitting information, conducting interviews, receiving comments from officials. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information at its meeting on 16 November 2011 reviewed the draft and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill to be adopted as a basis. The chief scientific and expert administration of this bill does not support it, but I ask you to support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u90	Please sign up, Your Honor, for a discussion. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Grivkowski, faction of the People's Party. Oleg Zarubinski, please, then Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Obviously, I think the vast majority in the room will vote in favour of this bill, because it's beautifully called and it raises a good subject. But I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished representatives of the media to the fact that legislation should remain legislation. And if anyone looks at the content of this bill, look what's going on, there are changes to article 26 of the Information Act of Ukraine, but these changes are not consistent with this article itself, in what way? Article 26 of the Information Act sets out the procedure for accreditation of journalists, media professionals, and the bill, in fact, provides for safeguards that are actually provided for, correctly provided for in the safeguards for the activities of media and journalists, and they are just set out in article 25 of the Information Act. You have to bring it where it needs to be imported. One second. Sections 4 and 5 of article 26 of the Information Act do not provide for a list of measures, and the bill refers to these articles 4 and 5, more specifically to article 25 on the list of measures. I mean, the right idea is maybe to vote on the basis, but the material part has to be looked at, and the change is not where it needs to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u92	Vladimir Landik, please, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to stress once again, this bill introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Heratchenko, Landik, Kurpul and other National Deputies on the results of the work of the temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which addressed the issue of obstructing journalistic activity in the course of their official duties. The aim of the bill is to ensure the right of the public to receive information through the media through the enforcement of additional safeguards at the legislative level, which are intended to prevent the failure of public authorities and the local self-government of their obligations as defined in article 26 of the Information Act, to prevent the practice of the creation of authority-driven entities that carried out accreditation, artificial obstacles to the professional activities of journalists and media workers with the motive of participating in appropriate measures by persons subject to State protection. So I support my colleagues, Helen Bondarenko, Irina Heratschenko, and I propose that this bill be voted on as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u94	Andrew Shevchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, the faction of "The Yulia Block Timoshenko – "The Fatherland" will support this bill. Why? I think the Supreme Council should respect the work of the Temporary Special Commission led by Irina Heratchenko. We see that this is a rare case of consensus between representatives of different factions who worked on the commission, and we should listen to this initiative. I'll remind you what this bill is about. He speaks of a very simple thing when protecting the President of Ukraine or other heads of state, it should not interfere with the normal life of the country and the normal work of journalists. Why did this initiative come about? I remind you, there have been several violent cases where journalists have been hindered by the protection of the President or other officials. There was a story with a TV channel correspondent, Sergey Androchek, against whom the President's protection applied force. We will recall history when not only do we cover up half the city for the President or other leaders of the state, but journalists are directly banned from their duties, from filming the President’s movement. We remember a completely anecdotal history when President Viktor Yanukovic’s protection in Strasbourg prevented President Rompei from going to the bathroom of the President of the European Parliament. I think this is one of the reasons why the Ukrainian authorities do not believe that this wall is emerging between the leaders of the state and between the simple, simple mortals. Indeed, there are things that need to be worked out in the bill, so that we don't balance the bill with the new Information Act, where there are still very strong safeguards for journalists. In all of this, I think that the very fact that the temporary commission of inquiry, which was studying to prevent journalists from doing their work, has drawn attention to this problem, and all the members of this commission, regardless of their faction, have become co-authors of this bill, is a very serious signal to our room. With respect to this work, I think it's worth supporting this bill as a basis. That's how our faction will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u96	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u97	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that, if we don't write today's legislation authorizing journalists, or Ukrainian national deputies, these laws are not actually being implemented. What should be said when Ukrainian national deputies do not pass through on Independence Day! What are you talking about?Oh, my God! And who? "Bercutt" and a company led by Mogilov, which I think will wait for the court as well as the entire regime of this president. That's why you have to write if you don't understand. And I see that it's not clear to some people today that they have to raise their voices. Because you don't understand, I'm explaining to you that you don't use force against journalists and, I mean, those people behind you. For you to be with us, Mr. Dry, for you to know, you should never have allowed, even to think, Mr. Dry, I repeat, that you have the right to a replica! To defend your disgraceful authority! So it's the right thing to do not use force against a journalist. Despite the fact that the criminal responsibility of Article 171 has been established "for obstructing legal activity". But there is a pattern of crime among those who did not miss MPs, for neither could they interfere with legitimate activities, and journalists. Thus, this clarification is made that it is not possible to warn journalists within an hour that they should come to the cemetery of Shevchenk, in an hour, into the frost! What are you doing? Surrender, guards, no one will steal your President!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Caplienne. And then Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u99	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The parliamentary group "For the Future Reforms" has always consistently advocated strengthening legislative guarantees of freedom of speech in Ukraine. If it is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, let us do our utmost to ensure that these freedoms are maintained in real life. In fact, since 1999, we have seen cases in the territory of our country where journalists have suffered, even in situations where they have been accredited to the authorities of the State in carrying out certain measures. This bill does not bring serious legislative pressure precisely because it is addressed in article 171 of the Criminal Code. But the very proposal to make further changes to part four or fifth of the article on increasing responsibility for obstructing journalists ’ activities is considered correct. We will vote for her in the first reading and in general. We're for freedom of speech in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u100	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, if the Ukrainian national deputy has any problems with logic or reasoning or head, there is no need to demonstrate its black palate throughout the hall. Your head is sore from your silent screams and your roar. And to vote for those bills that you seem to be agitating here, you don't want to vote for because you don't respect the hall. You don't respect Ukrainian national MPs. If you're deaf from birth, go to the lore, they'll give you help.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that the day is ending, everyone here is electrified, and I would ask everyone to maintain basic ethics. We have completed our consideration of the matter. Dear colleagues, I have such an offer that matches the committee's proposal to adopt a bill as a basis, considering it is necessary. But speaking of our colleagues who are hot as the authors advocate this bill, I would ask you to look at the holiday, read a little bit. I mean, legislative acts when you make illiterate proposals. By the way, you're setting up a president who's going to have to veto us, and after the veto, we're going to show our love for journalists again. I realize that before the election, they are ready to be strangled in their arms. But let's make decisions that are literate from an elementary point of view, from a legislative point of view. And these are all your screams, noises, and howlings that don't work. So I suggest you take this as a basis and seriously elaborate on those observations and recommendations that take place in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal for adoption as the basis of the draft law. Please vote. Registration number 8667. [[17:28:08]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions will be on their way. Please, please, come on. Otherwise, there'll be so many mutual accusations, we'll take it as a basis, we'll go back, we'll work on it, and then we'll make the final decision. Well, we work to humiliate each other. They're already on that track. So I'm voting on a motion to return to the subject. [[17:29:02]] For 128. Unfortunately, it's not supported. Okay, factions, please. Region Party 2, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 59, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 26, communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-factional – 3. Yes, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the exercise of supervisory powers by the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio, the proposal to consider the issue of reduced procedures. [[Registration number 8667]] Please vote. [[17:29:56]] For 217 Decision taken. The reporter is Irina Heratchenko. The reporter is Andrew Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u103	Dear colleagues! I'll speak as calmly as possible so that no one has a headache, ears, or anything else. But still, let's hear it from each other. I want to say that the bill that I'm about to present is also the bill of a group of members of the various factions who worked on the Interim Investigation Commission to investigate the facts of censorship and the pressure on journalists. And we really wanted the work of our commission to be done through real legislation that would help and improve the work of journalists. And it's just a shame that the authorities, which speak so much about the protection of journalists, are creating some kind of counseling and organ special to the President of Ukraine, are actually not making any gestures today, on a media day like this, to support journalists. Similarly, at the TSC meeting we considered specific complaints from the media. In particular, the Organisation "Independent Association of Broadcasters on Illegal Channel Checks, conducted by representatives of the National Council on Television and Radio. And we believe that today we need to standardize the exercise of supervisory powers by the Nacrad, which very often freely interprets Ukrainian legislation and uses its powers to simply by its own checks, often beyond the law, to push television channels. It is not uncommon for the Nacrad to simply ignore the requirements of the legislation on restraint and therefore there are many complaints in this direction. So in fact, my colleagues and I have drafted a bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws regarding the exercise of supervisory powers by the Ukrainian National Television and Radio Society in order to normalize its activities and not to use Nakrad's function of pressurizing the media because of these tests that are not normalized. We propose to include the National Council in the list of bodies to which it extends.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u104	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u105	We propose to include the Nakrad in the list of bodies to which the Act on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity extends. And we were helped to draft this bill by experts in the field of electronic media. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u106	Thank you. Andrew Shevchenko of the committee has his word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u107	Colleagues, the Committee on Freedom of Speech proposes to support this bill, to vote on it. Which was a key argument for us. This bill is another work of the Temporary Investigation Commission, which has studied the facts of the obstacles to journalists in their work. Again, this is one of the rare cases of consensus when representatives of the various political factions who worked on the commission studied the issue and joined in registering this legislative initiative. What were some of the doubts that we were also paying attention to? As you know, this bill proposes to establish the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting into the scope of the Act on Basic Principles of State Oversight, Control in the Field of Economic Activity. In principle, this law is primarily based on the executive branch. As we know, the National Council for Television and Radio is a special body that is not part of the executive system, and there were certain doubts that were raised during the discussion of this bill. However, as evidenced by practice, the National Council in its work is largely governed by the requirements of the law, rather than by the requirements of the law, but by the regulations of the directive on the order in which radio organizations and software providers are tested. As a result, the committee concluded that the bill should be supported by a vote on the basis. And those doubts that I just mentioned are worth going back to in preparing the bill for the second reading. On behalf of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, I offer my support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u108	Thank you. Shall we vote, Your Honor? Please sign up. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Andrew Shevchenko, then Vladimir Karpuk. He's refusing? I can't see, they'll show, they'll signal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u109	Colleagues, I'm just going to add a little bit to this, representing the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko-Paternal Block, and I'm going to say that the faction is going to support this bill. As part of the TSK led by Irina Heratschenko, our colleagues Stephen Krupil, Olena Kondratjuk, were working, and we often talked about that we now have the National Council on Television and Broadcasting as a, you know, a kingdom that lives by itself. One example of the screamers is a story that divides the frequency into digital speech. The competition was held by the National Broadcasting Board last August. I'm going to remind you that digital frequency licenses have actually been distributed. These are companies that will be able to work from 2015. Without these licenses, you can't work. Thus, so far the criteria under which the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting has distributed are completely unclear. It is not clear how this competition took place, some distinct nuances of the procedure. We know that at the time we didn't get licenses from such powerful regional speakers as the Black Sea Broadcasting Company in Crimea, like the flat-one television company, the TV-4 television company in Ternopol, the Černovci television company. Instead, she obtained a digital language license from a newly created Bank TV company founded by the National Bank of Ukraine. I think all of these situations oblige us once again to raise the profile of transparency and openness in the work of the National Council on Television and Radio. Our faction will vote in favour of this work of Irina Heratschenko's TSK.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u110	Vladimir Karpuk. Ruslan Knazevich, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u111	Yeah, yeah. Please give it to Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u112	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u113	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Well, it's a unique phenomenon, it's only possible for Ukraine to be present when the constitutional body can act in an unconstitutional way. Because you know that there is an article in the Constitution that says that all public authorities can only act in the way that the law provides. And we don't. According to Yuri Anatoliyovich, article 19 of the Constitution, and it turns out that there are no legislative mandates for the constitutional body. This means that he must act in an unconstitutional way outside the law. Of course, he will act in his own way and can act. Finally, it is the subjective will of those who sit on a particular National Council. Today, some tomorrow, others tomorrow, another third. It's about the fact that, you know, anxiety is caused by what has just been said by both the author of the bill and the representative of the committee. Imagine, this is about the National Council, which we so sincerely gave a series of extraordinary powers during the election campaign. And now it's the regulator who's going to exercise special powers over all the media, actually allowing or not allowing them to speak. Because in that case, if they find it appropriate to stop the authorization or broadcast, let's say they pause for a certain period of time, according to the law, they are given such powers. And how will this body then exercise its authority if, even in such nuances, it now allows itself to act, with its eyes closed to the Constitution? Therefore, we will need to follow again, perhaps even before the electoral campaign begins, back to the authority of this body and very carefully, not only in the realm under consideration today, but also in a complex way, so that it does not become a surprise for us during the electoral campaign, when the Nacrad becomes a punitive sword for those media who allow themselves to have an independent view, to be independent, objective, and, God forbid, such as whose position, for a period of time, would coincide with the opposition political forces. This is a disgrace to Ukraine, which must be stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I'll bet you a vote. Now we'll see about the results of the vote, whether it's finished or not. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the exercise of supervisory powers by the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. [[Registration number 8667]] Please vote, please. [[17:39:11]] For 101 The decision is not taken. They completed their consideration of the matter. The factions, please. The region's party is zero, "BUT" is "Batkashtina" is 59, "Our Ukraine is National Self-Defense" is 20, communists are zero, the People's Party is zero, "Reforms for the Future" is 19, non-factional is three. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u115	Dear colleagues. Please. We've heard, we've heard. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we need to consider three questions in the re-reading mode. I would ask that we quickly follow them and make a final decision, namely, this bill amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. [[on improving the housing management system and addressing individual issues in the area of services]] The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Valerius Bondik, co-rapporteur, head of the committee of Sergei Maybeard. Suggestion: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I would like to vote for that. [[17:40:26]] For 209 Decision taken. Please, Valery Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, the honourable presidency, the purpose of the bill is to regulate and, as it were, provide other services, quality services to other enterprises that are able to provide quality services in the residential sector. Consumers now do not have sufficient mechanisms to allow themselves to identify the performers of these services. But the provision and maintenance of a multi-family housing fund in good technical condition, quality maintenance of buildings and accommodating areas need to be improved and the development of a multi-house management system. And this bill will contribute to the implementation of the basics and avoid monopolies in housing services. So consumers, you and I, have to be defined and have the same levels as market economy requires, the same conditions for getting quality services. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u117	Thank you. Sergey Fedotovich Maybeard, head of the Committee on Construction, Urban, Housing and Regional Policy. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u118	Respectable People's Deputies, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy considered the bill at its meeting on 11 January 2012. The Chief Research and Expert Office, in its response: On 14 December last year, notes that a draft of the first reading review may be adopted on the basis of the following comments and proposals in preparation for consideration on second reading, in particular on the identification of a specific list of services for home management, the addition of the bill to the clear content of the contract for the provision of multi-housing services, the need to define requirements for the manager. The Ministry of Regional Development of the Construction and Housing of Ukraine, by letter dated 15 December last year, recommends the adoption of the bill as a basis for first reading and further refinement, taking into account the comments made. Following its consideration, the Committee decided to propose the adoption of Bill No. 8391 as a basis and to finalize it on second reading, taking into account the comments and proposals made by legislative actors. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no objection to that. This is a rereading of the first reading. Talk about it, huh? Please sign up. Names of the national deputies. Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this bill as a basis. We think this bill is perfectly correct, it's in principle on time. And that list of services and, in general, the new definitions that are being introduced on the ground that have only one acronym to date -- OSBB, we see that these are positive changes. Among the calls of the bill, we see that there will really be an annual costing at the expense of the state and local budgets for the renovation of these apartment buildings. Indeed, this problem exists today. But there's a negative side. It can be referred to as a possible abuse when defining an institution that will be called a manager. I'll remind you that this bill allows you to choose two procedures for managing this house. The first procedure is the composition of OSBB, which we know to this day according to the right decision. And the second is the appointment of the manager on the competition floor. This is the only mistake of this bill, in our opinion. But it can be corrected for second reading. Therefore, the MPs will support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u121	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Vladimir Bondarenko will perform. We continue the evening session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u122	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, law is needed and law must be passed. But there are some serious comments. And if those comments that have been made by the Committee can be taken into account in the procedure for preparing for second reading, that is, one principle comment that we do not take into account now, we will simply not vote even on first reading. The point is that it is necessary and possible to vote on the first reading on one condition if we exclude the End Position. Because the price of the question doesn't go into 10 billion bracelets, I repeat, the price of the question doesn't even go into 10 billion bracelets. Where are we going to raise that money? Therefore, I repeat, in order to have a positive vote on first reading, please vote on this version of the law without the “Final Regulations” on first reading. And the proposal and proposals of the profile committee can be taken into account in the preparatory process for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u123	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u124	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, any initiative in the area of housing-communal agriculture could be supported, but in my opinion the order of action should be determined from the most complex or basic positions to the smaller ones. Today this bill solves the issue of a steward there, some problems of the house management system. But let's think about whether the basic issues that we're dealing with are, in particular, the question of the integrity of a part of the network. About a third of the networks in the city of Kiev and in every other city are obviously homeless, that is, nobody’s. So any accident on these networks, whether the manager is there or not, is going to be looking at those who provide this service as an extra job that has to be paid double. Without removing impertinence, we can't move on. The other one. The tariff policy, we created a special body under my bill, here was voted, but until now it has not started its activities and NCRE continues to regulate tariff policies in the housing and utility system. Today, we cannot tolerate confusion in tariff policy when it is not clear who or how it is. Count. Is the bill settled today? No, it's not. It's idiotic, I'm sorry, it's a calculated schematic in the housing area, in the number of residents, not in the water consumed, in the heat consumed, and so on. In Kiev, for example, they came up with a scheme that calculates gigacalories, not cubic meters of water, but gigacalories, and so on. So, in my opinion, such an initiative, it could have been supported, but not as a basic one, but rather as housing and utilities from basic positions, it's the Ministry that should have done it, and, if it wanted, the current government, and it's not doing it, and the managers will have to do nothing. Therefore, this bill is hardly to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt a bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert management agrees with the committee's proposal. I'm betting on voting a proposal that's here and supported by the government to put the adoption vote on the basis of the deletion of the Final Provisions, except for the position where the law is being enacted. Is that right? So I'm voting on this motion, please vote. That's what the proposal sounded like. [[17:49:18]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding applicants for the principle of State registration of termination of activities and natural persons of entrepreneurs is under review. The rapporteur is the national deputy of the National Valérie. And the co-reporter is a member of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Oleg Tishchenko. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:50.]] For 231 Decision taken. Please, Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The aim of the bill is to significantly facilitate the process of putting an end to the entrepreneurial activities of entrepreneurs. [[No. 9048]] In particular, it is proposed to introduce an application for termination of the activities of the natural persons of the enterprise. We all know how complex and burdensome we have the process of putting an end to entrepreneurial physics. Businesspersons. It includes not only a statement by entrepreneurs but also a publication, a printed edition, and a collection of numerous documents, and a long wait for a reply after the application is made to the registrar. It happens that the process is delayed for months. As you know, in May of this year, we passed the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to simplify the procedures for the cessation of legal persons and the entrepreneurial activities of the natural persons involved in their decision. But this law, unfortunately, does not make significant changes in the process of putting an end to the entrepreneurial activity of the natural persons who are entrepreneurs. The procedure remained complex and multistage. You realize, of course, that simplifying the process of putting an end to entrepreneurship is a vital problem, especially for small businesses who have decided to shut down their business and seek employment or register as unemployed. And you know that they're getting more and more, those whose business has stopped bringing even very modest income, and they're forced to stop entrepreneurship? What is specifically provided for in the bill? The project proposes to significantly facilitate the process of putting an end to entrepreneurial activities for entrepreneurs and to reduce the terms of such a procedure to one day. Once the bill has been passed, the entrepreneur will only be able to report to the registrar that the business activity has ceased and that such termination will be registered immediately. On what basis is the ideology of the proposed changes based? On the fact that the physical person who stops his activity does not disappear anywhere, unlike the case of the liquidation of a legal person. The physical person continues to be responsible for his debts after the end of his entrepreneurial activities. And the extent of her responsibility does not change in any way. That's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u127	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u128	In particular, the payment of taxes and taxes to congregations. The adoption of the bill will not only make it so much easier to stop the entrepreneurial activity of physics. Businesspeople, but also allowing Ukraine to improve its position in world ratings with ease of doing business, will increase Ukraine's investment. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u129	Thank you. Oleg Ivanovich Tishchenko, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u130	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 15 November 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the application principle of State registration for the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons who are entrepreneurs, which has been developed and submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Kingdom. [[Registration number 9048]] The purpose of the bill is to significantly facilitate the procedures that are applied to the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of the natural persons who are entrepreneurs. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 2.12.2011, to the bill, found that, as a result of the first reading, the draft law of Ukraine could be adopted as a basis. After considering and discussing the bill, members of the committee noted that the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law would significantly facilitate the process of putting an end to entrepreneurial activities by individuals who are entrepreneurs and would contribute to Ukraine's increased investment attractiveness. In the light of the foregoing, the members of the committee decided to amend some of the laws of Ukraine on the application principle of State registration for the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons entrepreneurs to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to propose to accept it as a basis. The committee is asking for the support of this bill. We also considered the bill in faction, and the faction concluded that it should also be supported. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u131	Yes, dear colleagues, sign up for the discussion. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u132	Please give the word to the protector of a small enterprise from the oligarchs, Oleg Lašek.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u133	Thank you, Reverend Volodymyr Georgiyovich! When Oleg Láska’s Radical Party comes to power, Vladimir Karpuk will be Ukraine’s Health Minister. () [[B in m in s a l in]] And the Ukrainians will receive free medical care, not as in today’s government, if, God forbid, they are sick, they have to sell the house, they have to give everything they need to get medical care. Turning to the subject of our bill on the cessation of entrepreneurship, small entrepreneurs. Dear colleagues, here you are looking at a bill to simplify the termination procedure. I'll tell you how to stop small businesses in Kiev. Yesterday at 5 a.m., 150 Berkuts came to the market for youth, beat poor women, men and took their property. You're laughing. I know what you're laughing at, you jerks. You have millions in accounts, millions in accounts, and people who were driven out of factories and factories 20 years ago, short-circuited, closed schools with nothing to eat for, which is the last way to earn and feed their child. They protect their property at 5 a.m. You can laugh because you're not in their place, because you don't know what it is to make a penny, what it is to roll by in the morning, stand on a 30-degree ice cream to make 20 bucks to bring home the boss, the hungry, cold kids a penny, a piece of bread without butter! And you're laughing! Who are you laughing at? You're laughing at the people. So stop laughing, and you have to eliminate all of the permissive procedures so that small and medium-sized businesses have the opportunity to do business peacefully, without rackets, without taxes, and to work, to earn a living. And don't laugh at people!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u134	Gennady Zdirko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, the MP's "Reform for the Future" group is consistent in its actions, and will support Bill 9048 as one that is right and relevant in time. The bill introduces changes aimed at greatly simplifying the process of termination of a natural person, an enterprise. At present, this process takes more than six months in the best possible way, and the project brings this procedure to an entrepreneur's full registration card and registration and business termination. The very process of registering the company’s termination in such a case is reduced to one day, which is especially relevant now for small entrepreneurs when their business stops making any small income. In addition, we all know and understand that rapid stoppage registration is necessary for job creation and job search. Today, the process of registering business termination is a very long process, starting with the submission of applications, the publication of reports, the process of collecting numerical information from various bodies, possible checks by the supervisory authorities, and the submission of collected documents to the holder. Once again, many countries of the world have long given up such a notion as "the natural person of the entrepreneur." Entrepreneurship can be done by any natural person, especially to pay taxes. Why can't we take a step in front of our entrepreneurs and make the conditions more or less attractive? Moreover, it will indeed improve Ukraine's rating regarding the introduction of business. So the MP's "Forthcoming Reforms" will certainly support Bill 9048 and we propose to support this bill as very and very appropriate and necessary for our entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the application principle of State registration for the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons. [[Registration number 9048]] [[18:00:11]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please: Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 36, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 9, Communists – 22, "The People's Party" – 4, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-fractional – 2. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] [[8282]] Under the reduced procedure, the proposal is to consider the issue. Please vote. [[18:00:58]] For 214 Decision taken. Rapporteur, Ukrainian National Deputy, Yulia Kovalevska, co-reporter, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Katerina Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u137	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Family Code and the basics of Ukraine’s health legislation, which aim to protect children’s rights by introducing restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies. Reproductive medicine has gained recognition in the world and in Ukraine, and 2011 was marked by the birth of the first such child in Ukraine after the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies. Without overdoing it, such medical technologies can make many families happy who cannot have children in the state of health of one of the spouses. But any interference with natural processes should be balanced. A child born in our country after an embryo donation procedure in 66 years of age asked whether this elderly person would be able to care for the baby, to raise it, and a surrogate motherhood programme for foreign citizens required resolving such issues at the legislative level. It should be noted that in many parts of the world the use of surrogate motherhood is prohibited by law. The reasons are moral, religious and other. Let me remind you of another covert case. By means of a legal ban on the use of surrogate motherhood, French citizens tried to smuggle out two children born to them in Ukraine as a surrogate mother. The state of France did not recognize these children, nor did they provide any documents to legalize them. And we have several cases like this in Ukraine. Similar situations have a negative impact on the image of Ukraine in the world, demeaning the merits of reproductive medicine in general, and especially the suffering of children. In recent times, Ukraine has been involved in such scandalous cases involving violations of children’s rights. That is why we consider it appropriate to settle this issue. I also want to stop at establishing a borderline age for women to whom these auxiliary technologies can be applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u138	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u139	According to WHO, the reproductive age of women is between 15 and 49 years, and the most optimal period is between 20 and 35 years. The aim of the age restriction is primarily to care for the health of the woman and the birth of a healthy child. So, dear colleagues, please support our bill in the first reading, and we'll take all the remarks into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u140	Katerina Lukjanova, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u141	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee at its meeting on December 22, 2011, reviewed the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine submitted by the Lukyanov and Kovalevsk People’s Deputies. [[concerning the restriction of the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] [[Registration number 8282]] The purpose of the bill is to protect children's rights through legislative restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies, including in the use of these technologies by foreign citizens. The bill does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Issues concluded that the proposed bill had no impact on the budget. The main scientific and expert office concluded that the first reading of the bill could be adopted as a basis. Members of the committee supported the legislative initiative of the National Deputies, since according to the Declaration on the Rights of the Child, the child needs special protection and care as a result of physical and mental maturity, including legal protection both before and after birth. The proposed restrictions will contribute to the protection of children, including by allowing them to avoid problems when registered in the home of biological parents. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft in the first reading and to adopt it as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up if you need to. Sergey Mishchenko, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherland." [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergei Mishchenko. You don't? So it's Vladimir Kaplienko then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, well, I'll start my speech on behalf of the parliamentary group next. We introduced twice, even three, a comprehensive surrogate motherhood or auxiliary motherhood Act, which had 46 articles. He was not accepted in the hall, but he fully regulated the issue by amending the six laws of Ukraine, including the Family Code. The second question. To deal with this issue today, we cannot limit ourselves to the Family Code. We need to adopt two key laws that need to be regulated – this is the Law on Auxiliary Reproductive Technologies, the so-called DDR Act and the Law on Support for Auxiliary Motherhood. If you turn to the MOH and do not act wickedly, you will see that the MOH has its own authority on the matter. Question three. The surrogate motherhood, which is affected by the four amendments introduced to the Family Code, should first of all regulate the benefit of the recipients as indicated here, then a foreign person or anyone else should, these rules should protect the rights of those surrogate auxiliary mothers who give their belly to another. That's where they're bringing it. It doesn't have that here. Third. The main problem of the DDR in Ukraine is not what is regulated by this law, but the quality of services provided and the percentage result that is not available in Ukraine, even under state support. Next question. In no way is the issue of health restrictions taken into account: in what way? We regulate the age censor, we regulate foreign or non-foreign origins, but what next? Next. See, today all these issues about DRT are regulated by the regulations of the MOH itself, as they are reflected here. And the last. Why can only foreign citizens have the right to receive these services? And the main thing is why there is no reference to that law at all today. So there's a reference to a law that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u144	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u145	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In our view, it is neither necessary nor impossible to pass such a law in this session hall. We won't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u146	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u147	Vladimir Karpuk. In fact, we're looking at quite a lot of legislative stuff, very thin things, maybe on a moral level. And you can agree with that part of the law, where it's about limitations, let's say, according to age. We have an example of a woman being fertilized for over 60-64 years, it seems, and how many questions have arisen, how can she raise such a child? There's experiments of their own, 80 years they've been doing. But where legislation is clearly established, there are no such situations in other countries. This is the part where I support the bill. But as for a previous advocate who thinks about reforms for Ukraine's future and for the law in question, which I strongly disagree with, what our legislation is trying to introduce is either a separate law or a position of disposition into the legislation on assisted or surrogate motherhood. And if you look closely at these dispositions or those legislative acts, there's an attempt to make Ukraine a country where foreigners will use our women for surrogate motherhood, and social protection, and hospitals, and so on. So in this part of the proposal, we disagree. On the committee, really, several times we've looked at these laws in quite detail, with experts involved, and in this part we don't support it. So I'd like to propose to correct, well, we've been looking at it once before, it's a re-examination of the first review, and we're going to work out this legislative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u148	Thank you. Please, Bondarenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u149	Bondarenko, Timoshenko Street. Well, when I look at the number of people in this room, it's like the main mass has gone into not the auxiliary reproductive technology, but the basic technology. But I would also like to say that I had to study very thoroughly the activities of one of the Fedor Dahn clinics. And I'll tell you that the happy eyes of those women who became mothers there because of these technologies make us see this problem as a very acute social problem. There's one thing I care about in this law. That we limit everything to a very harsh age for a woman who can become a mother. Well, let's look at the average age of women today, the age they live to. And what they can raise a child there to about 25 years of age gives hope to other women. So I'd like to make an offer to deal with older women's issues through a special medical commission, perhaps at the Institute of Obstetrics and Genicology, which will enable others to become mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m1.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have completed our consideration of the matter. I'd just like to stay out of analogy. Or it may seem that there are people in the session room who can't do anything, no technology. And this is going to be wrong. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, the discussion is concluded. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] [[Registration number 8282]] Please vote. [[18:12:10]] For 264 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered all the issues that were scheduled for Tuesday, February 21. I thank you for your work. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work from 10:00 a.m. to Tuesday, February 22, Wednesday, I apologize, on Wednesday, February 22.
