ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:01:34]] There are 418 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council will be open. Let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 21st plenary meetings this year. We discussed 23 issues of the agenda with you yesterday, as a result of their consideration: two laws were passed, 15 bills were adopted on a basis, one bill was returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, and five bills were rejected. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please, there's a sign, Extreme. Get ready, Samuelnka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u2	National Deputy Kranyy, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u3	Please, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Deputy Sas, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." First. The Timoshenko-Paternal bloc believes that the topic of political corruption in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not exhausted. What is more, the question has a broad resonance. Society rightly requires a comprehensive answer to questions related to bribery of deputies and, as a result, a distortion of the will of the people. So the faction initiates the creation of a commission of inquiry on these issues. The other one. Once again, I draw the attention of the Head and most of the Supreme Council to the fact that there is a cynical violation of the requirements of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 3 and 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, article 7 of the Prevention and Anti-Corruption Act, in view of the fact that a number of national deputies continue to reconcile the positions of national deputies with those of the executive branch. In particular, I recall that the national deputy Vladislav Kaskov, appointed as President of the State Investment Agency and the administration of Ukraine's national projects, did not submit an application for credentials in December 2010. Alexander Pecklesenko, by Presidential Decree of 02.11.2011, did not apply for office as head of the Zaporez district government. Leluk Aleksei Volodymyrovich was appointed on December 28, 2010 as the State Agency for the Reserve of Ukraine. I filed an application. The Committee considered that the Supreme Council was delaying its consideration of the matter. There's about 10 people left. 10 deputies who fit positions. Today, honourable national deputies, the question of the appointment of the head of the National Court of Auditors is not settled. For over nine months now, there are no first deputy, no three controllers. Paralyzing work on government resources control. Therefore, the honourable presiding, honourable majority, we demand the enforcement, enforcement of Ukraine's laws, the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine, so only in this case can the Supreme Council require the enforcement of the laws of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u5	Yuri Sameilenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Maxim Lutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u7	Lutsky? Maxim Lutsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to inform you about the events that are taking place around the new edition of the Higher Education Act. You know, for the last six years, there's been work on drafting a new bill that's very necessary today to Ukraine, but because of one or the other circumstances, we can't accept it, because unfortunately, it's also acquired some kind of political component. We're seeing constant protests like students or social organizations that are constantly making demands. As soon as we comply with these requirements, new requirements arise. This process, I think, is kind of a constant process, and it doesn't have any completion. But we need to make it clear that we need to meet European standards today. We joined the Bologna Process, and we have to say clearly today what is a university, what is an academy, what is a college, what is a professional college. We need to identify ourselves with educational and professional levels, which are baccalaureate, master, preserve and protect vocational and technical education, protect the level of junior specialist as a national feature. Maybe she'll join us later, but for today we have to keep it. We need to preserve the doctorate of science as a national feature, not just a doctor of philosophy. At this point in time, this is essential. Similarly, the Higher Education Act should aim at improving the quality of education in Ukraine and increasing the autonomy of universities. [[new editor]] And in this direction very many steps have been taken. Taking into account the events that are constantly taking place around the new edition of the Higher Education Act, I would like to say thank you very much to Prime Minister Mikolia Janovich Azarov for paying attention to such an important problem in our country and taking personal control of the working group, where all those who spoke of their views not being taken into account and their proposals were invited. Two weeks ago, a meeting was held with the Prime Minister at the Cabinet of Ministers Club, where he was able to participate completely, and again yesterday under the leadership of Mikola Janović Azarov, the head of the working group, the Rector of the National Technical University of Kiev Politechnics, Mikhailo Zgurowski reported. What am I trying to say? That draft law that the working group is working on is progressive, it's one that can be adapted. But much of it does not change the Higher Education Law, namely, the Laws. to the Customs, Tax and other Bills, the Budget Code of Ukraine. That is why today is the Prime Minister's mission: for two weeks under the chairmanship, again, Mikhail Zacharovich Zgurowski, together with the Ministry of Education, Science and all other interested persons, to work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u9	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u10	A bill in two weeks to be finalized, submitted to the Supreme Council and by the end of the session to adopt the law, the new Higher Education Act. A new edition of the Higher Education Act, so that the new year 2012 will start with a new law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u11	A hamster, a party of regions. Get ready for Samilak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u12	Please give the floor to Olenik Vladimir Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u13	Please, Vladimir Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe gave a high appreciation to the initiative of the President of Ukraine on the new edition of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. The Bible’s Viewpoint The Assembly called on the Ukrainian Parliament to adopt this law as quickly as possible because it meets European standards by 99 percent. Regrettably, the majority of the opposition responded in a way that was not proper, voted against the first reading of the law. In short, Europe is not a decree. But "against" is a vote in favour, because it's a vote in favour of preserving the current Criminal Procedure Code, it's a vote in favour of destroying Ukraine's European path, it's a vote in favour of saving torture and torture in criminal trials, it's a vote in favour of baseless arrests, overcrowded by the SS, in which people sleep in turn, it's a vote in favour of sentences that people wait for 5-6 years. The Ukrainian society should know what they are voting for and what others are not voting for. They vote in favour of preserving the steel model of the Criminal Procedure Code. Should this law be improved? Of course, in the second reading, we will consider all reasonable suggestions that would not undermine the European model of this law. At the same time, this law does not solve all problems. The President addresses this issue systematically, and it is necessary to reorganize and reform criminal justice bodies, and we need to adopt the Law on Lawyers, Prosecutor's Office, and the police. Finally, Europe highly appreciated and supported the President's initiative to create a Constitutional Assembly, as it is necessary to make substantial changes to the Constitution in order to strengthen the independence of the court. In this respect, we must unite our efforts and show our voters that we are working in their interests, that we are able to rise above political ambitions, unite and adopt a Criminal Procedure Code that meets European standards. And the people can see everything, they'll appreciate everything, and they'll give an evaluation in their own time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u15	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Prepare the Wooden One.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, our constituents! There is no secret that the state of education in rural school requires a fundamental decision by both the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll give you a few facts: over the years of independence, there are 9,000 preschools, and a half a thousand general education schools. And it was not by chance that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine offered to hold parliamentary hearings on March 14th on Education in Rural Area: Crisis Trends, Ways to Overcome It. But I would like to say that without waiting, we need to do everything we can now to stop these negative trends. Because in a bunch of economic and social problems, almost all of this leads to the extinction of the village, the outflow of people. We need to take urgent measures. In our view, we need to adopt the law next week. [[8622]] It's an anti-crisis complex educational law. It envisions the suspension of liquidation, the reorganization of educational institutions, only by decision of the community and the congregations. The way it's done in Finland. To refer to the category of teachers and librarians, psychologists, social educators, organizers, logos, at least one job salary each year. And of course, we must adopt the Law on the Retirement Care of Educators. I would like to remind you that it is we who have proposed to adopt this bill, which provides for retirement -- 80 percent plus one percent per year. The country’s medics, the educated, await this law. And we also need to resuscitate those laws that existed in Soviet times: free heating, housing, lighting. Because nobody's working at the FAP, the district hospital, the district hospital, and the school. We offer compulsory free nutrition for first- or fourth-class students and 15-20 percent for office management. We have given the Supreme Council of Ukraine a number of drafts under the auspices of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka, as well as other national deputies from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. They're anti-crisis, they need to be taken immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u17	Wooden, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Get ready for the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u18	Dear Ukrainians! Dear National Deputies! On February 17, this year, in the family village of Terebovljana, the envy of the Ternopil region was celebrated on the 120th anniversary of the birth of the spiritual leader of the Ukrainian nation and statesman, Patriarch Joseph Blind. In his will, Patriarch Joseph wrote: “In my youth, I was a voluntary prisoner of Christ because I was born and raised in the Ukrainian Christian farmer’s deeply believing family. Parents, the Christian family is the foundation of a healthy society of the nation." From the first day of his presence on the throne of the prince of the church, the blind man bore a courageous and patient nose. The Bolshevik regime was afraid of Metropolitanism. On April 11, 1945, the patriarch was arrested and tried four times — 1946, 1953, 1957, and 1959. The fact that these cases were fabricated criminal cases were political repressions today is a fact legally confirmed. So on June 3, 1991, the prosecution of Kiev decided to rehabilitate Blind Joseph Ivanovich. On September 11, 1991, the Criminal College of the Supreme Court of Ukraine adopted the approval of the rehabilitation of the leaders of the UCC as groundlessly condemned, and the repression of them was applied to the leadership of the UCC for political reasons. The 18 - year imprisonment of the patriarchs went through secret courts, endless interrogations, moral and physical abuse, torture, and starvation. The regime then did everything to break down, destroy the patriarch. The Bolshevik-Encavedic methods for the destruction of high moral people have taken one in today's ruling regime, which is doing everything to destroy the leader of the opposition and the "Fatherland" party, Julius Timoshenko and other political prisoners. In 1962 one of the cardinals gave such an assessment of the merits of our Metropolitan and Confessor. He spent 18 years in prison for 40 years of his priesthood. In the long history of the church there are few, if any, such confessionals and martyrs for the faith they have endured for so long. And we pray today for the Archbishop of the Blind, one of the greatest confessors of faith from the beginning of Christianity to this day. By the 120th anniversary of the birth of Patriarch Blind, our faction -- "BUT" -- was released with Professor Volodymyr Sergiyczuk, for the first time in which documents of Soviet intelligence from 1939-1987 were published, which recorded pages of the life and activities of Patriarch Joseph Blind -- the head of the UCC. Today, in an independent Ukraine, we must know and respect our history and the outstanding people who made it. Patriarch Joseph the Blind is a great fighter for the Christ.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u19	Oleg Lazko. Prepare Yagofer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow citizens, a particularly topical issue which has been the issue of "cushion" in Parliament over the past few months, is the issue of "cushion" in politics at all. This is a very shameful phenomenon when deputies who go through the list of one political force then run to another and serve the authorities and serve for money. But people are good, and where do they come from: do they fall from the sky, or are they just not from where they come from? No, it's not. Because "carts", the results of "carts" are not just those who buy them, but those who produce them. So I want to give you a good example of this, in the Winnitz region. Today, in the Winnitsk region, elections are held for the district council in the Lipovec region. There's three candidates. One candidate from power is a deputy governor, one candidate from the Radical Party, Anna Philonov, and one candidate from the so-called RCD, a committee of resistance to dictatorship. The former mayor of Winnici, Kachur Viktor Mikolaiovich, and the former mayor of Winnici, from the Code. He rides the villages, tells us that when he is elected a district council member, Timoshenko will be released from prison, in opposition and so on. But who is this opposition? I've got an extract from the ERPO. Pull it out. Nemiriv district center of the Party of the Regions Among the founders of the Nemirov district center of the Party of Regions Kalenić Volodymyr Petrovich, Dzubak Volodymyr Petrovich and Kachur Viktor Mikolaajovic, who is the founder of the Nemirov district centre, today he is from KOD, from BUTU, floating from opposition to the district council. One. Next. This representative of the opposition. I asked the law enforcement authorities to give me information about the Kachura. Did you? In 2002, he was called to criminal responsibility for closing a man in a basement and demanding $10,000. In 2002, he was criminalized for beatings. In 2010, he was sentenced to a bribe of 2 million dollars. The previous criminal cases were closed by the former deputy prosecutor of the Nemirovsky district of Doletsky, who received the apartment. And then we're wondering where the carcases come from. The person who is the founder of the Winnitzkin Regional Party is floating from BUTU, from the Code to the District Council. And then we ask, why in the Party of the Regions are 50 cartridges from the BUIT? That's where they come from! They're being sent to BUIT, they're becoming MPs. Then they cross over and serve the Party of the Regions. That's to the knowledge of Ukrainian citizens, where "carcases" come from. I'll be right with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u21	Yagoferov, BUT faction. Prepare
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Deputy Boluri. Please pass the word to Deputy Boluri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u23	Show me Yagoferov, please. Jagoferov, please show me. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u24	Hand it over to MP Boluri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u25	Thank you very much. The game of power continues. Dirty and dangerous game. Now around the medical examination of the leader of the "Fatherland" Party of Yulia Timoshenko. While the diagnosis has not yet been definitively established, Ukraine has already heard that it does not need stationary treatment, does not need surgery, or otherwise refuses to work in the colony. What nonsense! How you can work or refuse such a disease, with such back pains. We've already been able to give negative characteristics to Canadian medicine. On what grounds? Because they refused to accept the alternative of Ukrainian medical representatives who were part of the commission? This continues to deepen the isolation of Ukraine at the international level. What are we doing in Belarus? The government of Ukraine has been repeatedly warned by the European Union, international and inter-State organisations, about the need to comply with the rules of democracy and the rule of law. Ukraine has lost the opportunity to establish a normal relationship with Russia. They couldn't agree with the topic of gas. The result of the Kharkiv Treaties is also a complication of the opposition around the Black Sea fleet. Even now, or just now, Ukraine demands that Sevastopol return objects that are not used for direct purposes or tax purposes. How? Why after the signing of the agreements? Trade wars have entered another period. And Ukrainian cheese is just the beginning. The Ukrainian authorities are approached with demands and warnings by the entire civilized world community regarding the release of our country’s political prisoners, and specifically by Yulia Timoshenko. According to UN documents, the authority that judges for political beliefs is a criminal authority. Ukraine is on the verge of serious diplomatic isolation. Diplomatic isolation is financial. While Ukraine is largely integrated into the international economy, international business, international finance, the consequences are already sensitive and will continue to be extremely negative. Because it's about the country, it's about the people. And in order for Ukraine to get out of diplomatic isolation, it is necessary to take one step, to fulfil one single condition, promised, by the way, at high world levels and not once, to release the prisoners, to free Yuri Lucenk, to free Yulia Timoshenko. July is free!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u26	Pavlenko, faction of the People's Party. Behind him is Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u27	Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party. Please give the floor to my colleague, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u28	Please, Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u29	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! Even to this day, our nation’s vast territory remains radioactively polluted by the Chernobyl disaster, and the economy is not developing. This problem can only be solved through a system-wide software approach to land recovery, the creation of favourable conditions for investment and the implementation of entrepreneurial initiatives. We need to activate the work of greening the polluted areas, providing the population that lives on them with jobs and decent wages, clean food, and creating suitable pastures for livestock and hay production, and ensuring the introduction of mineral fertilizers and meliorants. It should be noted that about a third of the population assigned to the third and fourth zones of radioactive pollution are located in the Plains region. In view of what I have outlined, I propose to develop and implement a pilot project in the Plains region for the ecological recovery of the area affected by radioactive pollution, with adequate funding and strict control of the use of funds for this purpose. Next. On Thursday, this room is scheduled to consider a bill on the conditions of farming in the 11th, I stress, areas of Ukraine that have been exposed to radioactive pollution. The bill aims to create conditions for the restoration of radioactively contaminated areas and their return to normal economic activity, the creation of new jobs, the development of productive power and the restoration of productive and social infrastructure. And the main thing is to open the way for investment. This does not require any government budget bracelets, but it requires a sound mind and a removal of excessive prohibitions on the safe management of agriculture, bans that were only relevant in the early years after the crash at CHAES. The development of the territory is planned without reducing the demand for radiation safety of the population, without replacing zone boundaries, population status, and the status of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, based on scientific developments and an innovative model for economic development. That's why I'm addressing the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ravenna District State Administration with a proposal for the organization of targeted work and priority implementation in the area of economic rehabilitation of polluted areas for the social protection of the affected population. The proposed comprehensive approach to solving the problem will speed up the resolution of a number of painful and critical issues in the development of polluted areas. So I look forward to an urgent response from the government and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u30	Stepanenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Suhim Jaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u32	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the tragic events of the winter are once again drawing the attention of our society to the need to modernize social policy in the country. In an annual letter to the Supreme Council, President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine stressed separately the need to ensure the effectiveness of social organization and the purpose of social assistance. The implementation of this instruction is a moral obligation, both for all branches of government and for the political forces represented in Parliament. The President's call for cooperation is extremely urgent today. The fact is that destructive demagogism, populism, and politics are very expensive for our people. Despite all the poverty in Ukraine, it has become chronic. Remember, in 2001, we made a commitment to the UN by 2015 to reduce the number of poor people to 15 percent, instead of having a poverty rate of over 26. In addition, poverty in Ukraine is also impressive to the economically active population, the so - called poverty among the workers. Every six employees receive a minimum wage, and every other employee is not above the average. It's in industry. In the budget area, average wages are 25-30 percent less than industrial wages. And one more thing. Regrettably, today, as in yesterday’s monetary structure, the population is steadily falling and is barely 40 percent rather than the marginally critical 65. Instead, there is an increase in the weight of social assistance, the size of which because of a small wage, is clearly not enough to satisfy people. Today we can and should criticize the government for calculating social reforms, but, at the same time, we are simply obliged to maintain a course and fill in the legislative content of today’s government’s economic growth rate, the modernisation of basic sectors of the national economy, on the one hand, and the progressive introduction of a labour-intensive economy model, on the other hand. The figures may not be surprising, because they can't be different, but there's a real increase in GDP by 5, an increase in industrial output by 8, an increase in average wage by 18 percent, a reduction in wages by 20. So the course chosen by the government, the faithful and the solution to poverty problems, the modernization of the social sphere can and should lie in the fabric of production because of the overall strengthening of the economic potential of the state. And to the end. Fellows, remember if our presentations here often raise the issue of modernization of production, of increasing productivity of work from this rostrum and proposed bills. From 121 countries, Ukraine has 88 jobs worldwide. It's unacceptable. So from this rostrum, I call for cooperation from the faction of the Party of the Regions, for the introduction of bills that would fill the government's actual focus on modernization.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u34	Mybeard's handing over to Koleshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u35	Respectable voters! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the international community and Ukraine celebrated the International Day of Mother Language, which was proclaimed by UNESCO in 1999. Its main objective is to promote linguistic cultural diversity and multilingualism. This is very important for Ukraine, because we have more than 130 ethnic and indigenous peoples and our State is polycultural. More than 30 per cent of the population, more than 15 million people, belong to national and linguistic minorities. International Mother Language Day is an essential and necessary social cultural holiday. We must realize that our country's multilingualism and polyculturalism is our significant civilizational advantage to other nations around the world. Unfortunately, many Ukrainian political forces view this advantage, not as an asset, but as a threat to all state-building, and their approach to the language, cultural issue in Ukraine is undemocratic and has an impact on post-totalitarian myths. Yesterday, the Youth Regions held a round table for young people to celebrate their mother tongue. They spoke Armenian, Azerbaijani, Russian, Ukrainian. Everyone was called upon to love and respect their mother tongue because it was the mother tongue. And no one said "moscal," "hohole," "chamodane voxal-Russia," "occupier, get out!" Everyone was concerned about one thing: the purity of the mother tongue, both Ukrainian, both Russian, Azerbaijani, Armenian and all the native languages of the people who created it, is supported by our Ukrainian State. In our Parliament from this rostrum, we often hear flows of dirt, lies, mutual accusations, but there is no desire to unite Parliament for the benefit of the entire Ukrainian people, because the protection of Ukraine's linguistic diversity is only one hundredth of the human rights that we have to work and fight here. The faction of the Party of the Regions, President of Ukraine Viktor Janukovic states in his programme that we are not building Ukraine for politicians and political parties – we are building it for people, for every particular citizen of Ukraine. So let's think about the dirt, the lie, the cynicism that grows here every day. It all pours out on our Ukrainian people, on our Ukrainian state. Let us join together, however, in order to achieve the Ukrainian President Januković programme and build Ukraine, not for multinational apartments, but for the Ukrainian people, for each individual, so that everyone can be comfortable and comfortable in our independent Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u36	Instead of thinking about the dirt, we need to cleanse society of it. Yeah, the speech's over. Please, those who have made suggestions and observations need certain assignments. Please, Secretariat, prepare. Two factions are "BUT" and "Our Ukraine." The N.O.S. is requesting a recess. A break of up to 11 hours is announced for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u37	Who's with the application? Cosmackin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u38	Good afternoon, Your Honor! In your mind, the statement by the Faction BUT is "The Fatherland" and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". "The Yulia Timoshenko Faction – Fatherland and the NU-NS faction in the Supreme Council states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will deliberately refuse to comply with the demands and recommendations of the Council of Europe, as set out in the Paris resolution of 26 January this year. Ukraine has announced a course for European integration. We have made proper commitments to the Council of Europe, of which our nation is a member, and our responsibility is to carry them out. In line with the agreements reached at the Conciliation Council on February 6, the Foreign Affairs Committee prepared a draft Supreme Council Regulation on measures to implement the Paris requirements. Today this draft ruling is not included in the agenda, and this is because the leaders of the faction of the Party of Regions, the minister of justice, have consistently stated that all the questions and demands for Ukraine, as set out in the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, can and should you decide in Parliament. The leadership of the State has consistently voiced the slogan of European integration, and in practice it is doing everything possible to curb Ukraine’s movement to Europe. Most openly block laws aimed at immediate compliance. Regrettably, the leadership of the Supreme Council ignores the demands of opposition and does not include these bills in the agenda of the day. The third resolution of PARJE makes a direct appeal to President Yanukovic, demanding the release of former members of the government and allowing him to participate in the next parliamentary elections. But the Ukrainian authorities have never offered any real action to implement the resolution, regardless of what the month has passed since its adoption. The "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood" and "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", appealed to President Yanukovic for an immediate meeting to discuss issues of State importance, especially issues relating to Ukraine's relations with the outside world and the real threat of its isolation. Sadly, though, the President did not respond to these suggestions. It seems to me that he is somehow isolated today by those people who should advise him to do so, but unfortunately they advise him not to do so and he probably doesn't watch TV where these signals come from. That is why the Faction "BUT – "Paternity" requires the immediate consideration in Parliament of a draft decree on the implementation of the recommendations and requirements of the PAREA set out in the Resolution on the functioning of democratic institutions in Ukraine. Any further delay will have irreparable consequences for the development of our state, and the responsibility for this will lie with the Head of the Supreme Council and the parliamentary majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, you have listened to a statement that has the right to life, but which does not exactly correspond to the reality that someone willfully refuses to implement the resolution. I'm sorry, there was a statement, a request for the leadership of the Supreme Council, to which I have to answer. Do you want to play the same gate? That's not gonna work, you know. Because the presiding officer has such a right. I'll say it again. I remind you, the Conciliation Council was talking about it, and we agreed. There are two draft decrees. One draft ruling that was drafted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and another draft decree prepared by a group of our deputies representing our Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We agreed that once these draft decrees are passed by the committees, we will consider them immediately. At the moment, I have opened a site: a draft regulation on the implementation of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe – there is no decision of the committee of profile to date. [[Registration number 1055]] [[Belarus, Goodman, School, Sas, Tarasyuk, Bondarenko and so on and so forth]] So the committee's decision will be ready for tomorrow's committee decision, I don't rule out that we can and will consider them tomorrow as soon as the committee's decision is made. So far I don't see them making that kind of decisions. We are considering the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Order of Crossing of the Ukrainian-Russian State Border by Citizens of the Border Regions of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. [[Registration number 0246]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please support the presiding officer. [[11:13:43]] For-198 Offer supported. Report to the First Deputy Head of the State Border Service, Pavlova Anatoliyovich, please. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I report to your review on the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Russian Federation on the order of crossing the Ukrainian-Russian state border by residents of the border regions of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. This agreement was signed on October 18, 2011 in Donetsk. The ratification of the agreement will allow for a number of preferences for residents of the border areas of Ukraine and the border regions of the Russian Federation: first, to ensure a simplified order of crossing of the Ukrainian-Russian border for all residents of the border areas. The other one. The right to cross the border marked by the category of citizens at all points of entry: at international, inter-state and mainly local points of entry. Third. The right to cross the border at local checkpoints is not only on foot but also on its own transport and bus. Four. Stay up to 90 days in the territory of the site without registration and filling in migration cards. The draft law is in agreement with all interested central executive authorities. Ratification of the agreement in the context of the already ratified joint control agreement will allow the practice of allowing citizens of Ukraine and the Russian Federation to pass the border areas at 218 points of entry, not 53, where an appropriate one is being implemented today. This will have a significant impact on the level of good neighbourly relations and create conditions for a comfortable crossing of the border by the citizens of two countries. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, the first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Taras Cranovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u42	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national deputies of Ukraine! Our committee studied this ratification law and unanimously supported it. We had certain questions, but we received enough answers. I would like to point out right now that this bill is not about politics, it's about people's needs. We see that the Ukrainian-Russian border is gradually being established. We see that the Russian side is today directing enormous financial resources to enrich this border. And most likely, not even on the Ukrainian side, but on the Russian side, there's going to be a pretty tough overlap of the entire perimeter. Under these circumstances, people who have families in common are in constant contact with those villages and towns along the border as a result of the signing of our ratification of this agreement, in fact, getting enough entry points to be able to contact their neighbors unhinderedly on the other side of the codon, in fact, in conditions where they could contact before the border was established between the two nations. I think that this law really solves the problems that once arose that I talked about being cut alive. We'll create conditions for nothing to be cut alive. So we call on him to be like a humane human law, to uphold him. Now for the next moment. The law is maintained by all interested parties, by all committees, and by the Committee on National Security and Defence. There have been warnings from the Chief Science and Technology Administration at two points - one point at a time - that there is no agreement, it is a mistake or a misunderstanding. The agreement of all interested parties is complete. As for the fact that there is no need to ratify the law, we do not agree with it for one reason. Because ratification is necessary, in accordance with the Treaty, the Law on International Contracts of Ukraine is ratified in a case where they introduce a different method, a different regime than that provided for in existing legislation. The method of crossing the border is simplified, which is introduced by this treaty, is not provided for by the legislation in force. Ratification is therefore absolutely necessary. Please support ratification. I think it's good for people and it's good for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u43	Thank you. Shall we vote? Dear colleagues, come on, sign up. What's more, I see they want to talk about who's got nothing to do with the Russian border. Alexandrovska, please, has something to do with the Russian border. The school doesn't have one, because Lviv doesn't have a border with Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Well, a statement by a representative of the Committee of the Supreme Council just couldn't help but surprise me. Well, that must be a strange logic for a man! At first, he was afraid of what Russia was bad at, what it did to the borders, how it closed them. That's why we need to make sure there are checkpoints. It is therefore necessary to ratify. Ratify what? We are invited to ratify a bilateral agreement with the Russian Federation! So, what did our colleague see about evil? What does he see that Russia doesn't want anything there or wants to fence? It's just crazy ideas sometimes come up in this room. Of course, the agreement must be ratified. This refers to Ukrainian citizens living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Donetsk, Lugansk, Sumski, Kharkovsky, Chernigovsk oblast. These areas are, by definition, borderline. They are residents of these areas, these regions are entitled to stay in border territory for 90 days on the other hand, yes, to resolve their issues, to communicate with friends and friends. 90 days without registration. Finally, migration maps have been abolished, which have led to the development of wild lines at the border. You probably had to drive schoolchildren and children, and here I was in the Belgorod region, driving schoolchildren to the museum. Two buses, 60 kids. Try standing with your children either in the heat or in the cold while these migration maps are drawn up. Therefore, of course, it is necessary to ratify for the benefit of our people. The right to cross the border is clearly simplified. This right is granted to all residents of the border regions of these areas, as I said. And, of course, there can be no warning, no fear, there must be a clear ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u45	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u46	Adam Ivanovich, so that you don't say that I have no relation to the border, I'm asking you to hand over Mr. Steshenko, who has a direct relation to the border with the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u47	May, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I really worked in the region for 25 years, where I worked for 750 kilometers of the border. The questions of Ukrainian-Russian relations are not new, both in terms of our historical past and today. Ship's diplomacy is not an effective tool for interstate relations. Two years of empty talk are marked by national interests in a defined level of strategic partnership. Is the level of strategic partnership presupposes the presence in Ukrainian prisons of political prisoners of the first magnitude, such as our leader, Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, and dozens of other patriots of Ukraine? That is why the ratification bill initiated by the authorities by the "BUT – "Fatherhood" faction came only from state positions, taking into account the interests of the inhabitants of the border areas, particularly Ukraine, although the movement in inter-State relations should be bilateral. What is positive about the signing of the Donetsk covenant? First. The agreement is extended not only to residents of the area or to the administrative territory of the inhabited area, but to the region, that is, the area. It really is. The other one. Fixed requirements for fitting and equipping local pass points. Third. By agreement of the parties, the mode of operation of the local pass points and their numerical increase may be changed. This is also a positive moment. But the main thing is not to settle any inter-State agreement is that executive authorities in places and local self-government authorities should engage in explanatory and educational work among the population in order to raise a culture of attitude towards both the state border and the state as a whole. The "BUT"- "Paternity" faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u49	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u50	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, here in paragraph 11 of the forecast of results, well, that's by design, so the subject of the legislative initiative is submitting a bill, it is stated that the adoption of the Ukrainian Law will contribute to the further development of good neighbourly relations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Maybe that's true, it's the level of interstate relations, but I wanted to point out that obviously in the projection of the results you could write what all of my predecessors said behind this platform. It's a humanitarian bill, it's a humanitarian agreement, and it applies, first of all, to human relationships, to human relationships, to those people who are often divided by the state border in the form of a family, in the form of family, in the form of even close relatives, and friends, let's face it. And that's why I'd like to emphasize, and for that I've taken the word that there are still important things in this agreement that we need to support. This is not just about going to a particular region. What do I mean? First, here really, and General Shisholin said that you can cross the border, I want to take an article that's appropriate, on foot, on bicycles, on motorcycles, on heavy and light transport, and so on. So that's what's going on in the border areas. Similarly, our people cross this border. A second positive point that can be crossed over on light cars, while the registration of these light cars is not necessary today. And the third very important moment, I think, is that residents of the border regions can move goods across borders at local points of entry that are not for commercial purposes without paying customs and taxes. If you take the first, the second, and the third, it's really a humane and humane offer. The National Party faction fully supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u51	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u52	May I have the floor to Popescu?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u53	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u54	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Your Honor, the Party of Regions will vote in favour. And when I discussed this bill, I wanted to pay attention to three points. First. Ratification of this law will contribute to the further development of good-neighbourly relations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. The other one. In line with the European standards of cross-border crossings between the border regions of Ukraine and the Russian Federation, the European Charter for Cross-border Cooperation meets the requirements of the European Charter of Cross-border Cooperation and the normalization of the situation in our eastern borders will also contribute to the mediocre liberalisation of the visa-free regime with the European Union, as this is the requirement. And the third and the main. In addition to what our colleague Zarubinski said, I would like to emphasize what is going on to simplify the procedure for crossing the border. And the second moment is also very important -- four times the number of crossing points is increasing, from 53 to 218. And this will eventually help people who live in this region. Thank you. And the Party of Regions wants to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u55	The discussion is over. I am voting for the proposal to adopt the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Order of Crossing of the Ukrainian-Russian State Border by Citizens of the Border Regions of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. [[Registration number 0246]] Please vote. [[11:27:26]] For the 320. Thank you. The law is passed. The factions. Region Party - 184, "BUT – "Fathership" – 50, "Our Ukraine" – 10, communists – 25, "Reforms" – 19, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 12. We are considering a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the amendment and addition to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified information. [[Registration number 0218]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[11:28:15.]] For 223 Offer supported. Reported Deputy Head of the Security Service, Rodzko Volodymir Mihajlovich. Get ready, Kurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! According to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on Mutual Protection of Secret Information, ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament in September 2005. The ratification agreement signed on December 2, 2000, in Kiev, amends article 3 of the existing agreement, which provides a new title for the competent authority of the Republic of Estonia and complements the party’s obligation to inform each other in a diplomatic way about such changes. To take effect, this international treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. His project is in order and is in harmony with all the interested authorities. The ratification of the Agreement in the form of an exchange of notes is Ukraine's implementation of the internal procedures necessary for the conclusion of this international treaty. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u57	Thank you. From the Committee on European Integration, Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil's deputy head.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u58	Dear National Deputies! As a result of a preliminary review of the bill by interested units of the Supreme Council and its apparatus, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, National Security and Defence and the General Scientific and Scientific Administration do not object to the ratification of the agreement. At the same time, the Rules Committee commented on the absence of all the supporting documents provided for in the Rules: there was a lack of agreement on the bill. [[Article 91]] The main committee on European integration considered Bill 0218 three times in its sessions: September 21 and November 2, 2011, as well as January 11, 2012. As a result of these discussions, the committee, in support of the ratification of the agreement in principle, found that the bill did not comply with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, in particular the provision of part three of article 200, according to which the bill on the granting of consent to be bound by an international treaty of Ukraine sets out the order and conditions for the entry into force of an international treaty in Ukraine in accordance with the provisions of that treaty. The bill does not comply with these conditions, and there are differences in the text. The Ukrainian Ministry of Justice has also drawn attention to this fundamental flaw at the stage of the bill’s agreement. Moreover, other violations of the legislative technique have been allowed in the drafting of the bill. Nor do the regulations of the Supreme Council meet the accompanying documents, such as the contents of the “Explanatory Note” to the bill, and more precisely contradicts the text of the bill itself. Since receiving the bill, our committee has repeatedly, in June and September.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u59	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u60	violated the subject’s right to legislative initiative as to the need to remedy the shortcomings mentioned. Even so, we have not responded properly. In this regard, our committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be returned to the draft with a view to drafting the bill in part, which determines the procedure for entering into force by a treaty ratified in accordance with the content of the concluding provisions of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u61	Yeah, we'll talk about it? Please sign up. Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the MP's Reform for the Future will not support the calls of our last reporter. We will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. We can see that it's very technical. The current articles, which are foreseen by the existing covenant, provide for changes, are legitimate. Therefore, there is no reason for the parliamentary group not to support it. Not enough, I would like to point out that the work or strengthening of a good neighbourly relationship with this country may be supported by all society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u63	Please, Fedun. Grivkowski. None. School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u64	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! Well, I don't think anyone has any doubt that the author of the legislative initiative is an outstanding cloud intelligence of the Ukrainian government, you know, as it prepares, there's something to read, there's something to work with, that is, it's high-class intelligence. They can either ban Ukrainian or throw history out of school, they're artists. And to prepare a simple one, I emphasize, is a simple ratification document. There are rules under which these documents are written. It's simple and very clear. So that's what you can teach, well, a person with secondary education and not the highest degree of appreciation, which is not the difference between that, but, you know, the "good guy." But you know, our government doesn't draw on the good guys either, because they can't really understand the way that the law field works in Ukraine, because they've never followed the laws themselves, and they're trying to raise citizens in the same way that they don't follow the laws, but they live by the concepts. So I think we can recommend to the Ukrainian government that we sort of deal with Estonia. It's small, it's just to talk, to gather around and explain how confidential information is exchanged. You will understand that such agreements have been made by Ukraine for a long period of independence, I will not say, hundreds of such agreements have been made. And here, now that the explanatory note does not correspond to the content of the law, you too, although the main committee here is, of course, the Committee on European Integration, but the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also considered the relevant project. a bill for ratification. So I think we should just, I don't know, put a red card on the government and whoever was preparing this law. And I would like to get to know, perhaps personally, a skilled expert who is simply demeaning not only the government but the whole of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u65	One minute, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Think about what the discussion is about today. Estonia is sending us a note on December 7, 2009, which tells us that it has changed the name of the competent authority to the Department of National Security of the Ministry of Defence and asks that one point be added: the parties inform each other through diplomatic channels of any subsequent change in their competent authorities. All of it! There's nothing left. For a year, our competent authorities have been thinking, should they not? A year later, December 2, they say, five days before the year, they say, “Yes, we agree. ” It's almost two years, one and a half, and we're considering this deal today. Well, isn't that funny? What is the pace in modern life? Because of this, there is a violation of the Rules. But what's with the paperwork? They need to be ratified now, but then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u67	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for your thoughts are divided. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified information. [[11:38:47]] For 255 The law is passed. We are considering the draft Act amending article 210 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to improve criminal liability for violations of budgetary legislation. [[Registration number 4427]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:39:22]] For 222 Supported. Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, Prokopchuk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Yuri Volodymyrovich, you're like the author, and you have a co-reporter in four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u68	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. In general, such bills are obviously needed because they relate to economic security. And, honourable colleagues, this bill was introduced by me in 2009, not in a situation, but when it was really necessary to actually regulate the relationship between the state and the relationship between those who perform the functions of the State in their posts. And yet Project 4427 is still not out of date, because modern politics and economic conditions in Ukraine are contributing to the possibility of criminal attacks on the state's financial activities, including the use of budgetary resources. It is no secret when, among other things, funds are being made available today, which are then transferred from one social object to another’s construction firm, usually close to control, according to the party of authority. And then these costs either break out, or they stretch out, or they go abroad into the offshore. Therefore, it is proposed that the criminalization of article 210 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code reduce the limit of damage to 500 non-taxable minimums of citizens' incomes to calculate large-scale losses and a thousand non-taxable minimums of citizens' incomes – for a particularly large amount. Currently, administrative and criminal responsibility is provided by legislation for the purposeless use of budget funds by a service person, the execution of budget expenditure or the granting of credits without the establishment of budgetary assignments or exceeding those referred to in article 210 and article 164, paragraph 12, of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. And the criminal responsibility for the conduct of these actions comes under the condition that the subject matter of the actions provided for in article 210 of the Criminal Code was large - scale budget costs, i.e. if the amount of trespassing in a thousand and more times exceeds the non - tax revenue of the citizens. According to the Ukrainian Tax Code, the damage is calculated at 50 percent of the social cost of living for the current year for the working person and at 536,000,500 dollars. That's it. Damage to the purposeless use of budget money is considered to be particularly large if it is 3,000 times more than the taxed minimum income of citizens. I want to say one thing. When there is political repression in the country today in relation to Yulia Tymoshenko, who had no total interest in any material interest that has been proven, and has not been proved entirely by her material interest and loss in the state because of her personal interests, when Lucenka is sentenced to 40,000 dollars, it turns out that in Ukraine today, current officials can make financial violations of 536,000,500 dollars and pay a fine of 1,300 dollars. Why, then, is it that the question, not in this article, is that criminal cases have been committed, but criminal cases have been committed against articles that today's authorities do not wish to decriminalize by decriminalizing both bribery and smuggling and falsification of documents, and 16 articles that cannot actually be brought to criminal responsibility today? This proves once again the very political component of the condemnation, the illegal condemnation of Yulia Timoshenko and the near illegal condemnation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u69	Yes, if you wish to speak, please sign in. Yuri Hanustak. After him, Fedun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u70	Gentlemen, this is a very serious problem and we need to look at it in the complex of all budget legislation. So we have the adopted budget code -- it's said to be a beta version, where there's a list of budget violations, there's sanctions. But they also need to be harmonized with the Criminal Code. And it's pretty straightforward to write out the distribution anyway. Because there are many cases where budget wrongdoing is caused in a special way. Even if it can be avoided, such conditions are placed in place when, let’s say, there is underfunding, a timeless transfer from the government’s subsidy budget when a person is guilty without fault. Hence, they say: We must be very careful. Eventually, for several years now, it has been a matter of moving on to long - term planning or at least medium - term planning. That eventually, we need to harmonize and synchronize the purchasing system with the budgetary process. So, eventually, we need to get the whole Minfin purchase system in order. So he can finally figure out that this is the other side of the coin. And we need to serve it. Because only Minfin is the only one, well, conscious ministry in this Kabmin. It's the only ministry that stands on its feet and it's finally going to, the President, blow up its fragile project that's been implemented recently. So I'm saying that really, the law has to be adopted, adopted in the first reading. For second reading, of course, it needs to be adjusted. But this is just the first step. Because we need to make sure that all the wrongs in the budget system are done on purpose. And only then did they.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u71	Please, Fedun, Party of Regions. You don't? Yeah, doesn't Grivkowski insist? Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The implementation of the budget system has been disastrous in the country’s legislation on the country’s budgetary system. Which city you won't take, there'll be a breach around there. That's why I've had a serious dialogue with Mr. Blackwolf. Because I think he misinterprets the role of the government in robbing the city of Kiev. Because the boys in charge of Azaro are doing the right thing! They're 3 billion, the government's robbed the Chinese! And you think others should be approachable. Surrender yourself. Thus, these young men, including the government, must be criminalized in this article. As to the changes that the reporter is now proposing, I am twofold. First. Part two of article 210, which is proposed to be amended, is not to be changed. Because of what? Because there is competition with articles 364, 365, and this competition is absolutely essential. As for making changes to notes and lowering the threshold of responsibility, I fully support this bill and support it. I would like to introduce to you yesterday's vision of President Yanukovic of Ukraine. Last night's vision was like this, quote, quote. "I underlined that the Odessa pipeline project, which spent a considerable amount, needed to be reprocessed." 600 million dollars, I emphasize! And the president says, "As a result of a mistake, the sewers go down into the water." So here's my question, from this rostrum, that's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u73	The president heard you. The president heard you. One minute, Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u74	I'll finish, let me!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u75	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, let us reflect on the substance of the proposals made by the author of the bill. It is a matter of clarifying the provisions of the Penal Code relating to penalties for non-earmarked use of budgetary resources. Please tell the Ukrainian citizens whether or not they were motivated by an official who wrongly uses budgetary resources for purposes other than those of their own? It doesn't matter. The main fact that the law and the budget had not been appointed was that the people were in fact incarcerated. Therefore, this strange attempt by the author to make a further correction that these actions, which are done on behalf of useful or other personal reasons, are totally pointless. An official shall not exceed his or her authority and shall not have the right to violate the law. Therefore, this law cannot be essentially upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u76	Question completed. I'll bet you a vote. A replica? Well, Blackwolf, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u77	Dear friends, well, I was surprised by Mr. Carmazin's statement. So the point is that we've discussed with him the next issue, which is completely subject to the need to adopt this law. The city of Kiev is illegally cleared of 7 and a half billion dollars. After that, the Cabinet of Ministers, after that, prepares a budget that returns in the form of subsidies for capital functions of 4.3 billion. Of these 4,3 billion in the end, the Cabinet of Ministers returns only 1 billion 100 million. Where's 3 billion 200 million? All the programs that are planned, Kiev could finance itself, they all fly. Thus, this is a powerful example of the misuse and implementation of budgetary legislation. So this law that we have been offered is absolutely right and necessary. Thank you for your attention. I support the Prokopchuk Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u78	Question completed. I'll bet you a vote. Adopt the Act on Amendments to Article 210 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on improving criminal liability for breaches of budgetary legislation. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:51:47]] For-97 The decision is not supported. The law is rejected. The factions. The party of regions did not vote, "BUT" – 73, "Our Ukraine" – 19, the Communists, the People's Party – did not vote, "Reforms" – 2, non-fractional – 3. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act. [[on improving decision-making and decision-making mechanisms]] [[Registration number 9168]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:52:34]] For 221 Supported. Rumors from Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. Prepare Shishkini.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u79	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, this bill is another piece of legislation on my part to try to get your attention in some way to what we have in Ukraine is the Constitutional Court Act of 1996, which is long overdue. Sadly, though, during these 15 years of his activity, his actions, more specifically, were limited to minor constitutional little strokes, changes that did not essentially change anything in this law. Including the results of court activities that do not periodically take place in Ukraine’s history, one political power, another authority, the other authority, has its roots in that imperfect law that we apriorists do not even want to consider, because we consider it to be such a sacred cow that we should not even approach. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, the vast majority of the things that are in the Constitutional Court Act are interpreted simply by the Constitutional Court as conveniently as it is. And this bill is an attempt, although part of the non-constitutionality of laws, that the Constitutional Court should try to approach, not only formally, but also take into account all the grounds for considering such a matter, including the procedure for enacting the law; that it should be clear, clear, concise and one that enables it to be carried out as the Constitutional Court meant, not as anyone would have liked, because it is ambiguity in the position of the Constitutional Court; that is an attempt to have the decisions of the Constitutional Court published in the Gazette of the Constitutional Court, because they are not published. There is a special magazine of the Constitutional Court. For what it is for if in all other organs the decisions are first published in a special printed body. Then the Constitutional Court has its own logic, its own specificity. And so many other things, in particular, about the judiciality of decisions of the Constitutional Court on the social nature of the courts of general jurisdiction. Dear colleagues, I know that this attempt will fail again. But I point out to you that until we systematically approach this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u80	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u81	We're going to have a problem with any decision of the Constitutional Court that's never going to set anyone up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u82	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Shishkin Elin Victorovn.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting on 6 December 2011 the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[on improving decision-making and decision-making mechanisms]] The draft law has been drafted with the aim of improving the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act to implement the decisions and conclusions of the CSC. Yes, the bill provides for the obligation of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to deal with matters concerning matters. the constitutionality of the laws and other legal acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the existence of all possible grounds for recognition of the relevant act or its separate position as unconstitutional, as well as the detailed quality requirements for the content of the decisions. At the same time, the bill contains some positions that members of the Legal Policy Committee disagreed with. For example, the draft law provides for the addition of part 3 of article 70 of the Ukrainian Law on the obligation of the relevant State authorities to report in writing to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine the results of the enforcement of the decision. But the first sentence of the same part of article 70 of the Ukrainian Law has already established that the State authorities have written confirmation of the execution of the decision to comply with a finding if the Constitutional Court has requested such confirmation. Moreover, in the event of the adoption of the proposed provision of article 70, part 3, of the Law, Ukraine will not agree with each other, since the first sentence of this section defines the need for written confirmation only if the Constitutional Court so requires and the second sentence determines the need for such written confirmation in each case. Therefore, the appropriateness of the proposed addition to article 70, part 3, of the Law of Ukraine is too questionable. With regard to printing in the official decisions of the Constitutional Court, together with the individual opinions of the judges, it should be noted that the Gazette of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is a scientific journal established by the Constitutional Court, which comes out of a period of six times a year. Thus, the requirement to publish the decisions and conclusions of the CSA, together with the individual opinion of the judges, is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u84	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u85	In particular, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on 2 November 2011 that a number of comments were also made to the draft law and proposed that the first reading of the draft law should return its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. On the basis of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. [[on improving decision-making and decision-making mechanisms]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u86	Shall we vote? Besides Carmazin, who else insists? Please, Carmazine's word. Excuse me, sign up, sign up. And, Carmazin, sign up as well. Everybody sign up. Please, Blackwolf. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u87	I can't tell anyone except Carmazin. And let him call everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u88	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I will take a joint position with the National MP Blackwolf on this law: 9168. Unlike the committee, I think this law should be adopted. I want to thank Ruslan Knyazevich for seeing that the Constitutional Court does not respond on every basis on the grounds provided for in article 15 of the Constitutional Court Act. One. The other one. The Constitutional Court, which is gathered by the government today, is simply aggregated because 67 million, who have been allocated to finance 18 judges of the Constitutional Court, are likely to implement the decision given to it. I think that this organ is going to cease to exist today at all, because it's lost its orientation, as Odessa says, "swimming over the storms." The most recent decisions of the Constitutional Court have shown that it violates the Constitution, violates article 22 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, and therefore such a court cannot continue to exist in the same way that it still exists. The National Deputy Knyazevitch proposes that the Constitutional Court determine the order and timing of the decision. And that's absolutely right, because the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not enforced by our authority, they are implemented only when there is a desire or a change to the Constitution or not to comply with the laws in force. Think about it, this Constitutional Court, which now exists, 14 of its members have decided that the government can pay for laws adopted by the Supreme Council and finance guarantees, benefits, compensation only to the extent that this underprivileged government can execute them. This is the Constitutional Court we have. Therefore, this law should be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u89	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I think that when we discuss such drafts of specific high-pitched paphos and demagogies here, it is totally useless. The point is that the decision or activity of the Constitutional Court today does not give rise to any political power. This is wonderful, so the Constitutional Court has achieved what is required by its activities – civil compromise. One thing is that the work of the Constitutional Court meets the requirements of the law, and the main thing is that the Constitutional Court should give an assessment of, experts, lawyers working in constitutional law. And I want to give you an example, and here's a very interesting theory is that immediately after the Constitutional Court's decision, property rights should be restored and so on, in 2007, the Constitutional Court decides not to allow further decisions in the Law on Budgets to abolish the benefits and so on. All social benefits, as frozen in 2007, were never recovered. Because there is no mechanism for implementing such decisions. I think we need to agree to a profile committee proposal and send this bill for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u91	Question completed. I'm voting on the author's proposal, because both the committees and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administrations have a different opinion. The author's proposal is to adopt, as a basis, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9168]] [[12:02:40]] For-72 Overruled. Dear colleagues, how do you see that we work without interruption and complete our consideration of the issues? I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please be supportive. [[12:03:12]] For 262 Thank you. We are considering a draft Act amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code to bring Ukraine into line with the Constitution. [[Registration number 8639]] There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please be supportive. [[12:03:40]] For 202 Supported. Reported by Schustik Olena Yuriyovna, prepare for Naidonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u92	Olena Shustik, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished TV listeners! We propose to amend article 61 of the Family Code and to provide that the land acquired by one of the couples as a result of their free transfer from state or municipal property does not refer to the property of a common property if the other is a foreigner or a stateless person. This project will protect the property rights of individuals in privatized land areas, exclude certain coalitions and the possibility of improper application of the provisions of part five of article 61 of the Family Code. It is well known that in February 2011, the Law amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code on the subject of the rights of the common property of the couple, which has been incorporated into the rights of the joint property of the couple, including the land area, as a result of the free transfer of it to one of the spouses from the state or municipal property, including privatization. However, the law does not take into account the fact that one of the spouses may be a foreigner or a person without citizenship, and, last but not least, they will take part indirectly in privatization. This creates significant contradictions in the application of article 61 of the Family Code, since the current Ukrainian legislation stipulates that Ukrainians can be solely citizens of the privatization process. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, the scientific and expert boards are proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. This bill, by the way, was designed at the request of many of our concerned citizens, as well as notaries, who faced the problem of applying the law on property rights. Please support this bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u93	Thank you. Secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Najdjonov Andry Mihajlovich
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u94	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! The committee considered the draft Law amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code to bring Ukraine into line with the Constitution, introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Shustik, Bolura, Kowzel. The main scientific and expert office made comments on the bill and came to a general conclusion that, as a result of the first reading, the bill could be adopted on the basis of the following comments and suggestions. The Committee on Legal Policy believes that the bill is in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs decided that the proposed bill had no impact on the budget indicators. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u95	Thank you. Shall we vote? You want to talk about it, write it down. Jaroslav Suhi, please. He's got Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u96	My fellow Members, I sincerely and frankly welcome the drafters of the bill and call upon representatives of the parliamentary minority to continue to introduce laws that are profound and well-founded and of high relevance. You look at the report, calmly, without shouting, without indignation, without calling to fight head to wall, as some of our colleagues here do, a normal bill that clearly conforms to article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code. So I think that all of us in this session room should support this bill on the basis of all the factions. And it can be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u97	Blackwolf, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u98	Please give the floor to the deputy Lašek.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u99	More and more friends in our Ukraine are showing up in Lalashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u100	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, the time will come when the Radical Party of Laska will have 226 votes in parliament, and you will not be in office after that. It's about friends. And I hope you'll join the number of these friends, save God from this. About the bill. It is understandable that this bill should be supported and should be thanked to the school of Schustik for introducing the bill. But first of all it is necessary to bring the work of the Constitutional Court into line with the Constitution, as already discussed by a colleague during the previous consideration of the previous bill. In fact, today the Constitutional Court is acting contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Let's think about how the decision of the Constitutional Court in the country changed the form of government from parliamentary to presidential, contrary to article 5 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which states that "the only source of power in Ukraine is the people." The 18 judges of the Constitutional Court, some of whom were appointed three days before this decision was announced, changed the constitutional system in the country, gave dictatorial powers to President Yanukovic, gave the opportunity to usurp both Yanukovich and the government of Azarov, led to a coalition of "tushoks", to the legitimacy of a group of deputies. As a result, we today have in our country: banditry, lawlessness, and the taking of power. As a result, we have millions of people suffering from this power. As a result, Julia Timoshenko is in prison today. These are the results of the activities of the Constitutional Court. And disgrace to such a Constitutional Court! The Constitutional Court gave the government the right to collect pensions, wages, social assistance. Allowing the government to make these payments on its own. This is the disgraceful Constitutional Court we have in Ukraine. Shame and shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u101	The Family Code is a big problem for the speakers. Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, let's do it this way: you're all unanimous in that we really need to resolve this problem. How do we now adopt as a whole as a law, and ask whether the authors of this law, or any one of those who hears us, what is really here is the correct observation of scientific expertise, but it will violate 116 articles. So here we can't count in this law. So this is a request: we're going to take the whole now, and those proposals that are in the science department to write a separate law on the privatization of housing. Do you have a deal? I then put to the vote a proposal: to adopt the Act amending article 61 of the Ukrainian Family Code to bring Ukraine into line with the Constitution. [[Registration number 8639]] Please vote. The law is being voted. [[12:11:46]] For 343 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children. [[on narrowing the list of terms and conditions for termination of child-bearing assistance]] [[Registration number 9370]] The author suggests that we consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:12:23]] For 213 Supported. Victor Viktorovich Schemchuk reports. Prepare Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen! Your point is that I have proposed a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children. The bill proposes to narrow down the terms and conditions of the child’s birth. The need to adopt such a law is due to the fact that, under the general principles of law, all conditions limiting the exercise of rights are to be laid down in a clearly defined, then comprehensive list of reasons. The bill is called upon to make it impossible for civil servants to take advantage of the narrowing of family rights with their children. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports the legislative initiative. And please, Your Honor's fellow MPs, back her up. The bill does not have any political features, nor does it need public budget expenditure. Its acceptance will enable families with children to be protected from official abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u103	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Katerina Lukyanov
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to establish a comprehensive list of circumstances that may result in a suspension of the payment of childbearing assistance, excluding paragraph "In case of other circumstances" from the listed list. The bill is consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs decided that the proposed bill had no impact on the budget. The main scientific and expert office concluded that, as a result of the first reading, the bill could be adopted as a basis. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, do you understand? Discussion? Well, sign up. Maybe it's easy to get a word in. Yes, Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u106	Please pass the word to Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u107	Please, Victor Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Victor Corge, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to say with great pleasure that a constructive atmosphere has really developed in this room. And join Mr. Dryo's colleague in thinking that we can work constructively. And what I want to say today is that there is an end to the formation of domestic legislation on the protection of childhood, the protection of families, and so forth. Speaking of these two laws, which are said to be in one block, I would like to say that there really can be no other circumstances that are not understood in such an important matter as helping families with children. So I support this bill and I think our faction will unanimously support it. And I think he deserves to be accepted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u109	Pavlovsky Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u110	Andrew Pavlovski, "The House of Julius Timoshenko" – "The Fatherland." Please give the floor to the National Deputy Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u111	Dig in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u112	Indeed, we should thank the author of the bill because this topic is very urgent today. The government of Yanukovič-Azarov began to save on the very holy: on the health of children, families of many children. And of course, today officials want to stop those programs that were initiated by the government of Yulia Timoshenko. And the limit of not paying child support is now billions, not millions. Although this authority was declared 100,000 at birth to pay. Not even the 25 guaranteed by the State. That is why this bill needs to be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u113	What about Yuri Carmazin?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u114	Yury Karmazin Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The bill corrects the error that was made in the adoption of the Law on State Aid to Families with Children, and this should be made clear. He's just correcting our brutal mistake. Because we recorded that the payment of the child’s birth is terminated in case. And these times, two dots, they counted. And then they wrote, "in case other circumstances arise." What are some other circumstances that are not defined by law? There can never be such a situation. Because under the Constitution, all conditions that limit the exercise of rights should be clearly laid down in a list of reasons. And speaking of -- it's absolutely not a political bill, I think it has to be adopted both in the first and second readings, because there's nothing to discuss here. I agree with the offer of a colleague named Korz, who proposed this, the distinguished Adam Ivanovich. That's right absolutely, the more it's profile. But, Adam Ivanovich, when I begin to read and return, and you know, every day I read the President's annual letter to the Supreme Council, because now this source of law will be, I need to study such a source of serious right that you voted for. So I'm looking at when that minimum pension of 1200 dollars is promised by the President in 2011. When there are those tax holidays for a small business for five years that are being destroyed. And we've seen that in Kiev and Berkut, it even applies. What, then, will be the time when education and medical attention will be given to the status of a civil servant? When will things be different? Therefore, the honourable Adam Ivanovich, unfortunately, I want to tell you that the President does not keep his word. And we need to correct our mistakes. To do that, we need to adopt this bill and remind the President of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u115	Yeah, it's a line. Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u116	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In 2011, death in Ukraine exceeded 32 percent. By 170,000 people, the number of Ukraine has been reduced. So many people, a total of nearly a million, died last year. Here's this bitter statistic that shows that the worst projections for reducing the population of Ukraine are true. And that's why we need a state, a government, to do everything we can to break these sad predictions. Multi-child families are expected to receive the maximum state support, in particular the payment not only for the birth of a child, but from the State there must be a contribution for each child to have a starting capital by the age of 18. Families with five children should receive free housing from the State, two cars for each family, and the opportunity for children to learn and heal free of charge. Only radical, decisive measures in the area of child protection will help to remedy the situation in the country with mortality.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u117	Question completed. Dear colleagues, indeed, the law is just. For there is no one to establish other circumstances for themselves, and so you came by means of help, looking into the law, inventing other circumstances, and not giving. And you're not going anywhere, and you're not going anywhere to get justice. So let us thank the author and vote in general on the Amendment Act to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children. [[on narrowing the list of terms and conditions for termination of child-bearing assistance]] Please vote. [[12:21:13]] For 334 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine. [[on State support for agricultural producers]] [[Registration number 9568]] The proposal is to consider the simplified procedure. [[12:21:49]] For 202 Copy that. Unfortunately, the committee has not considered the bill, but 30 days have passed, so the authors insist that we consider it without a committee. Reports Kravczuk Vasil Petrovich, one of the co-authors of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u118	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine proposes to provide State support to agricultural producers through a 50 per cent reduction in the cost of electricity consumption and natural gas produced in Ukraine. In recent years there has been a significant increase in energy prices in Ukraine. In particular, if electricity cost 40 kegs per kilowatt in 2007, it is already worth more than one bracelet in 2011. As a result of the observed increase in agricultural prices, agricultural operators suffer considerable damage, resulting in a lack of satisfaction from agricultural producers, and an increase in the cost of agricultural production. As a result, consumer prices increase for food and social tension. The position of the agricultural sector is extremely critical. In recent decades there has been no such unfair pricing policy for peasants. In support of this, I'll give you a few figures of the State Budget Act of Ukraine 2012. Only 33 percent of the total agricultural budget, the lowest in recent years, will be spent on direct support for agriculture in 2012. In 2012, agriculture will be spent twice as much as it was spent in 2008. 2012 will be extremely difficult for Ukrainian agrarians. Because of adverse weather conditions, agricultural producers will be forced to cross more than half the area of winter crops in the spring. This will add additional damage to the peasants. A sharp reduction in government support for agriculture in 2012 will especially hurt small farms and make them give up farming. I would like to point out that Ukraine is one of the countries that has the largest power surpluses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u119	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u120	To prevent that from happening, I ask all my colleagues to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Yes, whoever's closer to the village, please sign up. Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u123	And I thought, Mikhailo Vasilovich, you're already working in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u124	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm going to half the room on which the vote for this bill depends. Dear colleagues, switch negative by positive. It's all the same after the Conciliation Council, where your faction manager raised the question that the village should be saved because it was moving in terrible quantities, and tens of billions of dollars should be helped by the village; and today, statements by representatives of other MP factions indicated that the situation in the village was so simple, if not critical. I'll just call it facts, no comments. Identify what you can do in this regard. State support at the expense of the global fund: 2008 – 6.4 billion, 2012 – 800 million – 8 times you have reduced the state support of the village. Energy prices, starting with electricity, have grown two and a half times in the last two years; prices for dairy, other animal production have fallen, and yesterday’s story of one of the central TV channels shows where this leads. Casual animals, even farmed by peasants, take knives and carve heads. In the last two years, the cutouts have reached two areas. To restore the seeds to the rational standards that are needed today to ensure a rational standard of consumption of animal production requires $5 billion. Where is such money from peasants, and where is such money in the budget? Next question. Colleagues, grants, subsidies and other forms of support in the European Union reach hundreds of billions of euros. We're from the exporting country turning into an importer. Friends, look at the external trade balance: minus $11 billion. Can we keep the bracelet? And the next question. Two years ago, a political decision was made in this room: for all of these structures, for which the price of the question is only 200 million dollars, you didn't postpone, you didn't restructure by one vote, but you wrote down 24 billion of yourself by one vote, you remember that very well, energy, gas and other utility companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u125	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u126	For the village today, vote in the first reading in order to save the situation, and make suggestions to the second reading by those on the Conciliation Council. Colleagues, the village needs immediate support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u127	Katerina Samuelk will pass it to Volodymyr Lechchenk, please. Get ready for Argentinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u128	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Of course, the proposal put forward in the bill on State support for agricultural producers, which provides for a 50 - percent reduction from 1 January 2012 in the cost of electricity consumption and natural gas produced in Ukraine, certainly needs to be supported, but it is small. The faction of the Ukrainian Company insists on a comprehensive solution to the problems in the agri-industrial complex. First of all, at the state level, guarantee: financing a targeted state-owned programme to restore the APC to at least 10 per cent of the expenditure of the state budget in the next five years; introduction of tax breaks for entrepreneurs — APC economic activity entities for five years; and a moratorium on the bankruptcy of enterprises; government regulation of prices for fuel-oil materials, fertilizers, plant protection products, agricultural technology. In this regard, communists insist on the adoption of long-term targeted agricultural development programmes and related industries, which would provide for the restoration of domestic agricultural production; the restoration and modernization of farm production; the introduction of state-owned agricultural production with guaranteed purchase prices; the restoration of irrigation and agricultural production on dried land; and the creation of adequate living conditions for people in rural areas on the basis of gasification, water supply and water supply, housing, rehabilitation, education, medicine, and culture. This is really going to be state support, not holes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u129	Arjovitin. He's handing over the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u130	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Adam Ivanovich asked who had a bearing on the village? I have a bearing on the village. Unfortunately, as a child or fortunately, I was a cow and calf breed in Luhansk because I had no other way of making money because I was raised in a boarding school. That's why I made money in the village. And there were three farms in my hometown of Lozivka in Luhansk. There's no farm today. The village was once lit day and night, and today there is no light in the village for 20 years. And only recently did we restore it. And such villages are millions in Ukraine. Why do they live like this, why can't people in the village make a penny? Because the government that is today, the government that has been in power for the last 20 years, doesn't understand one very simple thing, that the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine is the locomotive that can get our country out of economic trouble. And in 20 years, in fact, we've destroyed all the powers -- and now, and before -- we've destroyed the Ukrainian village. Anyone who comes out here to the rostrum, with all due respect for John Grigorovich Kirilenko, says that the state should help the village. But if I didn't bother you, I wouldn't help you. What does the village need today? Three key things, because I'm having constant meetings, and people at every meeting talk about it: radical restrictions on access to Ukraine so that our people, our peasants, can sell their potatoes, their onions, their milk, their meat. They are now deprived of this possibility because imports are everywhere. They're not going anywhere: neither the market nor the supermarket, because there's imported products. The village needs cheap loans, below three percent of how Egyptian peasants get these loans, not under 30, like our peasants. And the village needs low taxes. Today, taxes are smothered by a Ukrainian village, a Ukrainian producer. That's why three key things need a village: low taxes, cheap loans and restrictions on access to the country so that our people can sell their products. Then we're going to feed not only the country, but the whole world with our products.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u131	Please, Mikhail Vasilovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, from this country's highest rostrum, with a parliamentary, two, it is possible to say that one of the leaders of the “BUT” – “Batykivščina”, one of the leaders of the Company took almost one position. And we need to support that. And we support this, that we need to address the issues of improving the efficiency of the APC in a systematic manner. That's absolutely right. It's an axiom. There is no need for discussion here. How can you be systematic? We still need to come to a common understanding of the need to adopt the Land Market Act in a philosophy that will allow investment in the countryside, and there is no such money in the public pocket. That's when we don't hit the holes. It is absolutely our support for the position of the Company and the Fatherland, which is synchronized. And we sign under this position. On the other hand, we must understand that we must not give preference to any industry outside the context of the situation in the country at all. You can't do that. This.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u133	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u134	That is why we support the position of the Company and the Fatherland as to what needs to be addressed systematically by the APC rather than by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The authors' proposal shall be put to the vote. Because I've already told you that the committee hasn't considered it. The main scientific and scientific department recommends that we reject it. That's why I'm voting on the proposal of the drafters to adopt a bill on the basis of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine on State Support for Agricultural Workers. Please vote. [[12:34:22]] For-147 The factions. The Party of Regions – 1, BUT – 86, "Our Ukraine" – 12, the Communists – 25, the People's Party did not vote, "Reforms" – 18, non-fractional – 5. Overruled. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on income distribution]] [[Registration number 9317]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. Chairman. [[12:35:06]] For 203 Supported. Andrew Pavlovsky will report. The committee is Yuri Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u136	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! Let me remind you of some of the statistics of the United Nations that in Ukraine now nearly 80 percent of the population is below the poverty line, and the income gap between the richest and the poorest is 40 times higher. Of the ten oligarchic clans, 90 percent of the economy is controlled. These socio-critical indicators are the result of a very unfair system of taxation and income distribution. Also, let me point out that in Ukraine more than 12 million citizens, so-called minotaur shareholders, who have received shares behind certificates, have never received dividends from these shares. Therefore, the opposition, the Fatherland, proposes: to amend legislation on income distribution, in particular so that at least 25 percent of the net profit is paid to minority shareholders, i.e. 12 million people. And I just want to remind you that the idea of protecting ordinary citizens who own these shares belongs to Julia Timoshenko. It was her government that tried to do it, but because of the sabotage of Yushchenka and the Party of Regions, it was a success. That's why the opposition is now imposing this law. And what I want to say is that because Julia Timoshenko wanted to protect the common people, the oligarchs didn't want to share their profits and put Julia Timoshenko in jail. It's their terrible revenge because they don't want to share their profits. Therefore, justice must be restored immediately. It's fair to distribute profits and release Julia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u137	Europeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the bill was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy yesterday, and it was decided by a majority vote not to support it. And recommend you and convince you not to support him. And here's the reason. The general political phraseology of the protection of minority shareholders conceals the real life, the real life of the enterprise. If we accept this bill, what will that lead to? In order to ensure that any repayment of credits resulting from profits, any investment in enterprise development, any investment in security equipment, should be accepted by a majority vote. Shareholders of this society. That's the first one. Second. This would in no way allow for the protection of minority shareholders. This will force these shareholders to re-emerg on the development of the enterprise, to invest in money, to withdraw this profit through various treaties, as has been done in previous years when the State attempted to do so. We need to find another mechanism to protect minority shareholders. We need to find another mechanism to protect ordinary citizens. But not a populist who won't make decisions. And the last thing I wanted to say. There is a decision, including a budget committee, which is also negative against the bill, as it will lead to a reduction in the income portion of the budget. I'll tell you what. Here's the paper on December 8, 2011.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u139	Yes, thank you. Anyone who wants to make a statement please sign up. She's a blacksmith.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u140	Dear friends! I'm very much asked by Deputy Arjevetin, and I'm asking him to give me his word. But in general, a very useful law, I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u141	And no one else asked?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u142	Dear National Deputies! I share Paul’s position and tell you what. For the first time, he did not offer the right option for the protection of minority shareholders, nor did he support the Hall. We asked him to prepare his second version, worked out. Today, he made a more fitting offer. And by the way, the Science and Technology Administration shares that view. And this option is more balanced and acceptable. As far as 25 percent is concerned. Thus, shareholders are obliged to direct not less than 25 percent of the profits to shareholders each year if there is a net profit. I think it's a good offer in our Ukrainian realities. Because it's 12 to 16 million Ukrainians. And when minority shareholders are actually removed from management, and for decades they don't get their shares, I think we should think about that. Now another argument in favor, in favor of the author Pavlovsky. Today, the state has protected itself. Among other things, according to the Law on the Administration of State Property, it is stated that these enterprises are obliged to pay at least 30 percent of the dividends. So this is how the state protected itself. Why don't we try to protect these 15-16 million Ukrainians? I think it's unfair. In addition, according to the new Code, the Tax Code, today the tax payment for dividends is only 15 percent. I think it's also a good gift for minority shareholders when only 5 percent of the dividends received are due. Of course, this law, in this option, does not have this mechanism and control over this proposal, but it's not that difficult, it can be borrowed in the same law as the State did in terms of protecting its rights. So I think this point in the first reading needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u143	Fomin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u144	Alexander Fomin. Please pass the word to Schlemku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u145	A helmet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u146	Dmitry Schlemko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has tabled eight drafts of national MPs from opposition. 3 is already rejected. I have no doubt about fate and this. The reason is quite simple. Where the question is not about the interests of the oligarchs and the improvement of the lives of the common people, the vast majority do not vote. The older generation of Ukrainians from life practices, and the younger generation from the history of Ukraine, which, by the way, tobacco wants to be removed from school programs, know how the original accumulation of capital took place. At first, vouchers were bought for nothing, factories and factories were bought for nothing, other properties were used poorly, and assets were not shared. A paradox in a country where Europe's lowest wages, pensions, subsistence minimum, where the smallest other social standards, the largest number of millionaires and billionaires, are among them. Ukrainians are being pillaged, and they do not want to see to it that they improve their lives. Once again, in the country, really today, almost 13 million people who own shares or, as they are also called, minority shareholders. Almost every one of them can confirm that after the end of the year, he receives a message from associations that say he can get 5, 10, 20 copies on the stock. This is because owners who have a control package make decisions in their favor. The drafter proposes to correct this error by offering a net profit of at least 25 percent of it to be distributed among shareholders. And in order for minority shareholders to participate in this, there are at least three fourths of the votes in the general stockholders' general meeting to direct profits to whole other knives.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u147	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u148	This examines the minds of those who think only for their own good, not for the common people. I think most people today have every reason to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u149	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u150	The distinguished Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, from the rostrum raised the question of what laws the Party of the Regions supports. We don't look at authorship. We're looking at the point. Unless there is populism, and the law is in the interest of the State and the people, our national interests, of course, we will support the bill, regardless of whether it is the representative of BUT, the author or the representative of our Ukraine. Now with regard to this bill. Like the previous one, the trend is very interesting, the author's position is completely synchronized, not with the economic approach, but with the ideological approach of the Company. I have deep respect for the Company, I respect their ideology, I don't share it. But I'm speaking plainly. And here, in fact, the law states that the law actually shares the ideological position of the Company. What is the essence of this law? Like in 1917, wear a leather jacket, take a mauser and take it all away. We've been through this before. We've been through this, both through blood, and through nationalization. I think it's the wrong way. More honestly, the author will probably take a clean sheet of paper, write a statement, join the Company. I give you my word that I will ask you to be accepted without a trial period. How to go to other factions you have experience. You're going to one and three, you're going to be the first ticket. You and the music will be greeted with applause. And we're going to ask for the whole faction. But you can clearly say that if we openly say that we respect the ideology of the Company, but we don't share it, you share it, say it. One by one, the laws follow, which are based on the position of the Company, then by one block and act in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u151	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the first reading, the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the distribution of profits. [[Registration number 9317]] Please vote. [[12:47:45.]] For 104 The factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, BUT 61, Our Ukraine 13, Communists 24, Reforms - 1 People's Party - did not vote, non-fractional - 5. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the acquisition of documents for library funds]] [[Registration number 9515]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[12:48:30.]] For a hundred and Offer supported. According to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Get ready for Platoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I'd like to describe the situation in the library area today. Today, in Ukraine some 18,000 libraries with branch offices, hundreds of thousands are now working in this area. And I'll tell you that this is a unique place, especially in cities, villages, where people can come in and get services free of charge, because everything else needs to be paid. And in spite of this situation, it was unfortunate, because in 2010, when the Law was passed, the Public Procurement Act purchased periodicals: newspapers, magazines, books, went into the category of solicitation. It's never been like this. So the Ukrainian Library Association has addressed the Supreme Council, not just to me, but to everyone, asking that libraries today be able to provide a library fund quickly and cheaply. By the way, this topic was raised at Prime Minister Azarov's meeting with library representatives, where he fully supported the issue. What does the situation look like today? Imagine, there's a signature company when you can sign newspapers and magazines, it's defined in a specific term. If you're going through tender purchases, these terms don't match. So you just don't physically fall for this period. When you want to buy books, where would you rather buy books? Of course, in publishing because it's much cheaper. And if there's a tender, it's going to be necessary for firms that sell books to come out. So, of course, prices are about at least one and a half times the cost. So the librarians are absolutely logical to say that if you're helping us today with funds, even if you're allowing us to buy at the expense of the sponsoring costs, the local self-government costs, the sponsoring costs allow us to buy this literature. So I think today that's the number of libraries we need to support. And, well, I don't see what to vote here in both the first and the whole. Let's see what the discussion is about, because there are absolutely obvious things here. And to allow those people who are actually in heroism today, patriotism continues to promote the highest values and help older people who actually go to the library to consult, because there is no one else to turn to, to enable them to work at the right level. I don't think that the absence of a Ministry of Culture that controls national libraries means that the Ministry of Culture is against it. Maybe they didn't come. So I'm convinced that today we're going to adopt this bill and support our libraries.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u153	Alexei Vitaliovich Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u154	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 21 February 2012 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. [[on the acquisition of documents for library funds]] This is a bill submitted by the Ukrainian national deputies Tomenkom and Jerek. The bill proposes not to extend the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement to cases where books, periodicals and other documents on paper and electronic media are the subject of purchase. The need for adoption of this project is based on the fact that making appropriate changes will allow for the rapid filling of library funds and resources with relevant products and, indeed, providing libraries with a full range of information products. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes the bill with a number of observations, including the need to reconcile the bill with the requirements of the Ukrainian Library and Library Act in detailing the concepts contained in the draft. At the same time, the Committee on Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to the Supreme Council to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u155	Please sign up. A kossi who wanted to play Chechetov too. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, I want to prove to the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, and, well, forgive me, if there are no representatives of the Ministry of Culture, so is their opinion. Because at our committee meeting, we considered this problem. It is, of course, about financial matters. Therefore, we are not the main governing committee in this matter, but since it applies to the library, of course our opinion should also be heard. So the very essence of the tender is that there may be a lot of applicants for the purchase of certain goods or for the execution of services. But when it comes to books relating to periodicals, what can be the solicitation policy when they are absolutely unique and unique. Well, there's a book in the publication, or there's an appropriate periodical, well, what kind of tender can be when it's just unique in its own form. And to bring into this process some, well, entrepreneurial structures that libraries would have to buy this product, let's say, economic term, it really just brings extra costs to these publications. Well, the last observation by the science department is that there's a contradiction in terms of the Library and Library Act. I was the author of this law, and I want to assure you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u157	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u158	That there are no substantial conjectures that would not be in line with this fundamental law. Which is why I ask you to vote in favour of this law both in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u159	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u160	My fellow Members, I would like to continue with the thesis of the Ukrainian MP Chechtov on the bill supported by the Party of Regions and the parliamentary majority. First, I want to turn to the parliamentary minority or what they call themselves, the opposition: you stop doing politics and don't make fun of people, you're being listened to and watched by competent citizens, people who understand in some way or other the bills that are being submitted to the session hall. So secondly, we supported and will support, regardless of who they come from, from which MP, the real, reasoned, current bills, which have a clear socio-humanitarian orientation -- and the possibility of being implemented -- would. I would like to remind everyone that in our Ukrainian villages to this day, despite the trouble and turmoil, they have preserved themselves and operate on a measurable library salary in every village. If clubs, gradually under the power of crisis trying to make money, turn into something like a-a-la discotheque, and gradually lose their cultural and educational goals and tasks, then our libraries work. Helping them is a sacred thing. So I'm deeply convinced and I'm sure we're going to vote for this bill. And I want to quote you from the explanatory note on what this is about. It's to the government I appeal to, which I don't understand this bill. The bill will not allow waste of money to be spent, but will allow more rational use of public and local budgets to ensure that the information resources of libraries are filled quickly. And it allows libraries to give users a more quality and complete range of information products. I urge the session room to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u161	I'm a self-sacrifice. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u162	Thank you. I don't understand, of course, what this is, the Ministry of Culture and Art, which makes its point that they're against the adoption of this bill. Would it not be better for us to cancel it in the first place so that the Ukrainian people would not be disgraced or so important in their work? That's the first one. The other one. I agree with my colleagues, the people's deputies of Ukraine. Today, indeed, there are images, especially in rural libraries. And I want to point out wherever we are and when we don't meet, a librarian who works for a third of the bet or a half of the bet, always with one request, "Catherina Semenovna, please help me sign for periodicals. If you have any scientific publications, some art literature, please help us." This is true patriotism. These are the real bearers of culture and art in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u163	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the acquisition of documents for library funds]] [[Registration number 9515]] Please vote. Based on the base. [[12:59:46]] For 337 Copy that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, don't shout. Not much will change from what you shout. Now we're going to take a look at the findings of the science department, their observations, and we're going to make decisions. Is there no objection to accepting as a law as a whole? I then put to the vote the proposal to adopt the Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[Registration number 9515]] Please vote. [[13:01:01]] For 342 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on General Secondary Education. [[on the restructuring of public educational institutions]] Registration numbers 9062, 9062-1. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:01:36]] For 207 Supported. The first bill is presented by Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Jacinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, this is not about the simple and often debated problem that Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic said: as an example of education reforms. When it was discussed how to optimize and ensure the quality of education, at a repeated meeting and at the President's, the government was concerned that at times local officials, who had heard a signal from the Ministry of Education, had become too active in the part of the restructuring, the elimination of public education institutions. So given not only the wishes of the teachers, but also the position of the President, who clearly speaks of the need that without the territorial community, the population of the territorial community, no decision can be made to close any educational institution, I have proposed an approach that I think is optimal. The point is that this idea is not designed by me, this idea is formulated in the case of preschool institutions, both in the Law on Preschool Education, and in the Law on Local Self-Government. Clearly, the legislator had previously realized that the threat involved preschool facilities and had foreseen the system. If, for example, non-lethal officials from the city council want to take away a place or land and dispose of a preschool facility, only by the agreement of the territorial community: in the village, in the village, in the village, in the general assembly, and in the city, in the referendum it is possible to adopt this decision. I theoretically assume that there are rural schools where a few children and a rural community will agree to a school bus, work teachers, drop out of school. But it is clear that even a village council is not enough for such a key decision to develop a rural or local community. So I propose and am glad that our Education Committee has supported me in continuing the discussion around this mechanism and between the first and second readings, perhaps to go to some clarification that the closure and reorganization of the public education institution is taking place under the consent of the territorial community, by the appropriate decision of the general assembly of the village, the village or the local referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u165	Bill 9062-1, Arsenius Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, this topic is not the first time raised in this Parliamentary Hall. Already three times, the parliamentary majority refused to vote in favour of a similar bill. This is about the secondary school system, and more specifically about the destruction of the high school network in Ukraine. And I want to focus separately on Ukrainian schools. One of the brightest examples of local and central authorities being bullied by teachers, parents and children is 111 Donetska schools. This is the heroic school we stood up for last year. Despite this, a few days ago, the local authorities of Donetsk again appealed to the Court of Appeal to close the 111 schools. It's not like the President said it can't be closed in any way. Despite the fact that we won a number of courts. The debate on education in Ukraine is very difficult at all. A government that can't even prepare the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, a government that can't carry out any reforms, except to tear down schools and hospitals. Such a government should, of course, be retired. But this is about the future. Now I wanted to focus your attention on Ukrainian schools and on banning the closure of these Ukrainian schools. Companion Tomenko passed a bill that basically goes in the same direction. I urge you to support either a basic bill or an alternative bill. The motivation used by local authorities in closing schools is very simple and cynical. They say there's no money. The money for expensive cars for the local government is money to spend an incredible amount of money on the maintenance of the President's Administration and the power machine, but there is no money to support a school where there are several hundred children. It's cynicism. The other one. They say that we have a demographic situation that causes school closure. And that's another lie. Because if you look at the perspective 10 years in advance, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u167	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u168	So for the next 10 years, closed kindergartens and closed schools will have to be reopened. So I ask you to adopt this law and prohibit the closure of Ukrainian schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u169	Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Lutsky Maksim Georgievich Samoulik, secretary of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u170	Adam Ivanovich, two at a time? Both, yes. Okay. Dear colleagues, all who heard my speech in the morning, I remind you that it has been cut short in the years of independence for almost 2,000 kindergartens. And it's reduced to one and a half thousand schools. I would like to support the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the Tomenka bill. And back him up. I know there's a pretty good point to scientific expertise. We're going to work on these comments for the second reading. In just five years, 2004-2009, 640 schools closed. And it's not just a demographic situation, it's called optimization. This is the pressure of financial incompetence. And that's why we asked for support. What's more, the law is wider than, for example, our law. Ukraine’s company represented this law. Because we're proposing a norm, which is that the author of the bill is proposing a rule on, if there's a reorganization and liquidation under the consent of the territorial community, general assemblies or referendum, moving not only to a rural school, but also to a rural school, and to a city school. We'd like to support this bill. Another bill. The honourable drafter of the bill, well, we cannot, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, assign only one school by language. I don't think there's anyone in the room who would say that Ukrainian school should be closed. We can't do that. Moreover, the 10 articles of the Constitution guarantee the development not only of national language but also of national minorities. What's more, in End Positions, where the Cabinet of Ministers should open.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u171	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u172	In the Russian Federation, Ukrainian-speaking schools, well, that's not right at all, and that's what the scientific-expert department is talking about. Moreover, Arsenija Petrovich, we have excellent experience in working in Transnistria. De Transnistria opens schools, and we help with personnel, textbooks. And more than that, according to the treaties, we teach the footage in Ukraine. And that's why we rejected the second bill. The first bill, the distinguished Party of Regions, must be supported. The question needs to be unlocked. Soon the wolves will walk in the village if we take the ostrich's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u173	Yes, if you're interested, please sign up. Please, Kemenash. Zybenko. No one gave you a word, sorry. It's very simple. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u174	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The question is absolutely time-consuming, the question is absolutely apolitical. Moreover, I want to say that this is really a matter of national independence and national security in Ukraine. We need to understand that in its time, after the Great Homeland War, the first or one of the first to be done in the village after the liberation of the village was looking for an opportunity to open a school. And we know another thing, that there's a lot of thought going on among the population and it's absolutely right about the fact that there's no school -- there's no village. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill, especially since it also coincides with the bill that our faction previously passed, so I would like to ask my colleagues to support this bill. We really need to solve this question, because we need to talk about the lack of funds when there are, well, give it a word, it's the cynicism of the highest species. Once again, I would like to emphasize that sometimes we are looking for issues of national security where they are not there, we are looking for problems. And here, in fact, this problem of national security lies on the surface and needs to be solved. So I'm calling on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, calling on all factions and all the political forces represented in Parliament to support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u175	Arjewitin passes on to Viacheslav Kirilenko. Next Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u176	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Both of these are valid bills. Not for the first time in Parliament. I also introduced such bills. And they weren't supported either, probably, as they wouldn't be supported by the majority and these two. But what is the main trend in closing these schools? Schools are closed, mostly in the village, and schools are closed, mostly in Ukrainian language. That's a specific example. The village of Melushka, the Horol region, the Poltava region -- people themselves are willing to finance the school, private entrepreneurs working in the village. They made decisions at the village level, turned around, all the way to the Ministry of Education, and the Tobacco Man still takes the school, shuts it down. Even though people had to do a little bit more than cover-up, they were continued, two teachers were working at school, and the school was practically self-financing. The D.A.'s office has protested, but now what? Activists, parents who stood up for school, are persecuting them, the police are asking questions that you are so active, and the school of the next school year in the village wants to close up these children from the village of Melushka after 12 km. Where is politics when it doesn't even need government spending and people are willing to finance it? 111th School in Donetsk is a drama. And if everyone's against closing Ukrainian schools, then let's write a collective address, not only "NU-NS" and BUT, but also regionals, and communists, we'll write, "Dear Donetska City Council, don't close up Ukrainian 111 schools in the city of Donetsk, because against this, both parents and teachers, and a huge number of citizens of the famous city of Donetsk." In general, there will be no law to help with such a minister. See, the Law on Occupational Education, even this Supreme Council of Tobacco has rejected, the Law on Preschool Education has rejected, the Higher Education Act, even the Azares in Tobacco took away and even took away the working group from him. So it's not even tobacco anymore, it's Yanukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u177	The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u178	Thank you. Please pass the word to Michael Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u179	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u180	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. We have considered two bills. I can say that if one bill is written based on a party position, one can say, by election, by the growth of party dividends, then the second bill, I can, I can put my hand on the heart to say to Nikolay Vladimirovich Tomenko, written from public positions. And you can agree with the Company's position to support it, but if it wasn't for one no. It was mentioned here, quoted by the President, and the President said quite correctly: "We have a lot of trouble in the education system because they start to solve problems locally without a basic bill. By the way, the Minister of Education was also critical. And so today, when the basic education bill comes out, and the last action, when the students have already agreed, and those who have opposed it, and social organizations have come to a common understanding of the concept, this bill has been submitted to the Supreme Council, and there will be solutions, and this problem, we can not synchronize what is written in one document, and what is written in the basic. Therefore, on the basis of these procedural points, I repeat once again, on the basis of these procedural points, in our view, it is appropriate to send a bill alone, I do not call the author, a party plan to send on. As it is said to be rejected, while Nikolai Vladimirovich Tomenka's bill is to be sent to work to link him to the body of the basic education law that will soon enter the Supreme Council, we will adopt it together, and there we will find a solution to all problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u181	Please, Bully. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u182	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The MP's Reforms for the Future. I think that the topic raised in both bills is very and very relevant. This is evidenced by the numerous protests by local communities against school closings, especially in rural areas. Of course, people will always be opposed to closing schools, because schools are not just the center of culture and spirituality where local children are taught, but also the workplaces. Thus, the closure of school gives rise to a number of problems of a humanitarian and social nature. And for the village, it's a tragedy, because the closure of a rural school actually means a further decline. It's about my colleague Yatzenuk's bill. Of course, the proposal is very good, and our parliamentary group will also support this bill. We don't, in principle, understand why they're alternative, because in principle the subject is very different in them, and we also understand the situation in eastern Ukraine, we think that it can't happen in such a way that Ukrainian schools can shut down and have to shut down. That's why we're gonna stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u183	Cosmackin, please. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u184	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" – "Fathership" – "Earnishing". Respectable citizens! What is happening in Ukraine today?Oh, my God! When Arsenius Petrovich spoke of a heroic preschool. I want to say that today every Ukrainian school is heroic, because even in the most populated region, which in its demographic situation. The first in Ukraine to have a Plainenščina is to close those schools that were still being built and built by the illegally condemned Prime Minister Julia Timoshenko, then cut the tapes by the members of the Party of the Regions. And I'm saying, for example, the village of Gruševka, the new absolutely school -- it's closed today. This is what the authorities need today: the authorities need to cheat 24 billion oligarchs, not to answer for 536 thousand according to article 210, which was broken today, paying 1 thousand 300 dollars a fine, and putting all the opponents and those who interfere with them, and not giving a word from the rostrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-22-m0.u185	Question completed. It's a shame that people speak and they don't know what they're talking about. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act. [[Registration number 9062]] Please vote. [[13:20:07]] For-195 Not supported. The factions. Region Party 8, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 93, "Our Ukraine" – 26, communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms" – 19, "Afterfractional" – 4. Project 9062-1 is on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:20:47]] For 128 There is a proposal, since the first bill has received more votes, to send a bill under number 9062 to the author for further work. Please vote. [[13:21:17]] For-360 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the order of the day is exhausted today. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Request: To work productively on committees. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
