ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:07]] A 401 national MP registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Ivanyushchenka Yuri Volodymirovich, Lukjanova Vladislav Valentinović, Slobodan Alexander Vyacheslavovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 7 to 10 February 2012. Six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place. 64 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration of 7 laws and 26 regulations, 20 bills were passed on the basis, one bill was sent to the committee to prepare for the first question again, one bill was turned back to the committee for further work and another was submitted for re-reading, 12 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, 3 laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 2 laws have been passed to the committee, 5 laws have been rejected. 145 parliamentary inquiries were announced. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have Tuesday statements from factions, that is, by authorized representatives of factions and groups. Please sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Dmitri Schlimko, Mikola Tomenko. Zubanov or someone from will be next. Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Almost a month after the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution that warned the authorities of the need to stop fighting their political opponents by opening criminal cases and holding them in prison. We do not see any real action taken by the President, the Government or Parliament in implementing the measures envisaged by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In view of this, the "Paternity" faction requires tomorrow to consider a decision prepared by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Integration, which provides a clear plan of action for the implementation of the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Also, taking into account the state of health of Timoshenko, Lucenka, Yvashchenka and others and the need to carry out the documents of international institutions, and taking into account that paragraph 3 of the Parliamentary Assembly resolution of the Council of Europe clearly appeals to the President of Ukraine to consider all legal means available to him in order to release former members of the government and allow them to participate in the next parliamentary elections, the faction of Fatherhood demands that Viktor Yanuković ensure an immediate meeting with the leadership of our faction to discuss how he intends to implement the decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and to allow Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka and other political prisoners to be elected. We don't want to talk to Victor Yanukovic like politicians. We want to talk to Victor Yanukovic as government officials, Ukrainians and men. I'm sure the President doesn't know the real situation in the country, he doesn't know what his team is doing. So I think this conversation of the leadership of the opposition faction of Viktor Yanukovich will be useful not only for Ukraine but also for Ukraine. We also need to make immediate changes to the budget to ensure that local budgets are properly financed. Today, local budgets and territorial communities face the fact that they don't even have the ability to fund teachers' salaries, education in some cases -- November-December, in some cases -- for 3-4 months of the last year. It's not about capital investments or over-projects, it's about the life needs that the local community and citizens of Ukraine should be provided with. Our third requirement relates to the consideration of the decree made by Tomenkom, Kožemykakin, Martinenko, requiring the President’s immediate release of the Minister of Education, Dmitr Tobacco. Only an enemy of the country could come up with the International Day for the Protection of the Language to reduce the number of lessons in Ukrainian language and literature in our educational institutions. It seems to me that today we must clearly tell the authorities that Ukrainianism as a state policy should be stopped. To love Russia is not a crime, but to form Russian peace and destroy Ukrainian as ministers, officials or priests at the expense of the Ukrainian budget is a real crime against the Ukrainian state, a real crime against the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u3	Alexander Kuzmuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Black Basil will be next. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On the eve of the national festival, the Day of Protector of Homeland, I would like to draw your attention at any time to the urgent problems involved in strengthening the security of our nation. The history of State creation has demonstrated convincingly that ignoring defensive issues has generally been a major obstacle to the realization of our people’s dreams in a single and independent state. Sadly, security problems today remain more relevant to our nation than ever before. The world around us is changing rapidly. There are new challenges and threats of a global nature. We all need to recognize this fact, the modern, global, political process leaves room under the sun only for those nations that want to become stronger and not weaker in the next. Ukraine’s out-of-block status gives our nation freedom of political choice. It involves making friends with distant and close neighbors. At the same time, he firmly denies the defensive vacuum, since it can give rise to the world’s false idea of Ukraine as a gray, or inter-border territory. In this context, I want to draw attention to the activities of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the principal guarantor of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our state. Regrettably, when both the media and the political actors point to the address of the people in the pursuits, forgetting that all state institutions are responsible for the state’s defense. To my full conviction, we can be courageously proud of our military, who, under difficult conditions, do their tasks honestly and with dignity. Natural disasters, technological disasters, international peacemaking and stabilizing operations, where they carried out their duties in Ukraine, are examples of courage and self - sacrificing service to the country. And I can give you a lot of these vivid examples. Believe me, behind each of them is the hard, war - torn work of thousands of people in pursuits for whom the job of protecting the Fatherland is the purpose of life. Desiring to see Ukraine strong and respected. Honorable colleagues, it is not possible to mention the Armed Forces of their nation just before the elections and professional festivals. This is immoral and shortsighted, since the army is not meant for parades, it exists to protect our common house. I am convinced that the issue of the country’s security must unite society despite political conviction. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to welcome the veterans of war, the internationalists, the military, the military, the law enforcement, all those present in the hall, and all those who are willing to protect our Ukrainian people and our Ukrainian state with their lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u5	Basil Black, faction of the People's Party, please. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, constant energy challenges and political concepts of "gas" have finally forced us to move on to systemic decisions and actions. In our view, a positive change in the Ukrainian economy and social relations can open up a broad front for the fight for high energy efficiency, energy conservation and savings. Not only is it about increasing energy dependency and competitiveness, but it is essential to modernize technology, modernize social infrastructure, modernize management, manage energy management, and even modernize the consciousness of all the population and all levels of managers. The first but most complex problems are the reduction in consumption and the cost of heat for heating housing and social infrastructure, which today targets 20 percent of all the energy consumed by the state. Or perhaps the greatest amount of alcohol is gas. The rapid change of expensive imported energy to the natives, including local renewables and incentives from the facility to every apartment motivated by the installation of accounting and regulation devices, is two major priority measures for all without excluding the sectors of the national economy and social infrastructure. Let me give you an example. Of the 450,000 tons of pellet produced in Ukraine, more than 80 percent are exported. And exports are increasing steadily. The colors and energy that they contain are sold twice as cheap as we buy them in gas. There is no incentive for producers to invest in biofuels and objects. And the return of VAT is an antistimulum, unfortunately. Energy, it's energy. Whether it's on sale or on sale. And the price should only be different from the level of its technology. There is a need for such approaches in price policy to apply to all energy resources. The extensive use of free night electricity heating systems is another source of Ukrainian gas consumption reduction. Overcoming artificial barriers to the night - to - night use of electricity for heating systems instead of gas and stimulating it all can reduce its consumption in heating systems to 10 percent. Examples of high population activity in setting up individual heating facilities in apartment buildings are widely known. Today, some citizens themselves are sealing the walls of such apartments, even violating architectural standards. Because the motivation for reducing heating costs is very substantial. But without household appliances and regulation, the consumption of heat from centralized sources will not appear in terms of thermal energy savings. So Minregonbud needs to make decisions about the measurement tool and the main thing, regulating the consumption of heat from centralized heating sources of apartments in multiple floors. In order to solve the problem of sounding, the large-scale implementation of energy-efficient, fast-accumulated projects, it takes at least 5 years to channel at least 1 percent of budget funding, possibly through state, industry or regional funds based on reverse. This will create a system where the cost of introducing new energy-efficient projects will be channelled from the economy that comes from the previous ones. The formation of such a system should be the main and urgent task of all institutions of authority for a subsequent period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u7	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u8	Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! Power mode is sure to go to its collapse because it's consistent. The authorities stubbornly do the same things without learning or wanting to listen to anyone. Heads of state like the three Eastern monkeys: I can't see, I can't hear, I can't say anything. Repressions against the leaders of the opposition continue. Timoshenko and Lucenka are held in prison, regardless of the obvious absurdity and unfoundedness of the charges. Even Internet sites are at war with the authorities. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopts an unprecedentedly sharp resolution on Ukraine. Authoritarian Western politicians are already openly talking about sanctions against Ukrainian officials and international isolation. Ukraine is running out of cheap loans from the International Monetary Fund because of persecution by the regime of political opponents. And that's clearly what the U.S. Department of State said. The World Bank has generally claimed the possibility of breaking the relationship between Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund. Ukraine is already in international economic isolation and is losing any investment appeal. This power has returned not only to the civilized world but also to 46 million citizens. For days, by the way, the veterans of Afghanistan responded in the same way. And the entire Ukrainian people are turning away today from these compromised and free politicians. For their sins they were about to pay for the final national acquisition. Gazprom confidently states that the outcome of the negotiations between Russia and Ukraine on our gas transport system will be positive. Positive, of course, for Russia. Because the consortium negotiations are going as Gazprom wanted, in a two-way format, without Europe. Our national interests have become a subject of culinary trade, and the authorities can at any time turn over the Ukrainian gas transport system in exchange for the illusion of cheap Russian gas. Soon the elections, and the support of the Party of Regions continues to fall so they try to figure out how to defend themselves against their own people. In the media, there is information that the authorities seem to be making subtle plans, such as rewriting the Law on the Election of Deputies to be able to forge large-scale forgeries, or even more awesome: modifying the Constitution to extend parliamentary powers and conduct presidential elections in the Supreme Council. The regime feels that the cup of patience of the Ukrainians has become overcrowded, and it feels right, no trickery will help. Under the direction of authority throughout the country, is there now a secret sociological study to find out one simple question, is it possible in Ukraine a leftist scenario when people forcefully overthrown power? The answer is obvious: possible. You've brought everyone to the boiling point, the protest moods are rising at an unprecedented rate. Nine months from now, Ukraine will be given a real chance to change that power. The October parliamentary elections will be the first step in enabling the country to breathe freely. The united opposition is the only front and democratic forces will win parliamentary and then presidential elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u9	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u10	Dear fellow citizens! Today, the MP's Reform for the Future wants to put a stop to this. We are building that the election campaign that was launched last week, February 8, 2012 was launched by the Yulia Timoshenko Block, which had only one goal: in any way to please the electorate, by drawing attention to himself by means of scandalous, artificial pyar-actions, or by imitating the social standards of work, without actually doing so. The way politicians are discredited by the BUT faction, a fabricated corruption scandal, is a traditional and favorite tool repeatedly used by this political force to compromise its political opponents. And the fact that the Reformation for the Future faction has become an opponent of BUT is not surprising, because we have different views about the future. We want to achieve such an outcome as strong Ukraine, wealthy citizens, a powerful economy, healthy and confident Ukrainians who are proud of living in this country. And what BUT wants is power, power, and more power. For this reason, society is constantly getting involved in scandals, debates. Black and white paints draw the universe, dividing it into just friends and enemies. A valid authority is being discredited and Ukraine is being humiliated. As statesmen, it is sad to talk about it, but it is thanks to the efforts of BUT that Ukraine will already have negative prospects for European integration. On his knees, depending on the 2009 cabal gas contracts. To us politicians, it's strange to hear a claim from BUT that someone seems to be dismembering their faction, trying in any way to involve these deputies in most of it. It seems that the representatives of BUT have forgotten that 53 members of their factions have at the right time resolved in the swamp where they have gone, corrected their life’s error, and are now engaged in the work of the Supreme Council’s own deputies. Unlike you, those who discredit not only themselves and the Supreme Council but also Ukraine as a whole. It's time to remind you that it's almost a third of the higher party nomenclature of "The Fatherland" that has entered the MP's "For the Future". We're fine as deputies. Those who know the BUT well from within are quite clear that today’s management of the BUT has made a coup in the middle of their own team and is fighting for places on the lists, effectively covering up as a shield their own leader who is suffering because it is more convenient. Yesterday, we assessed BUT as a closed stock company. Today, the leaders of BUT, in our view, are much like members of a closed sect who have found themselves to be wreckers, sick spies, sexual perverts, knockers, and sales writers who are discrediting not only themselves but also their own country in which they live. We, the deputies of the Sixth Call and the patriots of our own state, may recall that it was your leadership of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc in 2008 that prepared to amend the Constitution with the aim of electing the President in Parliament and limiting the rights of journalists. It is your leaders, who have fallen into power and have not carried out any major reform, who, to this day, have been unable to declare your program, which is called the "Ukrainian Breakout". And to you, the distinguished members of the BUT faction, we encourage you to finally start defending the interests of Ukraine, not abandoning all creative and physical forces to defend questionable, skinned, narrow-party interests, but using you foolishly and humiliatingly. We recommend that by removing the masks of indifference, we find strength in ourselves – and change the soundtrack leadership, because the party is many, and Ukraine is one and the future depends on reforms and the real desire to carry them out. And to the end. A year ago, when we united the thinkers in the walls of the Supreme Council, we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u11	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u12	We, the MPs of the Reform Group for the Future, have become side by side to really influence the process of lawmaking in the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u13	Thank you. Please! Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this stage has ended. Welcome to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek, Communist faction. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u14	Respectable voters, comrades and colleagues! First of all, I would like to state that the Communists demand that all relations with the International Monetary Fund cease immediately. The latest conditions that this international financial speculative organization has put forward for Ukraine in exchange for regular credit and dollar injections are the most urgent political ultimatum. It is recalled that gas prices for the population have increased by 30 per cent immediately and by 20 per cent every six months since 1 March this year, as well as an increase of 58 per cent in the price of gas for thermal power plants. This will immediately lead to higher prices for products and goods, higher tariffs for housing and utilities, as evidenced by an increase in the water tariff on 1 March. That is, we are being tried to do the same with the people of Greece, Spain and other States. Why such a hammock towards our independence as the International Monetary Fund has become possible. This was possible because the reforms in Ukraine were carried out on their prescriptions, i.e. in the interest of the West and not of the people of Ukraine, because those reforms had led to the seizure of Ukraine's economic space by a foreign producer, the fact that an oligarchic system of power had been established, which was in fact a fifth colon and represented the interests of foreign States, which had led to this. Also because the money of the oligarchs stolen from the Ukrainian people is in the offshore zones and banks of Western States, i.e. under the control of the International Monetary Fund. This policy is a policy of social genocide. Once again, they ensure that Europe emerges from the crisis through the ruthless exploitation of ordinary Ukrainian workers, while Ukrainian oligarchs decommission workers with excessive payments, billions and billions of grivens sit in their pockets through statehoods and debt write-offs for allegedly lost oligarchs. Respectable voters, through social genocide policies, manipulate capital by such concepts as inflation index and subsistence minimum. It was no accident that the latest innovation was the change in the methodology of inflation calculation. According to this, many lists of goods for the calculation of the inflation index are expanded by those at which prices are not rising but falling. It is not surprising, therefore, that, as a result of such manipulations, inflation was only 4.6 per cent last year and 0.2 per cent for the first month of 2012. Indeed, inflation over the past year was estimated at between 20 and 50 per cent. We are also facing you today in the face of the relentless exploitation of various social strata. Of course, the social gains lost over the years of bourgeois independence can only be restored by fundamentally changing the whole system of power by changing the social and political system itself. This is possible only through an organized daily and active struggle. We Communists have detailed our approaches to addressing specific problems in the anti-crisis programme. In short, it is necessary, first, to calculate the subsistence minimum in such a way as to take into account the real cost of human housing, food, other vital costs; second, to abolish the shameful anti-social pension law adopted; thirdly, given the high level of inflation, to introduce quarterly indexation of subsistence minimum, pensions, wages, taking into account the real increase in the cost of consumer baskets. It is legal to establish that the maximum allowable share of family spending on utilities should not exceed 10 per cent of total income. We therefore demand that the public utilities of retail trade be restored, that the network of public and municipal pharmacies be resuscitated, that stable and affordable prices of goods and services be established, and that the limits of trade allowances be set at no more than 15 per cent. These are just some of the measures that we are proposing today to establish order in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. Regarding the proposals made in the speeches on the draft ruling on the last PARJA resolution. I have to say, Your Honor, when, yes, yesterday I sent for the committee's consideration the appropriate draft decree. It's not a committee draft, it's a group of national MPs. A draft decree was also introduced at the signature of the head of the delegation of John Popescu. So I'd like to ask the committee of profile to hold meetings, to consider these two documents, to make appropriate conclusions so that they can be considered at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regarding proposals for funding local budgets. Dear colleagues, we discussed this issue on the Conciliation Council yesterday, and we found support for the proposal that on March 16 on the "hour of questions to the Government" the government should provide the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian society, our citizens with information on what is planned to do, and on the basis of such a discussion, the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted relevant draft documents. So I think we're all going to support this kind of approach. As for the minister’s proposals, please let the committee consider its own reasoning. I am referring to the committee of profiles and the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to all the suggestions made in the speeches of the national MPs in need of an appropriate response, I ask the secretariat to prepare a request and an assignment. And I'd like to ask the MPs from the government's bed to take it down. Dear colleagues, please, I'm asking you. Do it. Please don't drive out. At the request of two factions: the factions "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" and the faction "The House of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Father's Mother" – announces a recess until 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u16	We'll continue the meeting. Please, from the factions who took the break, are they willing to speak? Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u17	Dear Chairman, friends of the future democratic majority, our political opponents from the Party of the Regions, the "Block of Lithuania" and the Communist Party of Ukraine and others who have joined them! The opposition demands an immediate meeting with President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine. Two years have passed -- two years of the war of power with the people, two years of the war of power with the opposition, two years of poverty and unemployment, two years of powerlessness, two years of hopelessness and two years of fighting Ukraine and all of Ukraine. We want the President of Ukraine to meet us immediately as opposition forces and to discuss, not the future of power, but the future of Ukraine and the future of our state. We demand answers to the following questions. First. How will the President of Ukraine implement the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the release and participation in the elections of Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka and other political prisoners? The other one. The Daily Session of Parliament was scheduled for Friday under the Law on Privatization of Ukraine’s Gas Transport System. We demand answers from the President of Ukraine who are negotiating with Russia, that we are again surrendering to our Russian partners, on which conditions the price of gas will be reduced, and what corresponds to Yanukovic's new old Russian authorities regarding Ukraine's participation in the Customs Union and probably in a Russian military organization under the name of ODCB? Third. We ask the President to answer the clear question: "When Ukraine signs an agreement with the European Union on political association and economic integration. Four. Ukraine's most recent deployments, in the Ministry of Defence and other military departments, say that there is a military junta formed in Ukraine that is mixed up in the large capital of the Party of Regions. We have a question. Mr. President, are you going to introduce a state of emergency in the country? And finally. You're claiming economic growth. When will the pensions and salaries for teachers and doctors be increased? When will the grants be increased? When will the Ukrainians receive prosperity rather than enjoy it? We are confident that we will have a constructive conversation with the President, and we are convinced that this will be a political and man-to-man conversation. We expect an answer from Yanukovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u18	So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We are considering a bill on Ukrainian seaports. [[Registration number 9712]] The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Demidovich Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Short cut? I'm voting on the proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:05:46]] For 225 Supported. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Demidovic Dmitry Volodymyrovich, two minutes. Prepare the raven.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u19	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! To implement the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme, Wealthy Society. A competitive economy. An effective state's Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has drafted a bill on Ukrainian seaports. The port sector is in dire need of immediate and managerial transformations, liberalisation of property relations, technological modernization and modern modernization, and a modern model for the functioning of seaports. The analysis of port sector processes in recent years suggests stagnation of investment processes in port infrastructure facilities. Investment risks are primarily related to an outdated regulatory base. Ukraine’s draft Maritime Ports Act provides not only for the establishment of new rules for the conduct of port operators but also for specific measures to reform the port sector of Ukraine. The reform introduced by the draft law provides for the following: first, the introduction of a worldwide model for the operation of seaports with a clear distribution of administrative functions and economic functions; secondly, the restructuring of state-owned enterprises into seaports and the establishment of seaports of Ukrainian seaports through strategic port infrastructures and the establishment of state-owned enterprises or public equity companies on the basis of property that provides for commercial activities of ports, privatization or transfer to concessions of the above-mentioned state-owned enterprises and public shareholders in the event of a decision being taken. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u20	Thank you. Have a seat. Deputy Head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Yuri Borisovich Kruk
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u21	Dear Adam Ivanovic, distinguished colleagues, the Transport and Communications Committee, considered the Cabinet of Ministers draft Law on Ukrainian Seaports, and decided at its meeting on 8 February this year to recommend that the Supreme Council adopt it as a basis. [[Registration number 9712]] This bill does not change the ideology of the Law on Ukrainian Seaports, No. 08081, prepared by the Professional Committee for Second Reading and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole as a law on 9 November 2011, which was unfortunately promised. [[266 votes in favour.]] It should be noted that there is a very positive decision in this bill that reflects the President's view that privatization measures do not extend to strategic port infrastructure facilities, which is in line with the views of the relevant committee. The Chief Research and Expert Office commented and indicated that the bill could be adopted on the basis of their comments and proposals. In view of the foregoing, I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposal of the Committee on Transport and Communications and to adopt the draft Law on Ukrainian Seaports on First Reading and on the Basis. [[Registration number 9712]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u22	Please sign up for the performance. Please, Fedun. Get ready for Yavorowski. Please, Yavorowski. Odarchenko passed it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, now the Orthodox from all over Ukraine are preparing for the Great Post, but the Party of Regions is preparing for this week, too, because this is a week of such an intense "deriban." You see what bills they're putting into the Supreme Council today, this, this bill is actually privatization, the dismantling of seaports that have always been a serious strategic component of Ukraine's security, not to mention that these are the profitable structures that the state of Ukraine makes a profit. At the end of the week, there is the Law on Privatization of Crossroads, perhaps this week the introduction of the Law on Privatisation of the GTS. Today all we see is that the Party of Regions, ignoring national interests, is creating shadow structures that allow it to steal state property. Look what they're offering, they want to form a structure today -- the administration of the seaports, give them a piece of property unknown, it's not mentioned in the law, it's not about letting the rest of the property go to dispossession, read, steal that property. We have some serious examples of how this happened in Ukraine, to look at the administration of river ports. Under the same scheme, this qualm was created by the administration of the river ports, and today there is no state part of the influence of the state on this structure. See how the privatisation or dissipation of Ukrispirt took place under the same scheme? Today, we can say that this sector today produces 50 percent less production than it did before. I'm very sorry that the Company is now initiating this issue to be dealt with by a reduced procedure, despite the fact that it's a demonstration today to steal property from Ukrainians. Dear friends! I propose not to vote, because after the adoption, after a week like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u24	Please sit down first. Secondly, the faction of the Company before what you're talking about has nothing to do with, see how they vote. Please, Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u25	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Now I'm not going to talk about the substance of the bill that applies to seaports. But I'm going to talk about this thing that was, unfortunately, and in the first version of the law that was fortunately promised by the President and is now again being proposed in this bill. This is about article 8 of this bill. According to this article 8 of this Law on Seaports, the seaport is provided for the continuous use of the port administration by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is totally contrary to article 85 of the Ukrainian Water Code, which is contrary to the Ukrainian Code of Land, which clearly lists the competence of local authorities and the authority of executive power. I think there are things here that are not compatible with the current Ukrainian Earth Code. For example, if someone already owns or uses land, does the administration of this seaport have authority over the use of these land? I don't think that the bill in question can even be voted on in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u26	Please, one minute of Popescu, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u27	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. High - ranking colleagues, an analysis of the port sector in recent years, have shown stagnation in the broadcasting of port infrastructure. And the risk of investment is primarily related to the legislative base, as it reflects the Soviet model of functioning. Thus, the adoption of the new law is vital. He also wanted to point out that the draft is designed not only to establish new rules for the conduct of port operators but also to identify concrete steps for the reform of the port sector. In the absence of fiscal funding, the modernisation of existing ones and the construction of new capacity in seaports require a multibillion dollar private investment. But they will come to our country if they are protected by legislation. Therefore, the law must be passed, and if there are any problems that our colleague Tuck spoke of, they can be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Thank you. A party of regions will be the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u28	Eugene Marmazov, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u29	I'd literally like to make a statement here by my colleague Odarchenko, in principle, he's such a well-weighted man, I'm surprised why he's confused and distorted everything here. First of all, the commies never vote, never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever. Second. We, for the rest of our lives, have never voted in favour of privatization, nor have we ever voted in favour of our party, including the Hersonian factory. And we won't vote for this law, so don't lie, don't lie, most importantly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to lynch your buttons and write down, you're not pushing very well. Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u31	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It is clear to all today that the Ukrainian Seaports Act is needed, and it was needed 10 years ago. Because really, the sector has evolved very slowly these 10 years and there have been a lot of unresolved issues. This law, in principle, places points on a very clear and clear explanation, giving clear reasons for many processes that today require public ports. But there's a lot of flaws in this law, and it really is. And I'd like to say that, for example, nowhere in the world is there such an administration, the administration of the seaports, and actually all the port managers, are the heads of the cities who are following instructions from Kiev. Well, it's something that never happens. And in fact, this law really provides for the privatization of ports. I want to say that last year, all of Ukraine's ports processed almost 84 million tons of cargo. And the profits were in these ports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u32	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act. [[Registration number 9712]] [[11:17:57]] For 232 Decision taken. The factions. The Party of Regions – 185, BUT – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 4, the Communists – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, the Reforms – 12, the non-fractional – 11. We are considering a draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian State Service Act. [[on the marginal age of State service]] [[Registration number 9764]] Here's two sentences, there's a proposal to consider a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[11:18:51]] For 222 Supported. Reported to the head of the National Agency for State Service, Dolbonov Viacheslav Viktorovich. Please, two minutes. Get ready for Demchishen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act "On State Service" is being submitted to your consideration. The drafting of the bill is based on the need for adequate public authorities to provide experienced management personnel, preserve institutional memory, and create conditions for the effective execution of the tasks entrusted to them by the public authorities. The bill provides for the addition of article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on State Service to a new provision which stipulates that civil servants in the first category may continue to be in the public service after they have reached the age of 65, according to their consent, in relation to the needs of the public service. It should be noted that a similar rule already exists in the new edition of the Ukrainian Act on State Service, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This bill, more specifically, takes effect as of January 1, 2013. Thus, the proposed edition will be in operation during 2012 and will ensure the stability and continuity of human resources policy and public service as a whole. The bill in question does not require any additional expenditure from the state budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u34	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Demcišen Vasil Vasilovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u35	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee discussed at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on State Service, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is proposed in the interests of the service to provide for public servants who hold the office of the first category the possibility of continuing to serve in the public service after they have reached the age of 65. [[February 15, 2012]] [[Registration number 9764]] According to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, the bill was introduced with the aim of creating the right conditions to ensure the administration of the system of state bodies and more effective implementation of the tasks entrusted to them and corresponds to the same standard of the Ukrainian Law on State Service, adopted on November 17, 2011, which will take effect as of January 1, 2013, just as Viacheslav Viktorovich had stated. As noted in the explanatory note to the bill, its implementation will not affect the state budget. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this legislative initiative and believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. The conclusion also states that it is appropriate, with time, to work out the relevant legislation in general, to refuse to impose age restrictions. This is also supported by our committee. Based on the Committee's discussion, our committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that the bill be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u36	Let's sign up for the performance. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, this bill offers the government the right path and certainly needs to be supported. That there is such a problem in society, we have talked to you in this session room many times. And the government might want to take this step, and we certainly support it, to continue that direction. And on the way to abolish the age limit for all categories of public service posts as well as service in local self-government. I would like to remind you of the Constitutional Court's repeated decisions on this matter. And in particular, and in particular, recall the Constitutional Court's decision quite recently on the proposed changes to higher education, where it was proposed to limit the Rector's age in this position to 65 years. The Constitutional Court found this to be unconstitutional. In general, this bill has a good analysis of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, which is based on two articles of the Constitution -- 43rd and 38th. In particular, article 38 of the Constitution directs the requirement of equal access for citizens to government services and services in local governments. Dear colleagues! This bill is absolutely not contrary to pension reform. He can't contradict it. Because while working longer, a person has more experience. A person who works longer may pass on this experience. And I want to remind you again, today, please note that there is a sharp shortage of government personnel and as in tax administration, as in the government administrations that we have today. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to vote in favour of this bill. It would be possible to vote in general, for it is also very brief if there were no objections.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u38	Yes, please, Radovec. None. Bondarenko Volodymyr, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u40	Please, Bodnar Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u41	Olga Bondar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Here my colleagues are offering to remind us of Brezhnev's story. But I want to remind you of a very close history with Mr. Azarov. Not so long ago, we were looking at the Azarov Bill in the last vocation, when he was 60 years old, and then we were thinking about how to employ him in further service. Today’s bill, again, is made in the name of Mr. Azarov, who still needs to be employed because this year he is 65 years old. Regrettably, this bill is a powerful example of how, in the form of reform of the public service, the authorities are trying to protect their own interests for individual high-ranking people. The question of the marginal age of public service was repeatedly discussed in the session hall. During the adoption of the new edition, I would like to remind you, as it was, of the public service, that you and I decided to give up the mechanism of continuing to serve as one that has signs of corruption and demeaning civil servants. Next, we set a age limit of 65 with you. That's why this bill is being tried today. After that, considering that the new edition of the Public Service Act will take effect as of January 1, 2013, we are now going to make a transitional little car with you so that someone there can be very comfortable with the name of one. If you now call it a bill that refers to the deletion of certain articles in the Timoshenko Criminal Code, and you say it's the name of one person's bill. So why are you now going to adopt the Azarov bill? The government has decided to allow government officials in the first category to continue in the public service for a living, otherwise this cannot be treated. In principle, there will be a nursery where people will take their seats because of the machinery used to stop their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u42	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u43	The bill is not foreseen. The proposed novels contradict the Constitution of Ukraine and establish inequality and discrimination among civil servants. Please do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u44	Pavlenko Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u45	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please pass the word to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u46	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u47	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! It's just been the right word or the term "discrimination," but it's the opposite. Discrimination, and more importantly, immorality and anachronism are restrictions on the right to work. Such restrictions are not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. No one can determine by age whether this person can work or cannot work. It's nonsense, it's direct discrimination. And I'm very sorry that, in due course, my colleague Sherschun and I had a bill to prevent the discrimination of the elderly and the elderly from being broken down in this session room. This is unfair to those who are able to work, who want to work, and, above all, to be qualified for education. I'd like to talk about the next one. There is an article in the Constitution, article 38 of the Constitution, which makes it absolutely clear that there is a direct requirement for citizens to have equal access to public service and service in local self-government. Some people here are yelling, not understanding that people who have experience are much more than you've done for the country in the first place. Second of all, they're much more honest. Thirdly, much less corrupt. And fourthly, they're all giving themselves to this case. That is why we need to support this legislative initiative, the one that Vjacheslav Viktorovich took, the right legislative initiative. But no one can limit the possibility of working by age not only for first - category workers but also for employees of the entire public service and local self - government. The National Party faction will vote unanimously for this legislative initiative. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u48	Chaplain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your word. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction will not support this bill from the following. Today, young experts are far too much in the direction of government, including in the field of government. And we need to update the footage, no matter what categories these frames belong to. Today, we may have stopped. And we need to break this joint together somehow. We don't think it's necessary to make decisions where not all categories of citizens are going to be equal, but only civil servants in the first category. However, in 2013, such a rule will be implemented by virtue of the adopted State Service Act. This is the position of the group.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u50	Vyziewsky, faction of our Ukraine, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u51	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". I would like to remind the great constitutionalists in this room that the Constitution works for all Ukrainian citizens and should also work for all civil servants, not just for the civil servants of the first category. I understand that the Party of Regions has missed the times when we had a shoreline, and when all the pensioners fell asleep in it. I think that this government wants us to continue to offer the Party of Regions behind its honorable head, Yanukovic. I don't think Ukrainians will be able to solve the issue that the government is supposed to have in the Ukrainian government for a long time. I think there's going to be a very fast time where those young, shrewd, captivating people in Ukraine are going to be out of high offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u52	Question completed. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues, we can either pass the law here or we can't. I see the need for it in the second reading, because there's only one sentence. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian State Service Act. [[Registration number 9764]] Please vote. [[11:33:14]] For 251 Decision taken. There is a denial, unfortunately, in general. We are considering a bill on the basis of the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the specificities of investment activity in its territory. [[Registration number 8763]] The committee's offering a reduced procedure, please support. [[11:33:51]] For 225 Offer supported. Reported by Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Platoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on the Basics for the Development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Specificities of Investment Activities in Its Territory was designed to carry out the Ukrainian President's mandate of 12 August 2010. The purpose of the bill is to create an enabling environment for the integrated and balanced development of autonomy as an integral part of Ukraine, to make effective use of resource potential and to attract additional investment resources. The bill created favourable conditions for additional investment in strategically important development for Crimea. It is proposed to establish a special regime for the introduction of investment activities in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, including the suggestion that investors or owners register investment projects that will be implemented in strategically important developmental routes for Crimea. Registration and priority areas for investment projects should be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The preparation and implementation of investment projects in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea will be carried out in accordance with the single window principle. With regard to the characteristics of investment taxation, under the Law, operators may be exempt from the payment of their duties for import operations into Ukraine of equipment and equipment that are used in the implementation of registered investment projects and are not produced in Ukraine. In addition, the bill proposes to designate the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea as a licensing body for certain activities in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. With a view to regulating the rules mentioned in section 6 of the Transitional Regulations Act, relevant changes are made to the laws in force, including the Land Code, the Investment Act of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the licensing of certain types of economic activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u54	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u55	Please adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on the Basics for the Development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the peculiarities of investing in its territory and further developing it, taking into account the proposals and observations made by the National Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u56	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexei Vitaliyovich Plonikov
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u57	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 20 September 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Basics for the Development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Specificity of Investment Activities in Its Territory, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, respectively Registration No. 8763. [[Protocol No. 70]] The purpose of the bill is to create an enabling environment for the integrated and balanced development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the efficient use of resource potential and investment. In addition, there are a number of positive developments that the Cabinet of Ministers expects from this bill. And the Committee on Economic Policy as a whole has been positive about what is being proposed. In turn, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by its conclusion of 29 July 2011, believes that the bill is to be rejected. During the debate at the Committee on Economic Policy, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on the foundations for the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the characteristics of investment activities in its territory, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u58	Let's sign up for the performance. Oleg Zarubinski. Prepare Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u59	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear, honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, I understand that there will be a serious enough discussion on this bill and, frankly, there is a basis for this discussion, including which gives rise, including the conclusion of scientific and scientific management. Well, in particular, without denying the establishment of legislation, at the legislative level of the features of investment activity in Crimea, it believes, and evidently correctly, that the operation of the corresponding money should be limited in time. This is necessary if it is a legislative act, if it is a serious document. I think we should consider that. The second point that I've also drawn attention to is the tenth position at the conclusion of the scientific and expert administration, where it's suggested that a number of institutions in Crimea be freed from paying public duties. You know, when we set up the characteristics of the investment program, the investments in the Crimea, it's all clear, but when it comes to specific authorities, which are essentially similar in other subjects of the Ukrainian State, in other administrative and territorial units, that might raise some questions. On the other hand, I think the ideas that are set out in this bill, especially given the potential, the resource potential, the recreational potential of the Crimea, should not be rejected. I think we could support, really, in the first reading of this bill, but these positions that I said, and some of the other ones need to be removed in order not to be a discriminatory document in relation to other administrative and territorial units, in other words, in order to contribute to the development of Crimea, but in this case not at the expense of it. not at the expense of other areas. or the areas of Ukraine. In the first reading, we can support it, in general, we can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u60	Anatoly Matvienko, faction of Our Ukraine, prepare Teriochina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u61	Ukrainian Sobor Platform, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, the question raised today at the rostrum of the Supreme Council is extremely relevant. In general, the question of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is a question of Ukraine's future. And when it comes to the urgency of the problem, it must be said that it is a certain Achilles ’ fifth, which all who do not want Ukraine to be an independent, sovereign State, are making good use of. And the weakness of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is one of the lowest standards of living in this autonomy, and it is a tool of pressure, shock and influence, if you want a tool of speculation, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea today has to be a completely different situation. As far as I'm concerned, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is going to dominate and be an avant-garde for the development of regions today. We'll take down all the problems if we can get the highest standard of living there, the best level of investment, the best level of protection. And so you can conceptually support today if you take the initiative to adopt this bill. Despite the fact that, in fact, this bill has a lot of questionable novelties, such as those that do not distinguish, the absence of a delimitation of the powers of the executive body of the Crimea AR to its own and delegated bodies, which are in the law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. What's strange is that the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine can define the Council of Ministers of Autonomy as an organ of licensing that doesn't fit in at all. I support the fact that there are very many problems with the State Customs Act and this does not fit into the Constitution or the unity of power. Answer, Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u62	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u63	Adam Ivanovich, let me finish. Is this a matter of the Cabinet, or is this a matter of the Council of Ministers of Autonomy? It seems to me that this is the matter of the Cabinet and the Supreme Council. And that's why this law has to be worked out and only in this case can it be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u64	Terjehohin Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u65	Andrew Sanchenko will tell you about this corrupt law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u66	Good afternoon, Sanchenko, BUT is Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I am reading the draft law, trying to understand what is lacking in the current power. The Crimea has been ruled independently by the Party of the Regions for 10 years. As a result of the so-called elections, you have a vast majority in the Crimea Supreme Council, in all city and district councils. The Council of Ministers, all heads of administration, mayors, heads of departments, central authorities are yours. What prevents the Crimea from flourishing today and the criminals from making it happy? Unfortunately, 10 years of your reign have been years of looting Crimea and impoverishment of criminals. What has been happening in the Crimea for the past two years is not to be called the full criminalization of the region. A parallel legal criminal vertical of power has been formed, in each mayor, in the administration, in the south-coastal settlement of a public or state enterprise, so-called “watchers”. Traveling and land transfer have become a common everyday matter. The volume of smuggling through the feudosian oil base, Crimean ports now exceeds Crimea's budget. And you want to legitimize this smuggling only to expand and increase this flow. The so-called elite of the country, accustomed to stealing billions of dollars on Euro sites, is horribly thinking about how they can live on if they have to steal millions after Euro? In this regard, legislation is being prepared for mega-corruption projects related to the construction of the western coast of Crimea. And today, despite the scattered lands, the unspoiled lands, there's LCX -- everyone under the ridge is taking and telling them that there's just going to be a garden town. Before that, however, they plan to spend the Euro-proportional funds to build the territories, to concentrate the land on their Cypriot companies, and then to sell the investment projects already budgeted on their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u67	Chaplain, please. Dear colleagues, don't be abusing yourself, because others also want to speak. Please, Chaplain. Tell the press your accusations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u68	Honorable colleagues, respected citizens. The MP's Reforms for the Future. You know, when we look at this bill at a faction meeting, we've come to the conclusion: good ideas, in principle, expressed in the President's mandate to give the ARC territory a normal status and a normal development vector for additional investment in the development of territories, but the performers seem to have gone a little overboard. In our view, today's document cannot be supported even in the first reading because of the bright ideas expressed in this bill on the possibility of developing a strategy, on government and targeted programs to support any investment projects in the territory, to create a development fund, and so forth, even to provide certain benefits for importing groups and goods, is, in principle, a normal phenomenon. However, the way this is done. Well, you can't break 137 and 138 articles of the Constitution. Well, you can't give rights that violate, in principle, and they have signs of expanding the constitutional rights of those territories. Well, you can't put those or other territories in the territory of Ukraine in unequal conditions. I'll remind you, apart from the ARC there are other areas, Zaporizka, Odessa, Žitomirska and so on. Well, you can't talk about combining it into a single document, trying to combine the basis for the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the specificities of the conduct of investment activities in the same area, because this is regulated by completely different legislative acts. Nine laws that are in force today should be amended accordingly, starting with the Cabinet of Ministers Act of Ukraine and ending with the law on the priority development of the Crimea port. You can't do things like that. Not enough of what is a government guarantee for investment? Let me remind you, from 2005 to 2009, Ukraine has been inundated with nothing-strengthed government guarantees of investment projects that so far hang as debts that can't be accounted for by an active government. Nor can such authority be given to these administrations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u69	Thank you. Neckish, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, I think there is no point in redrafting the bill under discussion. It will be useful to look at the context in which we are looking at it. Every one of you who works in the districts knows what difficult conditions people are living in. And if we are to overcome these difficulties and help our people to live better, we are obliged to seek, without fail, effective ways to stimulate the economy. Oftentimes it was said that funds could not be redistributed indefinitely. They need to be earned. And the proposed bill affords such an opportunity. It is unacceptable when a region as resource-rich as Crimea has a grant budget. Autonomy has everything to do with earning its own money and sustaining the execution of Ukraine. And Crimea has something to offer investors. There are already 200 investment projects. However, these opportunities have not yet been realized. And not because they don't want it in Crimea, but because they can't because there's no legislative field. And in our power to make it right. In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to the crucial point, in my view, of the moment when this bill became the law to allow the mass of the social problems of one and a half million citizens to be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u71	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I'll put a bill to the vote. In doing so, I report that whoever does not vote for it will be closed at the Crimea in the summer. The proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the specificities of investment activity in its territory is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8763]] Please vote. [[11:50:34]] For 243 Copy that. Please, by the factions. The Party of Regions – 183, "BUT" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 4, Communists – 25, National Party – 20, reforms – did not vote, non-fractional – 11. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the state registration of foreign investments. [[Registration number 9676]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:51:22]] For 216 Offer supported. Reported by Paulenko Vladimir Petrovich, Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade. Get ready for Platoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, you have before you a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation regarding the state registration of foreign investments. The aim of the changes is to establish clear legislation on the terms of foreign investment registration and to improve the conditions for investment. The bill proposes to supplement article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Foreign Investment Regime with provisions on the definition of the term of State registration of foreign investments and to amend article 395 of the master code of Ukraine and article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Foreign Investment Regime, which relate to the determination of the deadline for the submission of documents to investors for the State registration of foreign investments within 30 calendar days of actual investment, removal, repatriation of such investments or change of the owner of foreign investments. In view of the above, I propose to support the draft Law amending certain laws on State registration of foreign investments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u73	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexei Vitaliyovich Plonikov
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u74	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 7 February 2012, Protocol No. 79, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the state registration of foreign investments, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to establish clear rules of legislation for the registration and simplification of foreign investment by increasing the deadline for submission of documents by investors. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine finds that, as a result of the first reading, the bill can be adopted on the basis of the following comments and suggestions. The Committee on Economic Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the state registration of foreign investments, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted on the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u75	Let's sign up for the performance. Andrew Pavlovsky, BUTT. Prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u76	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please pass the word to Sergio Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u77	Please, Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u78	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know, when we're discussing every bill submitted by the government, we're always looking for money, and where's the money, in these bills? So this is a project from a series of past projects. What is he talking about? It's about simplifying the registration of foreign investments. I can tell you that I am the author of the 1993 decree. Then this project, this decree was adopted, because there were no national investments, there were only foreign ones. There were guarantees to prevent the State from requisitioning these foreign investments. Remember what happened next? First the free economic zones, then the Livellis, the feudal oil terminals, and so on. Why do we need this law today?Oh, my God! Since, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, I remind you, this is a matter of full equality between the status of national investment, Ukrainian investment and foreign investment. Once again, this law will simply lead to the legalization of new lilies, including in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Because you've read in the past that there's a border opening and there's some regional licenses for any investment projects. So our faction, on another attempt at corruption and tax evasion, will not vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u79	Ivan Popescu, faction of the regions. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u80	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. My fellow dignitaries, I want to pay attention to just one moment, take out all kinds of populist statements there and so on. How is the issue of simplification resolved? Simply by increasing the deadline for the submission of documents to investors for the registration of foreign investments to 30 calendar days after their actual introduction. This is the main point, and we need to pay attention to that. And second moment. If someone sold, traded property, and so on, it should also be registered and ordered. The faction of the regions will be in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u82	Dear National Deputies! When I heard Sergey Teryochin speak now, I wanted to support him, because he's absolutely right. Now that I've heard that the faction of the regions will support this law that has passed the government, all I want to say is, "It's not the Donbass people's fault that power has seized such an ace!" Because of this, this law is simply not needed, as is an aces that governs the state. What may be foreign investments in a land where the usurped authorities, where the law does not work, where more than 150 Berkuts rushed to entrepreneurs at five o’clock yesterday morning, and this happened in Kiev, in the Right District. What are the investments that people can make when people turn and write, "Please intervene in the situation that has arisen, the remains of the Pristya gang, namely, Lyschenko, by the name of "Licha", who took his place; the acting deputy of the Kyiv Council and the associate with the nickname "prosecutor" have created a new gang that the head of the Right Administration has entered and so on." What may be the investments that we are talking about when we fail to comply with the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 26 January this year, which states that political prisoners should be released and written by name: both Timoshenko and Lucenko and others? What could be foreign investors? Forget it. So the Party of Regions has to think about how to implement today all of what the Council of Europe wrote, and then we'll talk about investment. This law of support is absolutely unnecessary, just like this government, it has to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u83	One minute, Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u84	The MP's Reforms for the Future. Dear colleagues, indeed, there are certain positions in this bill that need further work and in this we agree with the Committee on Economic Policy and the conclusions of scientific and scientific management. In particular, in our view, the state registration by an outdated method is archaic by recording in the accounting log. The more optimal form of such investment registration could have been, for example, the introduction of relevant information into the register of foreign investments. Yet this law is needed in general because it improves the conditions of investment for foreign investors. So we have always supported such things and will support them in contrast with those involved in so - called special operations and political crackdowns. Get back to work, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u85	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt the new Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the state registration of foreign investments. [[Registration number 9676]] Please vote. [[12:00:51]] For 256 Decision taken. There's a break to 12 o'clock for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We'll continue the morning session. The draft Law on the State-wide targeted social programme for the protection of populations and territories against technological and natural emergencies for 2012 - 2016 is under consideration. [[Registration number 9542]] The committee suggests that we consider the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:29:53]] For 158. Offer supported. Reported by Vitaly Petrovich Booth, Deputy Minister of Emergency Situations. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u87	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! To implement the decree of the President of Ukraine, the Ministry of Emergency Situations developed a draft Ukrainian Law on a State-wide targeted social programme for the protection of populations and territories from technological and natural emergencies for 2012 - 2016. The programme includes measures aimed at countering the most dangerous technological and natural threats, such as the engineering protection of the country’s territories from the effects of displacement and other destructive phenomena, sub-warming caused by the conservation of mines, the rehabilitation of areas contaminated by military activities, and the cleansing of the country’s territory from explosive objects. Measures are being taken to eliminate the effects of manufacturing activities in state enterprises: "Solotvinska meladnik", Gorlovski Chemical Plant, West Enterprises and VAT "Radical" in Kiev, – conservation of Dombrovsky's career and the VAT moat "Oriana" in Kalushi, as well as the elimination of the environmental and social consequences of long-term oil and ozokerite production in Borislav Lviv district. There's a lot of attention in the program about the proper readiness of response systems to target actions, the implementation of material and technical resupply of administrations and civil protection forces, hydrometallurgical security, the improvement of rapid response in an emergency and the reconstruction of the centralized population notification system. It should be noted that not all the existing problems of natural and technological security in Ukraine have been reflected in the project because there are budgetary constraints. The Ministry knows about them and takes steps to address them in other programs. The five - year funding for the program is more than 12 billion dollars, of which more than 10 billion dollars are at the expense of the state budget. I want to assure you that the adoption of the programme will have a positive impact on ensuring the necessary level of safety of the population, protecting the territories from threats of a natural and technological nature, improving the effectiveness of a single state civil protection system. I'd like to support you, distinguished national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u88	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u89	Dear fellow members of the People's Parliament, the Supreme Council is being reviewed by a draft Ukrainian Law on a State-wide targeted social programme for the protection of the population and territories against technological and natural emergencies for 2012-2016. The aim of the bill, as has already been pointed out, is to reduce the risks of emergency, increase the safety of the population and protect the territory from natural and technological threats. The implementation of the bill will have an impact on the spending of the state budget and local budgets. Funding will be carried out at the expense of the state and local budgets within the expenditure foreseen by the principal budget manager for the year in question. Responsible for the tasks and actions of this program, as well as other sources provided for by law. The amount of funding should be specified each year during the preparation of the country’s State Budget project for the year in question. Over the course of five years, funding is estimated to be about 12 billion dollars [220 million dollars]. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that if the bill was to be adopted as a law in connection with its impact on the spending of the State budget of Ukraine, it was necessary to implement it in accordance with article 28 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. The Committee on European Integration concluded that the bill did not belong to the priority areas of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation. The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Development proposes that the results of the first reading be taken into account on the basis of observations. The main scientific and expert office also made a number of comments, but it believes that the bill should be adopted in the first reading. All comments made can be taken into account in the second reading of the national program. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u90	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u91	decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be supported on the basis. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Vladimir Caplienko. Prepare for Argentinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u93	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! You know, the bill certainly deserves your attention. And from the very beginning, I'm going to say that we can't turn off the microphone when I can't complete that we're going to support this bill. We'll vote him in full and tell him why. Of course, the work set out in this bill is too large, in all directions and scattered throughout the country, and deserves attention. And we think it's quite a problem that hasn't been brought up for decades. And, indeed, and the coastline of the sea, and some protective buildings, and some enterprises that they consider, and they get, should get a sanction, they waited a long, long time. However, there is also a note of why this bill, for example, was not voted in full today, not only on the basis but also on the whole. That's what's important. The next question. In what way, and according to what methodology, will these projects be developed, or will they be implemented? There are many common things in this bill, such as the expected results, the direction, some efficiency, some programs. What do they mean? A clearly defined amount of money to be spent. But I would like to remind you that money does not always come after a clearly defined, interconnected program. So that's exactly what this bill doesn't have. I mean, it seems to us that this bill needs to be taken for processing and, most importantly, to prepare for the second reading, just to the performers who are going to work with it afterwards. The next question is the justification of the financial costs and the necessary expertise to be carried out in such a bill. And the last. It's called a social project. Social, as far as I can remember, is living standards, supporting unemployment, new jobs, social levels, and so forth. I mean, it doesn't fit this law at all. But we will support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u94	Arzhevtin Stanislav, please. Prepare Lithuania's Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u95	Dear national deputies, indeed, can support this program in the first reading, but the second reading needs to be adjusted. I'm going to give you examples of the Zakarpatsky region, which is almost every year experiencing extraordinary situations of both natural and technological nature. For example, in 12 billion dollars, Carpathian problems account for only two percent. From the 31st program, the area's problems are only seen in two programs. For example, there are 124 million in the section "Restraint Protection." Yes, indeed, 224 families will be grateful that they are removed from a safe area and will be rehabilitated. But of course that's not enough, because twice as many of these troubled families on Zakartat. The Beehives section is actually zero, although we often hear rivers spill, especially the Tisa River on Zacarpatta. There are 140 million in the section "Restoration of Areas". Indeed, this is enough to preserve the ninth and eighth sloth mines. But in order to do that, to level the environmental situation in the city itself, that's not enough. In the section "Improving the Reef Control System of Hydrospouse" is also a zero. What about Tereble-Rieka GES between the village of Kolocava and the village of Wilshan, which has been virtually uncapitalized since 1956? How to deal with the negative consequences of many years of storage. In the Coast? What about the male polycombinant? What about the wastes of the Great March woodshed in Rakhovščina? In general, 200 thousand tons of toxic substances, or toxic chemicals, are now being stored under inventory in Zakarpat. 121 companies dump their sewage directly into the river, and among other things, Carpathians struggle to make it a good tourist destination. So I think we have similar problems in other areas of the Carpathian region. Therefore, the first reading should be supported, and the second, of course, should be seriously worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u96	Yuri Litwin. Prepare Sergey Gordianka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u97	The faction of the People's Party. Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u98	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u99	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The key problem in the proposed bill is to ensure better security, greater security, universal security of the population. Indeed, if we look at this bill because of the prism of the list of directions that the authors of the legislative initiative are trying to implement by implementing this program, there might be a discussion here. And obviously it will be, in preparing for the second reading, I think that representatives, national deputies, representatives of different regions will be able to refine, correct the list itself. But I would like to pay attention to the concept itself, to the program itself. The positive thing is that the authors are trying to systematically approach emergency prevention. Today's world, it's a banal thing, but it's true, it's a world of technological catastrophes. Progress does more than just lead to positive things, and we understand that very well. Progress also poses the greatest danger to the population, to the general population, from an environmental perspective, and, above all, to a technological issue. I noted that in the explanatory note, the emphasis was not so much on eliminating the consequences of emergencies but on preventing them. For when we have been in the country for many years and not just years, but decades, we are responding to extraordinary situations, it is really responding to what has happened. At a time when the list of problems, the severity of problems, experts know in advance. Obviously, if you really accepted such a program for five years, you could save, including saving, by spending less on preventing an emergency situation from occurring than then spending billions on eliminating it. I therefore believe that this bill can be supported in the first reading. And his first advantage is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u100	Sergey Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u101	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. It is always easier to prevent than then to cope with the consequences of various technological disasters. Therefore, Ukrainian Communist Party deputies understand and support the bill in the first reading. But I would also like to say something about the problems of the Poltava region. And I would like to point out that let us seriously consider what we can do to strengthen the Cremencucci reservoir, which is constantly eating the fertile lands of Poltachland and threatening some of the population. Let's see what we're going to do about prevention in areas of hydrocarbon production. We often see that when certain problems occur there, these problems are absolutely serious for the local communities. The question of the disposal of toxic chemicals that have accumulated in large quantities. And their disposal today is an extremely acute problem for Poltavščina, although the local authorities are working actively in this direction with help and central authorities. But I especially wanted to draw attention to the problem of preaching. That's what the reporter said. Practically destroyed, we haven't done anything about the announcements in 20 years. All the technical stuff that was, it's already worn out to extremes and it's virtually not working even the basic wire we don't have to replace, because they've just been out of order for 20 years. Let's take a very serious look at the problem where the state can't fix the relationship between energy and radios when these systems are on one base, and it's the subject of a serious disaster for the regions, because their war leads to what goes wrong and doesn't come out of the notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u102	Vladimir Bondarenko, one minute. And Popescu, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u103	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Well, unfortunately, we're talking very deeply about this huge problem -- a few speeches in one minute and that's it. This is the fault of our Parliament, which is probably incurable already in this warehouse. But we need to develop documents, carefully read them, as a minimum, to be able to express ourselves. That's the first one. The other one. This program suffers from one of the biggest defects, and there are no people there. Where are the niggers on this program, their problems? Here they returned with their backs or somewhere else to Yanukovich and did the right thing because today’s Party of Regions does not think about people. There's 12 billion written down here, well, I know what it's written for. Some objects have been selectively uploaded in their future districts, and you want 12 billion of them to be burned in this year’s version of the program. And then no one thinks because it's short-lived. So I'm going to support it in the first reading, but we're going to do everything we can to change it, make it a really complex program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u104	Please, Ivan Popescu, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u105	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. My fellow dignitaries, I would like to point out that the main purpose of the bill is to reduce consistently the risk of technological and natural emergencies, increase the level of safety of the population, protect the territory from their consequences by ensuring the continued development of the domestic economy. At the same time, this will bring Ukrainian standards closer to European standards. But most importantly, it will contribute to the arrival of funds in the region and to counter-removals, both on shore-stressing and on the process of announcing. But for the transcript, I would like to point out that we still have to make some adjustments to the list. And for example, we need to take into account the coastline in the Chernivecko region, such as the Siret Rivers in the Glubecko and Strážinetsky areas, the Prut River in Herceivsky and especially in the Novoselice region: in the villages of Magala, Tarasovci, Mamaliga, and others. I said that for the transcript, so that when preparing for the second reading, they would take these moments into account. The faction of the Party of Regions is going to be in favour, because we're in favour of the constant development of our domestic economy, and we're in favour of European environmental standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u106	Question completed. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill on a state-wide targeted social programme to protect the population and territories from technological and natural emergencies for 2012 - 2016. Please vote. [[12:46:54]] For 311 The programme, i.e. the draft Law, was adopted as a basis. We are considering the draft Law on the Approval of the General Target Programme for the Development of Water Management and Environmental Recovery of the Dniper Basin for the period up to 2020. [[Registration number 9584]] The proposal is to consider the simplified procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:47:32]] For 218. Supported. The head of the State Water Agency, Vasil Andriyovich Stasuk, reports. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, present! You are considering the draft Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the National Target Programme for the Development of Water Management and Environmental Recovery of the Dnipra Basin until 2020, developed by the State Department, together with the Ministry of Nature, to carry out the tasks of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Government. The aim of the programme is to identify the main orientations of public policy in the field of water management in order to meet the needs of the population and sectors of the national economy in water resources, conservation and reproduction. Restoring the role of meliorated lands in the food security of the state. Preventing and eliminating harmful effects of water. The program will address urgent problems related to the primary measures of flood protection, environmental recovery, and restoration of Dniper as the main water artery of Ukraine. Providing ecologically sustainable living conditions for the population, firstly providing centrally water supply to rural areas, restoring irrigation and rebuilding domestic networks. The bill is designed to take into account the positive experience of European countries in the implementation of integrated water resources management according to the pool principle. The programme sets out basic measures for flood protection at the legislative level. We realize that from an economic and social point of view, it is better to prevent an emergency than then to eliminate it. In general, the urgent needs of water - related problems amount to more than 100 billion dollars. However, account needs to be taken of the problems with government budget expenditure, so the overall funding of the programme is reduced to 46 billion dollars, only to take immediate priority measures. This resulted in a redistribution of expenditure and a reduction in the financial burden on the state budget. Attention has been paid to transborder water objects, where active rustling processes are observed that may lead to a change in the state border and the loss of part of the territory of Ukraine. Thus, the implementation of the program will allow.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u108	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u109	Please support the Ukrainian National Program Act in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u110	Thank you, Vasil Andryovich. Please, Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Well, it seems to me that, at last, from this high rostrum, we can say, to the fact that in our country, in the end, environmental policy has become a priority policy of the Ukrainian state. And that's probably the right thing to do, because today we're looking at a really, really important question about the conservation of drinking water itself. The program focuses primarily on the conservation of our nation's water resources and the provision of quality drinking water to our citizens. The programme provides for the development of land irrigation to improve the ecological condition of irrigation and desiccants. First-line provision of centralized water supply to rural areas using imported water Protecting rural and agricultural areas from water damage and complex flood protection of the Ukrainian river basin, ecological recovery of the Dniper basin, and improvement of drinking water quality. The Committee on Rules, the Scientific and Experimental Administration, the Committee on European Integration have sent their comments and are proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee on Budgetary Policy supports the bill in its first reading. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting considered the bill proposing to support it in its first reading. Thank you for your attention, and please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u112	Shall we vote? Please sign up. Glasunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u113	The aim of the law is to revitalize state water policy to increase quality water security for the population and economic sectors. Optimization of water consumption, protection of areas and populated areas against water damage, conservation and management of water resources on the basis of integrated water resources management and adaptation of water legislation and EU legislation. I would like to draw attention to the following points, which need to be taken into account when working on the second reading. It is worth noting that the programme is to be implemented in two stages: the first stage by 2015, the second stage by 2016-2020. In the project, these steps are neither fixed nor separate. Notes call for performance indicators. They're too general in nature, they don't predict indicators of this effectiveness, they don't give any idea of any concrete success in this sphere. Therefore, when you are working on the second reading, please take note of the comments. The faction of the Party of the Regions will support the first reading of the adoption of the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u114	Please, Bolura, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u115	May I have a word with Mikola Tomenka?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u116	Please, Mikola Tomenko. Get ready, Luschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I've heard this optimistic thesis that for the Ukrainian authorities, environmental direction has become a priority. To put it mildly, it is an exaggeration. Because when you drive across Ukraine and you look at the state of the water, forest management, and especially after administrative reform, that we already have a factory fund, not management, but there are a few people, and basically there is a list that's still privatizing for this year, I think it's not even an exaggeration, but it's going to be a contempt for the real environment situation to say that priority is for the state. My second thesis. I don't understand the logic and order of the government's decision when, at first, the Cabinet of Ministers approves the concept of the General Targeted Water Management Programme for 2020 as a whole, and then we're offered a state programme for approval, where somehow the environmental recovery of the Dniepra basin turns out to be something more important and special. So if it's a general concept, obviously this program should apply to both Dniper and Tissy and Dniester and everything else. I mean, I think logic would have to be that way. We had to approve the state programme at the parliamentary level, and on the basis of it, the government had to develop, fund and so forth. Another thesis. Or the third thesis. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask everyone in charge of our water management not to repeat the disaster when they rescued Concho-Sap and the property of Ukrainian high-ranking officials and sent all the water down to the Kyiv watershed, and all the fish were accounted for as a unit. You don't have to. Fish and humans must be saved, not given to high officials. So I'd like the government to take an extremely responsible approach, because there's a lot of talk going on. You know, it's not a simple situation right now with the conservation of fish in the Crimea Falls. The water fell, so to speak, and so on. It's a very important task to think about. And the final thesis. Of course, and we're planning, I think the Supreme Council has responded. That our institutions that care about protection are today. Because we have fish inspection today, it's a poacher's roof, and those who do forest farming, they're in the middle of hunting. That we have power, it turns out, is a greater enemy of ecology than the common people. So I think, in principle, it's the right idea, but we have to bring it into line with the government program and financially ensure that it's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u118	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u119	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the Dnipro River Basin is an extremely large and valuable resource for the people of Ukraine. It needs to be managed in an economic way, as our brothers in Belarus, for example, do. The proposed National Target Programme for the Development of Water and Environmental Health of the Dniepra River Basin for the period up to 2020 is exactly what it foresees. It defines the main orientations of public water policy to meet the needs of the population and the national economy in water resources, the conservation and distribution of water resources, the introduction of an integrated water management system based on the pool principle, the restoration of the role of meliorated land in the food and resource security of the State. And for the Chernigiv region, for example, there are perspective issues such as land-melioration, water-based meliorative complex, to be used as it is, because it is now unclear whose hands it is in; the reconstruction and modernization of engineering infrastructure of meliorative systems with the creation of comprehensive technological complexes, protection against submerging agricultural conditions and population sites within meliorated areas, construction, reconstruction and capital repair of shore-building facilities and so on. So I support the proposal to adopt the proposed bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u120	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u121	Vladimir Karpuk. Please give the word to the true patriot Stanislaw Argewittin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u122	Please, it's Arjevitin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u123	I thank the People's Deputy Karpuk. We will, of course, vote in favour of this decree. I'm not going to tire out the room right now with the numbers and the problems that are in the Zakartat region, really, in this area. But what I would like to say right now is that the reporter, because of the lack of time, didn't say that there's a separate chapter in this program that's dedicated to doing appropriate protective work at the Tisa River Basin in the Zakartat region. I think it's important if we're being listened to by people who live in this region and, in fact, the program provides for both the construction and reconstruction of protective flood dams, there is also the construction and reconstruction of shores in the Zakarta region, there is also cleaning, clearing of those waterholes, those rivers that are now, construction, of course, different hydrotechnical structures, etc. So, of course, I'll make some suggestions for second reading to correct the numbers and reflect, really, the real problems that are in the Zacarpathian area. And in general, this one. This program really needs to be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u124	Yes, a resident of the Dniepra Vaschuk swimming pool, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u125	Adam Ivanovich, resident of the Stir pool, the Volin River. I would like to draw attention to one of the main tasks of this program, namely, meeting the need for quality water resources for the population. From my point of view, there is no need to define the standards and standards of drinking water for the population of Ukraine. And we won't do that in this program if we don't. And we have an appropriate institution, and it's very important, and the faction supports this law, which provides for the functioning of meliority systems, both irrigation and drying. In its time, huge government funds have been invested in the drying system of the Wallin Police, and today it requires constant support, reconstruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, the unanimous support of the program tells us that we are now amicably voting for the adoption of the Law on the Approval of the State-wide Target Programme for the Development of Water Management and the Environmental Recovery of the Dniepra River Basin by 2020 as a basis. [[Registration number 9584]] Please vote. [[13:01:39]] For 319 It's a record vote for today. We haven't had one of those. We are considering a draft Act amending article 41 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility for violating labour law requirements]] [[Registration number 9616]] Suggested for a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:02:19]] For 221 Offer supported. First Deputy Minister of Social Policy Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich will report. Get ready, Savchenko Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u127	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Article 41 of the Code on Administrative Violations was designed to implement the Supreme Council's decree of 5 April 2011 on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on "The State of Retirement Reform and the Ways of Improvement". This is done with the aim of increasing responsibility for violating labour law requirements, full - time workers working with harmful and difficult working conditions under Lists 1 and 2 in jobs where they have not been carried out, or without timely job appraisals under working conditions, have lost their entitlement to age pensions on extended terms. In addition, managers of businesses and organizations refuse to issue documents on internships, benefits, and salaries required for the purpose of assigning a pension. Therefore, the draft Ukrainian law proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations by providing administrative responsibility for the timely conduct of job appraisals under working conditions, the untimely processing of internship documents, the salary required for the appointment of all types of pensions, or the provision of the necessary documents for the assignment of pensions that contain unreliable data. The implementation of the draft law does not provide for additional expenditure of the Pension Fund and the State Budget of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u128	Thank you. Head of the Committee for the Legislative Security of Savchenko Igor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u129	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! A bill amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Labour Law was considered by the Committee on Law Enforcement. [[Registration number 9616]] The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences with a view to establishing administrative responsibility for officials and citizens of entrepreneurial activities for the untimely conduct of job appraisals under working conditions, the untimely processing of internship documents, the wages required for the appointment of all types of pensions, the provision of internship documents or salary records containing incomplete or unreliable data. Having examined the bill, the committee considers it necessary to note that it does not define the powers of the authorities of state expertise, the conditions of work that are given the right to control the quality of job testing. Also, there is an unspecified mandate of the State Labour Inspectorate, which oversees and supervises the performance of job testing. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. At the same time, according to what has been said, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u130	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u131	with consideration given by the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. Please support, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u132	Yes, thank you. Shall we vote? Sign up. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Catherine Samuel, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u134	Thank you very much. Vasil Ivanovich, I want to ask you not to be distracted. But of course, we need a comprehensive bill that would be responsible for the pay in envelopes, because for young people, the probationary term is two months. Especially young people have worked hard to get out of things, so it's just a waste of people's work, and that's especially true for young people. I'm also very worried about how many on the Hersonian plains, on the field work, on the processing of vegetables, on them, on the harvesting congregation, how many people work. Slavery! And who, please tell me, is it legal or not? Is it the Pension Fund, or is it people's work, or is it budgeted? It's nothing. But it's a crime. A man suffers, and in the end, he never gets a decent pension. That is also true of a nation that does not receive money. So I wanted to wish the Ministry, personally to you as an expert, that we should work out a complex law and the employer should feel like a real employer, not a slave owner who treats people like they're his slaves. It's a wish for the department of profile. I'd like to take that wish into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u135	Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u136	Thank you. Please pass the word to the colleague of Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u137	Please, Andrew Pavlovsky. Get ready, Feduna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u138	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Honorary colleagues, honourable fellow countrymen, the bill proposes to establish, to strengthen the administrative responsibility of citizens involved in entrepreneurial activities for the timely conduct of job testing, for the timely issuance of internship documents and other necessary documents for the purpose of different types of pensions. However, I would like to point out that the bill does not clearly define the necessary powers of state authorities to exercise control and public oversight. I would also like to point out that in the last six months, the government of Azarov has already submitted a bill for the second time to the same article of the Code, which shows that there is no systematic approach to improving the legislation of the government of Azarov. And I'd like to point out that the Chief Research Administration is proposing that this law be sent for further development. At the same time, it is a valid bill. Because now there are cases where businesses have been bankrupted when they've been raided by raiders, which is complicated by law, and thousands of people then walk, collect reports, can't prove that they've been working there, that they have some background. Likewise, look, in the Donetsk region, the same trenches, illegal mines -- people work, and then they can't prove they worked, they got pensions. At the same time, we need a bill, but it's not long overdue, and so I think we need to join the findings of the science department. And the Timoshenko Block, the Fatherland, suggests that it be returned to the government for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u139	Fedun. None. Please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like us to turn to the government for one hundred times. You went to the Criminal Procedure Code, wrote that there were criminal offences and so on. Please find time to prepare the Code of Administrative Offences in a comprehensive manner. Don't do what you do, because look what the science department says. It points out that the government has submitted two bills for amendments to the same article. And of course, you are told: For four months, you offer to change the same article twice. This may make it impossible to apply such an article for a period of time. Well, aren't you ashamed to sign those papers, Mr. Azarov? Well, you know. I know that the most important task for you right now is to carry out your Human Rights Commissioner. I know that the most important task for you right now is to deliver the gas system, distribute the wagons. We've just passed a law where port privatisation is foreseen. You're going the right way, to prison, Mikolo Janovich. So I'd like you to know that these changes that are proposed in the first part of article 41, which provides for or submits the cited ones, quote: "documents that contain unreliable data," this is all provided for in the Criminal Code, 358 articles. So you realize that such a law cannot be passed. Instead, I draw the attention of the Government to the need to implement that decision by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which was adopted on 26 January 2012, which deals with freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u141	One minute, Caplienne.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u142	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this bill. And in the first reading, and even if he voted, and in general. We do not support the theory that the resolution of these problems in the Criminal Code, particularly as my colleague Karmazin said in 358 articles, cannot be foreseen in part one of the first 41 articles of the Code of Administrative Offences. In my community reception in the Gitomir region, dozens of appeals are made by citizens, when, I suppose, Tetjana Pavlovna, when citizens can't get their pension after retirement because of a failure or malicious failure and failure to provide documents to the pension service. That's something to be punished for. And I have not heard any criminal persecution on today’s day by persons who have committed such violations on the part of the employer. That's why you're hearing the offer. It needs to be implemented and enforced. The group will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u143	Oleg Zarubinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u144	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, if you reject the political paphos, there is only one question that is the essence of this bill. We can answer our own questions. Untimely performance of job testing under the conditions of work. Who suffers from this? This is primarily the case with employed workers. Who suffers from the untimely processing of documents on internships and wages. I personally have a lot of letters coming to me where people just complain about it. This is a violation, but today, administratively, these violations are not being punished. If it is proposed to increase the responsibility of those, those officials who have to perform their duties for people, for ordinary people, why should this be rejected, simply because it is someone other than the one who passed the bill. It's the right bill, we'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u145	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending article 41 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on responsibility for violating labour law requirements]] [[Bill 9616 registration number]] [[13:16:52]] For 271 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the List of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity. [[on civil aviation issues]] [[Registration number 9601]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:17:26]] For 212 Offer supported. Reported the head of the State Aviation Service, Anatoly Antonovich. Prepare the Extreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u146	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity, which is based on the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 May 2011 of a new edition of the Ukrainian Air Code. Paragraph 6 of Section XIX of the “Ending” and “Transitional Regulations” of the Ukrainian Air Code has been amended to part two of the second article, which defines the scope of the Ukrainian Act on Free Economic Activities, complementing it with the words “State control and surveillance in the field of civil aviation”. Thus, the Ukrainian Act on the List of Permits in Economic Activities does not extend to the issue of State control and surveillance in the field of civil aviation, and the documents issued by the State Service are the nature of the confirmation of compliance with the technical requirements to be followed by aviation entities with the aim of ensuring security in the field of civil aviation. In view of the above, it was necessary to develop a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activity, which provides for the exclusion of items 17, 31, 122, 131 from the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of agricultural activity. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u147	Thank you. A member of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Valérie Grigorovitch Krajny, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u148	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 10 January 2012 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Allowances in Economic Activities, issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to remove the gaps in legislation that have arisen as a result of the inadequacy of the Ukrainian law on the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity to the standards of the new Ukrainian Air Code. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, in their conclusion of December 26, 2011 to the bill, determined that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Documents in the Field of Economic Activities could be based on the following considerations and proposals. After considering the bill, members of the committee noted that the draft had been drafted and registered without complying with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council, namely that no comparative table had been given to the bill. The text of the bill requires substantial revision and further amendment to the Ukrainian Air Code, because the definition of a document that is not a document of a permissive nature, in paragraph 32 of the first part of article 1 of the Code, is not only an allogeneic one, but also one that conflicts with the second part of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Free Activities in the Field of Economic Activity, which refers to the fact that the law in question does not regulate arbitrary activities in the area of civil aviation. In addition, the Ukrainian Air Code should be supplemented at the legislative level by the rules governing the granting of permits in the area of civil aviation. Counting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u149	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u150	Taking into account the above-mentioned and in line with the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, the members of the Committee have adopted a decision: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activity, submitted by the Cabinet, submitted to the Supreme Council for its consideration and proposed that it be sent to the author for further work. [[No. 9601]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u151	Sign up. Yes, please, Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u152	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Please pass the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u153	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u154	Of course, the stated policy of reducing permissive procedures is positive, but let's look at this bill. What are we talking about? Like what? One of the points cancels the permits or the need to obtain permits for construction in the area of objects, land objects, and aircraft. These are airports, helicopter ranges. Well, as for the helipad, it's clear that those bowling alleys, those billiards, those baths, and everything else that's planned on a helicopter site that's supposed to be built for the President of Ukraine, he's now, if this law is passed, he won't need any agreement. But I'm interested in more serious aviation, not helicopters, because eventually these helicopters will fly with other people and mostly like tours over Kiev. And for example, in the airports where intensive construction is taking place today, it is not in agreement with anyone, especially in the airships of the Kyiv Airport, the Kiev Mechanical Plant, the Žuljani Airport, Borispol Airport, which cannot build high-rise buildings there, because it will put those who will fly in danger of landing or rising, first, of destroying this object, and, secondly, of killing themselves. So I don't think you can record any problems that involve having to take permission to build in airports' parachutes. And here's what we're going to do. I think there are many other things that involve, for example, irregular flights. Today, irregular flights are carried out in Ukraine by small aircraft, many other corporate aircraft. If we do not accept such permission, we will soon receive the downfall of such devices on our heads. That is why we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u155	Grivkowski. Do Not Urge Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, when I started getting acquainted with the documents, I saw that he wasn't supposed to be in the Supreme Council today. Because of what? Because he is in conflict with the Rules. We take what the government has given us. We see "Explanatory Note," pretty good, we see the text of the law, but there's no correlation table to the law. It's not normal. Adam Ivanovich, you must not allow such bills to be considered by law. You were supposed to return this to the government. You didn't do it. For this reason, Adam Ivanovich, make a comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u157	So I deprive you of the right to discuss a bill you don't want.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u158	No, Adam Ivanovich, you can't. Well, you can announce your remarks, you're reacting badly to criticism today. Now I would like to say, Adam Ivanovich, in accordance with article 2, paragraph 92, of the Ukrainian Air Code, the certificate is a separate document for which it is not determined that it does not refer to arbitrary documents. In connection with this deletion, paragraph 122 of this list is absolutely unnecessary. That's why I think this law needs to be worked out. And it is obviously necessary to work on it through the rereading of the first reading. Among other things, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council on the need to implement the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 26 January 2012, which speaks of the need for political prisoners: both Timoshenko and Lucenka and Yvashchenka. Freedom to political prisoners, Adam Ivanovich! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u159	You're not speaking on the subject. I'm making a note. Yes, we have the next Fedun. None. Dear colleagues, shall we be determined? I'm voting on the proposal. The proposal by the drafters of the bill, because the committee proposes that it be returned to work on the adoption as a basis of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities. [[on civil aviation issues]] Registration number 9601. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:55]] For 230 Decision taken. Factions: The region's 181, "The Fatherland" did not vote, "Our Ukraine" six, the Communists did not vote, the People's Party 19, "Reforms"-19, non-fractional-5. Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to the Apparatus so they won't allow such cases to happen again, so they don't register bills that don't fit the Rules Act. We need to look closely at the registration, not all of them are documents that are provided for in the Rules. We're looking at a draft Law on Joint Investment Institutions. [[Registration number 9615]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:29:03]] For 218. Offer supported. I invite you to report to the head of the National Commission on Securities and Stock Market of Teveljev Dmitr Mihajlovich. Get ready for Piglet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Joint Investment Institutions, developed by the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, is proposed. The bill provides for the establishment, functioning and liquidation of corporate investment funds, a mechanism for corporate governance in such funds in the Law on Joint Investment Institutions of Ukraine. In addition, the bill provides for a clear sequence of activities in the creation of corporate and commercial investment funds and in the process of eliminating them. Taking into account the actual existence of funds that comprise a certain type of asset, it is proposed at the legislative level to define the classification of such funds and the structure of their assets, which corresponds to the modern development of the sphere of joint investment. In addition, the bill provides for a requirement for the nominal form of ICI securities release and the existence of undocumented paper. The bill also proposes to establish a requirement to pay the value of ICI securities, including the stock of the corporate investment fund in the formation of the initial statutory capital solely in monetary form. The management of assets and investors has improved the order of operations of the company for the settlement and redemption of securities. The bill provides for the improvement of the system of disclosure of activity information. In particular, it is proposed to establish a requirement for the company to have its own website on the Internet, which should include information about the company's asset management company, as well as information about ISI assets managed by the company. Taking into account the large amount of changes proposed in the Joint Investment Institutions Act, the bill sets out the prescribed law in the new edition. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u161	Thank you, Dmitri Mikhailovich. Praslov Igor Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 8 February. The bill is a draft of a new system law regulating the joint investment institution, as is also referred to in the people as the ISI, which is proposed to replace the current law on joint investment institutions of the Paevo and Corporate Investment Funds. It should be noted that the Act has, since its adoption in 2001, been somewhat outdated both politically and economically. According to our preliminary estimates, the adoption of this bill will increase the level of protected funds invested by individuals in investment papers at the Institute of Joint Investment. The Chief Research and Expert Office made a number of comments to the bill and said that it could be adopted on first reading with further elaboration. In view of all of this, the Committee proposes to adopt Bill 9615 as a basis. All the comments from the Scientific and Expert Office will be made in the preparation of the draft for second reading. However, attention must be drawn to some of the difficulties that we may well face in completing the limits imposed by article 116 of our Rules. As comprehensive innovations such as the bill are, there is a need for a significant change in a number of laws. This too needs to be taken into account. I would like to support the Committee's decision, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u163	Well, because it's a new law. Now. Since this is a new law that has not yet been passed, it does not work here, because we are writing a new law. So you don't have to worry about 116. Please sign up. Does no one want anything other than Arjevetin? No, we give Arjevetine our word. Bolderius Yury. None. Then, please, Arzhivetin Stanislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually a new version of the law on joint investment institutions, this requirement of the state of the art, the financial market segment on which these financial institutions are operating. In fact, we have to do everything we can to make these institutions a source of this kind of accumulating long-term resources into the country's economy. That's how these institutions work, in fact, in all developed economies. Of course, we have to take into account that in a few years, dozens of amendments have been made to the Act on Shareholders, on joint investment institutions and others that should be reflected in this bill. Now for the text of this bill. Of course, on the first reading it's probably okay, but in my opinion, to the second reading it needs a good "rifle," because here I'm going to give some examples. In a way that we are now considering, of course, the procedures and workloads that are already set up here in regulatory policy, on the part of the government regulator, are really not justified, in my opinion. Complicated procedures are in place for the registration and acceptance of statutory instruments of joint investment institutions. The text itself duplicates many of the rules already laid down in the laws on shareholders, banking, and others. A special section that regulates the activities of the corporate fund is needed. This is a serious issue that needs to be addressed. Insufficiently prescribed things, which, and articles that regulate as if the actual activity of these institutions. For example, using an asset bond or liability for third parties. In fact, it cannot be clearly interpreted legally. Ratings for assets, prospectus requirements, liquidation of corporate funds, etc. So, of course, conceptually this bill is built correctly as a new edition, but for the second reading, it is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u165	Yes, thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Social Investment Institutes Act as a basis. [[Registration number 9615]] Shared, sorry, shared investment. Please be supportive. [[13:36:51]] For 260 Decision taken. We're preparing for the second reading. We are considering a bill amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 9614]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:37:21]] For 217 Supported. Reported by the National MP, Andrew Pinchuk. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Yes, from the committee, Karakai, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u166	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The prescribed law is designed to improve the existing Insurance Law, which was adopted in 2001. And during his action, many amendments were made, which were not of a systemic nature, to put it mildly. Unfortunately, however, the committee, after considering the Pinchuck bill at its meeting, concluded that the bill was extremely relevant, but it contained advice on the issues that need to be removed, sending it back to work on a committee with the commission of a committee to re-read it. The committee took the appropriate decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u167	Yes, please sign up for the speech. Smoker, please. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u168	Please pass the word to Hashuk Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u169	Gasuk Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u170	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The MP's "For the Future Reforms" will support the insurance bill, which sets out the general legal principles of insurance and insurance and the characteristics of government regulation of insurance. In our view, the law is progressive and deserves attention. Among other things, we want to highlight such positive points. First of all, the only legal form of insurance companies can be stockholders, which will certainly help to raise awareness of insurance companies' activities. Second, applying the concept of substantial participation. World practice proves that insurance shareholders have a very strong influence on the insurance company and that under poor management, the insurer may become insolvent because of inadequate shareholder actions. And thirdly, there are specific requirements for the activities of broker insurance companies that take into account international principles and standards. One of the basic new provisions is the obligation of an insurance broker to offer a person in need of insurance a similar insurance service to at least two insurers. At the same time, the MP's Reforms Group for the Future points out the following. The project is characterized by excessive interference by a specially authorized executive body in regulating financial services markets in insurance companies. This is particularly true of article 10, which provides for prior agreement with the authorized body regarding the creation of a legal person and article 40, which provides for the appointment of the head of government and the chief accountant by the consent of the authorized body. We believe that these standards can be revised during the second reading of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u171	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u172	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Mrs. Antonina Boluri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u173	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u174	Indeed, the adoption of such a law is essential. What is insurance activity in Ukraine? We have more than 450 insurance companies in Ukraine, it's too high in population density, and at the same time, mistrust in this type of activity is growing. But this bill is unfortunately very imperfect. For example. A very good observation has been made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, but also by what we absolutely agree with, and it's also about insurance and prevention, fear as a particular activity. Therefore, insurance must also be identified in parallel with the insurance policy. That's not the exact description of the activity itself, I'm talking about the alarm. There's a lot of wrong things about registration requirements. Here's an example. For example, it is necessary to submit to the State Register of Financial Services a program of prevention with method, form, and scope of intimidation, and so forth. Well, that's completely absurd, because in order to create a program or insurance or insurance, you have to have an insurance portfolio. To have an insurance portfolio, you have to be registered. There's a lot of absolutely wrong requirements and characteristics like "funding sources in terms of the minimum guarantee fund and the limit of payability." What it is is "funding sources in terms of the minimum." Yes, "estimation of expenses for the establishment of the insurance administration and organization of activities with defined sources of funding." What's an "estimation of administrative expenses"? "Information on the business reputation and financial status of the owners of significant involvement and control of the insurance company" and so on. Absolutely not valid with whole items. So again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u175	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u176	The law itself is very relevant, but it must be returned to the author for further work and very serious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u177	Thank you. Yuri Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u178	Yes, one minute, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u179	Dear National Deputies! This bill, as far as I know, has been in preparation for 10 years, a whole group of deputies are working, and, by the way, Terjehochin's very active participant was developing this very version of the bill. And really, this bill is very hard on insurance. But we talked a lot about Ukrainians from this rostrum -- consumers of financial services of banking institutions, credit unions, very little talk about insurers. And by the way, there is a growing conflict in society between insurers. Because if you look at the downward trend in insurance payments, you can't help but resent society. So I think that's exactly the kind of tough version of the bill that came up. And really this bill suggests that in the end, we figure out who is the owner, who is the connected person, who is responsible for the state of affairs in this financial institution. I think we need to put in place similar mechanisms that work in the banking market, because it's also a financial institution, and we need insurance distortions, we need insurance companies to be levelled. So on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u180	Question completed. I'm voting on a proposal by the profile committee to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 9614]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:45:34]] For-23 The bill was rejected. For work? Well, let's make an offer to get the author back to work. [[13:46:01]] For 227 A decision has been made. We are considering a draft Act amending Chapter II of the Ending Positions Act of Ukraine on amending certain laws of Ukraine to support an agri-industrial complex in the context of a global financial crisis. [[Registration number 8113]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[13:46:39]] For 216 True, there may be no more crisis. Is there? Please, Kelestin Valeriy Vasilovich. Get ready, Perstenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, Bill 8113 was registered to me back in 2010. To date, the bill has lost its relevance. That's why I'm asking you to withdraw Bill 8113.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the author made a suggestion to withdraw it from consideration. Please vote on the proposal. I am voting on the author's motion to withdraw from the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on support for agri-industrial complex in the context of the global financial crisis. [[Registration number 8113]] Please vote. [[13:47:49]] For 258. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 184, Fatherland 1, People's Party. Ukraine" – 4, Communists – 24, People's Party – 20, Reforms. - 19, non-fractional - 6. Dear colleagues, what needs to be supported by the agri-industrial complex is clear. But at the same time, the author says that the bill was in 2010, when there really was a global economic crisis. Therefore, we logically gave in to the fact that he was out of date. And what we need to do is no doubt about it. Write new laws. We are considering a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] [[Registration number 7062]] There's a short cut. Please vote. [[13:49:04]] For 213 A decision has been made. As reported by Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk, author of the bill. Get ready for Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u183	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! This bill was introduced as a result of those elections to the local self-government bodies that we had last seen. This legislative initiative has been under way for two years, and unfortunately, it is now being considered in the session room. I hope that those who are in pain for an independent system of power, which is just in the process of reinventing local self-government, will understand the need for a change to the Law on Introduction. in the law on the election of the National Deputies of the Supreme Council. Crime, local and rural, rural, and urban heads. The point of the bill is that in the last election, there were many cases where the city’s heads were chosen by a small number of voters. For example, where small cities were, the mayors were people who were chosen by 2.5 thousand, 3,000. [[There's 30,000 and less.]] And, you know, it didn't exactly reflect the moods that most people in the community have. Our position, the European Party of Ukraine, is that the city heads have an absolute majority in the majority of the majority, and that the election of the city heads will be considered a candidate who has won more than half the votes of the voters who took part in the vote. If none of the candidates have obtained an absolute majority of the votes in the first round, the second round will take place between the two candidates who won the largest number of votes. The result of the re-voting is considered to be a candidate for which more voters have voted. The law in force sets out the standard by which most of the city’s heads and village heads were chosen: the chosen candidate, who received more than another candidate, is the number of votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u184	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u185	Thank you. who took part in the vote. My bill is primarily aimed at increasing the responsibility of urban heads and rural, rural, for example, who have been elected, and so are voters, who, let's say, are not paying attention to this kind of vote, they don't come to the election. And the responsibilities of the electorate must be applied in the same way, and this will increase this responsibility, these changes, for the exercise of their right to vote. The science-expert management is offering to support the first reading. Accordingly, the committee suggests that the first reading be supported. Thank you for your attention. And I'm waiting for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u186	I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. As reported by Olga Borisovna Bodnar, the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u187	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Listeners, and Viewers! Olga Bodnar, Yulia Timoshenko Block, "The Fatherland". The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 14 December reviewed the draft Act amending the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[on the selection of city heads by majority system of absolute majority]] As noted by the author, the bill is designed to amend the law with the aim of electing city heads for the majority of the majority. For this reason, the bill sets out separate elections for rural, rural, and still proposes to be held under a major system of relative majority, and the elections for city heads, which are proposed to be chosen for the majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority. The elected city head will already be considered a candidate for the post of city head, who received more than half of the votes cast by the electorate. If none of the candidates for the post of municipal head obtains an absolute majority, then a re-vote is proposed for the two candidates who have won the largest vote. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgeting, on the basis of its consideration of the bill, noted that the proposed amendment had a direct impact on the expenditure of local budgets, increasing them in the case of re-election and re-voting. The main scientific and expert management generally supports the general idea of the bill, because, in the opinion of the management, its acceptance may contribute to the resolution of certain shortcomings in the majority majority major electoral system. Having made a number of comments on the content of the bill, the management believes that the first reading of the bill could provide a basis for adoption. During the discussion at a meeting of the National Deputies of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule, it was unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft law in question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u188	Finish up. Bodnar O.B. submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy, Catherinechuk, as a result of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis. At the same time, members of the committee feel that it would be appropriate to introduce these changes, starting with the following successive elections to local governments. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u189	Are we going to discuss it, or are we going to make it clear? We've talked about this. We're talking about every session. Every session. Sign up. Blackwolf Alexander, get ready for Hayman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u190	Dear friends! Well, first of all, Adam Ivanovich, these are serious bills that we've been looking at today, but it's not worth looking at in the short term. Secondly, about the relevance or inadequacy of this standard that is proposed. Recall the 2006 election of a city head in Kiev. Then 23 percent took on Chernevski, 21 percent Klitschko, and 19 percent Omelchenko. Obviously, if there was a second tour, it would be very difficult to say who would become mayor, whether Klitschko or Chernevski. At least now we can say that in 2006 the mayor was legit equal to one third of those who came to the election. It's an unfair, absurd system, it's unfair, and it's pointless for a city's head to be elected. It is just as unfair and foolish for the election of local council members, and it is just as unfair and pointless for the election of deputies to the Supreme Council. So we have to take the first step and support this bill by putting at least urban heads, because these are people who have huge powers. At the same time, they lead the local councils, act as city heads, lead the executive body of the city council, and have universal legitimacy as president at the country level. Clearly, such a person should be chosen by an absolute majority of the votes. That's why I think we should vote in favour of this law in every session until we restore justice and common sense and choose the city heads, and, once again, I emphasize, and the majority of the majority of the majority vote in the second round, choosing among the two candidates who went on the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u191	Gayman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u192	The word is passed on to Zadir.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u193	Please, Gordien Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u194	Please pass the word to your colleague, Catherine Seminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u195	Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u196	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has always stood up for the bill, because we believe that, in fact, the head and the city, the village and the village must be legitimate and should use the trust of most of our voters. And in order for the head to really be legitimate, not to be voted in the village or in the village of 700 people -- and he's the boss of all, we will have to support this bill. But I am addressing the author of the bill. It would be very appropriate for this to be extended to the choices of rural and rural heads. You can't have different approaches, you can't do that. But I think in the very title of the bill, the term "majoristrian" is completely inappropriate. We also know that the election of a city head, a rural or a village head, or the rise itself, or a political party, and that is, of course, a little inappropriate. But I think the second reading would need to be cleaned up, and this rule should also be placed on rural and rural heads. But I want to say that there is a danger. I remember in 1994, the election system was to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So until the end of the cadence, we haven't been able to form a 100 percent Supreme Council of Ukraine, because in separate districts, we haven't been able to do that much more than 50 plus one to take part in and vote in favour of any candidate. We vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u197	Chechchev's handing over Popescu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u198	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The noble colleagues, understanding the author's good intentions, I have to pay attention to two moments that prevent us from voting for this bill today. First of all, this is not in line with article 24 of the Constitution, which allows neither privileges nor any limitations at all. And here the question is that the heads of rural and village councils will be chosen directly, and the heads of the city will be chosen in two rounds. I want to point out that we have, by status, cities with 2,000 people. For example, the Hertz of Cherniewec has had city status since 1428. And there are villages, like the Middle Waters in Zakarpat, the Wonders of the Chernivian region, where there are 5,000 or 7,000 people. There are villages, the Krasnoylsk region – 10,000 people. And so there's an imbalance. That is why we cannot vote in this way. One second. The proposed differentiation in approaches to the election of urban, rural, and rural heads is unlikely to be justified. Because according to the Constitution of Ukraine, nature and the legal status of rural, rural, and urban positions are identical. And the second, and the last moment. I want to point out that if we go into two rounds of voting, it's going to predict an increase in the cost of holding the election almost twice. So in today's conditions, when the budget is already in place and we're living in a crisis, we're not going to find any extra money. That's why the Party of Regions is going to go against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u199	Please, Bully, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u200	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, actually, the MP's reform group for the future is going to vote in favour of this bill. And the bill is very, very good, because it's really necessary today. And the point is, we're even going to propose that we vote on it in general today. This law gives more legitimacy to our elected city heads and I want to say that it is very and very important. What are the flaws? This is really going to be the second round of government budget funding. But in general, this is a very democratic European law that Ukraine needs today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u201	Bodnar, one minute. Bodnar Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u202	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I'm not even addressing you because the hall already understands very well what's going on here. Please, citizens of Ukraine, take this vote carefully. I want to tell you that it's really only your vote for today that will solve this issue. Because I see most people don't want to support the decision we're proposing. And we're saying that if we stay on the relative majority right now, you're going to have these black people again and you're going to live in Greek, and you're going to ask each other, "Who actually chose that mayor?" Those measures will hide their eyes and rest in Georgia and in Israel. So I think that in this case those who really want justice and those who want to answer to people and do not fear justice will vote in favour of this bill. Our faction supports this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u203	Question completed. All the factions who wanted to speak came forward. I think it's very easy to implement this idea. You have to put up candidates who have to win the first round at 60 to 70 percent of the vote, and there will be no problems and there will be cost savings. I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee: to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. [[Registration number 7062]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:04:24]] For 112 The decision is not taken. The factions. The bill was rejected. The Party of Regions did not vote, BUT – 47, Our Ukraine – 19, Communists – 25, The People's Party – did not vote, reforms – 17, non-fractional – 4. We should be looking at Bill 8782 right now. However, the author of the bill made a suggestion to postpone his consideration, to postpone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u204	Break!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u205	Break's in 11 minutes. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on improving the social protection mechanism of the population in the area of observation. [[Registration number 9043]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:05:28]] For 207 Supported. Please report, he's from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u206	Four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u207	So if you want, you can have four minutes. Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, you have submitted a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on improving the social protection mechanism of the population living in the area of observation. [[Registration number 9043]] The purpose of the bill is expressed in his name. The problem has been a problem for years, and there is still no legal solution. The need for the drafting of Bill 9043 is due to a complex of circumstances. In particular, the Ukrainian Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act, adopted in 1995, gave the population of nuclear installations a socio-economic compensation for the risk of these objects. But this law did not have a real financial mechanism for establishing a community for socio-economic risk compensation. The Ukrainian Supreme Council introduced in 2009 amendments to the Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act to the enforcement and payment function of the designated assembly were delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, on May 20, 2010, the Constitutional Court granted the amended law to the Cabinet of Ministers declared unconstitutional. As a result of this decision, the financial mechanism for socio-economic compensation for population risk has become obsolete. In order to unlock the situation, to systematically address the current problem, to create legal conditions for the social protection of the population in the area of observation, to take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to remedy the shortcomings of previous legislative initiatives, I have submitted a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the social protection mechanism of the population living in the area of observation. [[Number 9043]] The project is aimed at setting up an algorithm for the operations and obligations of operating organizations that arise when implementing the provisions of the Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security and to ensure harmonization of regulatory acts in part of the implementation of the single terms and concepts. The bill strengthens the autonomy and responsibility of the territorial communities in taking administrative decisions in part of the development of observational area infrastructure. According to the Chief Research Administration, Bill 9043 can be adopted on the basis of these observations. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of a first reading of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving the Social Protection Mechanism, which resides in the area of observation, number 9043, to be adopted as a basis. Just a few more words. This will enable the committee to finalize a bill along with a first-reading government draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Settlement of Assembly Arrangements for Socio-economic Compensation of the Risk of Population residing in the Observation Zone, Number 9409. Which will solve the financial component of the problem. Please support the committee's proposal. That is, two bills are named, and they are linked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u209	Thank you. Yes, those who live near nuclear power plants, raise your hands. Please sign up. Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u210	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this bill. Because there are still near times when I, when I was a student of the Odessa Political Institute, and there were people among my friends who lived in Pripeta, whose state at the time took away everything -- the possibility of living in the territory where they were born, the possibility of having their own property, which their parents also had, the possibility of seeing their future in this territory. So really, the problem is when a State removes its view from troubled areas where, in particular, nuclear installations with any reactor, or RBMs, or VVRs, regardless of whether there are conclusions as to whether or not there are any conclusions as to whether the support of MAGATE or whether it falls within the scope of a completely risk-free object, whether or not a fund should be created. In fact, we support the thesis that such things, such monetary units can be formed only by counting the generating companies that will go to maintain these territories and these citizens. But the question is, what do we mean when we talk about, as they say, compensation for the risks themselves? As a project manager, I don't know what "risk compensation" is. I know what compensation is, I know what compensation is, I know what compensation is, I know what compensation is for any event that brings financial burden. So it is not clear how this will be done. So on the first reading, we support this bill, we give it the right to life, we give it the second reading, I think we'll work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u211	Arjewitin gives Matthew the word. Please. Get Moshak ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u212	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to start by explaining what "risk compensation" is. If you were living out of your window you could see four grade atomic reactors, and every day you wake up, you saw them, and when you go to sleep, you would see these gradients, you'd understand these people who need attention from the state not only when they're asked to get a positive result of public discussions about giving permission to build an atomic reactor, but on the second day, they're forgotten. People want to be sure that on the second day after the positive answer, they won't be dumped on each other with those gradients, and they'll have some extra compensatory mechanisms. It's not about someone putting an extra bracelet in their pocket. And the point is that the socio-economic development of these areas will be provided for just-for-all additional costs. And you have to take into account that it's already being asked by people today whether to build or not on your territory, near your village, an atomic power station. In Soviet times, no one asked. People didn't even know they were building under them until it started working. Today they are forced to live there. A lot of people are leaving. If we want this to turn into a deserted territory, we need to close our eyes and say there is no money, or we need to pretend that there is no such problem at all. The problem is that similar mechanisms are also used in other countries. So I ask you all very much to support this bill. If anyone has any questions, for the second reading, I'm sure we can make our proposals, they'll be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u213	Moshak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u214	Then, one minute, Kovalevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u215	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, as the Ukrainian National Deputy, who is anchored in the territorial constituency that belongs to one of the observation zones, there is the Zaporez nuclear station, I want to thank the author of this bill for this legislative initiative. [[This is the town of Marganec Nikopol district of Dnipropetrovština.]] Undoubtedly, one of the direct duties of the State is to protect the population properly from the nuclear neighborhood. Yet such a close coexistence with a peaceful atom, like the inhabitants of observation zones, is extremely uncomfortable even from a psychological point of view. Anxiety for themselves and their loved ones does not leave them, for they literally breathe danger. So I'm convinced that it's our duty to create appropriate socio-economic conditions for citizens to live and work at places where businesses can be located that can compensate for the risk of people living in these zones. [[Of extracting, processing uranium ores, nuclear installations and objects intended for handling radioactive waste]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u216	School, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u217	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You know, when I hear representatives of the government speaking that way, and they read that information, but how they symbolize their struggle or declare their struggle for improving people today, they're talking about the Chernobyls. You didn't have to take pensions from the Chernobyls, you didn't have to take benefits from them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u218	Andrew, let's get closer to nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u219	That's what I'm talking about. So when we talk about the areas where the nuclear autostations will be located, by the way, you've already given permission, today's authorities have given permission to import here and preserve the waste, and bury it in the territory of the Chernobyl AES, there will never be faith in this, because you've already established those people who have protected the interests of the state with your life, the interests of Ukraine, who have received State guarantees. So now I would say that, of course, we need to support this bill, but don't forget that today's authorities don't speak to their citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-21-m0.u220	Question completed. In fact, the honourable colleagues, those of you who have a bearing on these zones, those who meet with voters, and I have recently had similar conversations in the Volin district of Manevicki district, where the Ravenska AES is active, and so on is an extremely pressing problem. I'd like to listen to the author of the bill and the committee heads to support us now on the first reading, and they grouped together, put together, in one sense, the bills that are already on the first reading adopted so that we can look at these two bills together, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the social protection mechanism of the population living in the area of observation. [[Registration number 9043]] Please take a friendly vote. [[14:17:09]] For 290 A decision has been made. The factions. Region Party – 175, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 31, "Our Ukraine" – 13, Communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, People's Party – 20, non-fractional – 7. Thank you for your fruitful work. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Dinner is at 4:00 p.m.
