ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:16]] Cards were registered in the 416 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues and distinguished national MPs! Allow me, on your behalf, to welcome the veterans of all generations, the military officials -- all those who carry out the sacred duty of protecting the country -- are the defenders of the country's Motherland Day, and wish them good health, success in the matter to which they have dedicated their lives. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And today’s military officers have resigned with their demands and proposals to the Supreme Council. That's the day I'm asking the appropriate committees. I'm directing these, their proposals, to study. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 22, 2012, plenary meeting. Ten questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, five laws were passed, and one bill was turned back to the subject of the legislative initiative, and one bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the issues set out in the schedule for today. Before the session starts, I have an offer to start work. Let's, dear fellows, if there's no objection, consider choosing a committee head if there's no objection. And the second question I'm going to put to the vote, and I'm going to ask you to prepare yourself and make a decision on the termination of the powers of national deputies. I'm the only one who's asking me to vote now and not to give all the information that everyone will then be responsible for, your honorary colleagues. You can't put it in a bag, but I'm going to put it separately. And I'm asking you to finally make a decision. Honourable National Deputies, I announce for consideration the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization, namely: the election of the Stec Jurija Jaroslavovich as Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council for Freedom of Word and Information, by releasing him from the duties of the Secretary of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Word and Information. [[Registration number 10099]] There is a proper decision by the committee, there are two factions, the opposition factions, about this agreed candidature. I'm betting on the vote on the 10099 draft. Please vote. [[10:05:00]] For 345. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the national deputy Stec to such a responsible office, especially during the political campaigns that await us in connection with the election of Ukraine’s national deputies. Honourable National Deputies, I propose to you the draft Decree 10100: on the election of Prutnik Edouard Anatoliyovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters relating to fuel and energy, nuclear policy and nuclear security, freeing him from his duties as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of fuel and energy, nuclear policy and nuclear security. All of this corresponds to the quotas that belong to the factions of the Party of the Regions. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree 10100. Please vote. [[10:06:23]] For 309 Decision taken. Honourable National MPs, now voting is on the motion to end the term of office, to suspend the authority of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kaskov Vladislav Volodymyrovich, in connection with his appointment as Head of the State Investment Agency and the administration of national projects in Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote, please. Please vote. [[10:07:07]] For-195 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote every day! And if I have to, I'll publish more information about the salary that's being paid in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you enough every day to do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, I am putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the cessation, the permanent suspension of the powers of the national deputy Leluka Alexia Volodymyrovich in connection with the appointment of the head of the State Agency for the Reserve of Ukraine. Please vote. By the way, in connection with his personal application for termination of authority. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:07:57]] For 196 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, I'll do the factions at the end. Regarding the suspension of the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy, Pecklusenko Alexandre Mikolaiovich, in connection with the appointment of the head of the Zaporozhye District Authority. Please vote. [[10:08:31]] For-183 The decision is not taken. I had a job. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have your attention, please? Listen, please! Listen to what I'm telling you! I've assigned the Chief of the Apparatus this morning to release all the assistants of these national deputies, to stop paying their salaries if you don't have a conscience. And tomorrow I'm going to put that question to the vote again. Well, you understand perfectly, you can't keep moving! It's cynicism, it's a violation of the Constitution, of the laws, of the order! What, you're sitting there, don't you get it?Oh, my God! How can you live like this? What example do we set for people? What can be the benefit of this Supreme Council? So let's vote off its operation! Well, think, how many towers can you do that for?Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] These questions are not included in the order of the day. It's a human question. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to ask you to release the material and publish it in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. At the request of two factions: the "BUT" factions – "The Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine" faction – "The People's Self-Defense" – are announced for 30 minutes, up to 10 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Let's focus, let's continue our work. Because we did. The two factions have taken a break in accordance with the Rules and have the right to make a statement on the reasons why they requested a recess and a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Two factions: "The House of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland", "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" – are already asking questions on the need for immediate consideration and adoption of a decision on the draft decision on the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which were approved on the issue of rights and freedoms in Ukraine on 26 January of this year. Why did this question become urgent? I would like to remind you of the key points in the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. First, it is the bias of the judiciary and the selectivity of the judiciary, the need for the immediate release of former government officials, namely: the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, Minister of Internal Affairs, Yuri Lucenka, acting as Minister of Defence of Yvashchenko, and their admission to active participation in political life and subsequent elections. The items relating to the direct introduction of articles 364, 365 with the requirements of the Council of Europe, the paragraphs relating to the bringing into line with the prosecutors' bodies, the lawyers, in fact, 12 key paragraphs of the resolution today call for real democratization in Ukraine. Sadly, this month, January 26, shows a worsening situation. What the Supreme Council Committee's consideration of freedom issues costs is the question of whether the radio broadcasting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can be stopped, following a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which directly points to rights violations and the right to freedom of speech. What it costs after a statement by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe about the need for immediate medical assistance to political prisoners Timoshenko, Lucenko, Yvashchenko, in fact, to violate the Hippocratic oath and direct lies used by officials of the Ministry of Health regarding a so - called diagnosis that has not yet been determined by doctors of the German clinic and Canadian doctors. This so - called diagnosis has already been made public directly by these officials of the Ministry of Health. That is why our faction insists that this issue be put on the agenda immediately, and we have approved the appropriate decision and action to implement it. This will enable the creation of a real democratic society in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u4	Dear National Deputies! During the meeting of the Conciliation Board, this particular problem was discussed. There were various suggestions: to consider the matter at the evening meeting, I suggested that I consider it tomorrow after an hour of questions to the government, more than half an hour would be answered by the Foreign Minister. Well, it would be logical to ask that question. At the same time, no decision was taken at the Conciliation Council. The motivation of the factions who do not support this proposal is to look at this document, discuss it at the level of factions to support or support one of the proposed projects. So I'd like to ask the faction leaders to take a look at a project on which the committee made the right decisions yesterday and to make the right decisions. to express our view of when we will consider the matter. That's why it's here. The problem of dealing with this issue is time. When? I understand. But each faction can determine whether it supports a project there, let's say the whole or the base, or what parts of each project it supports in order to be able to go out on some common denominator. And about the information that was said in the speech about the likely, possible, suspension of the broadcast of the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! My position is that you can't deprive people of spectacles, so no suggestions that are there at the level of conversation, I would ask, at the level of conversation and gossip, not to be translated into official messages. Because any decision will be taken by the Supreme Council, and no one will even make or make that decision. I think this will be the position of the Supreme Council. Let's not look for storms where there's no reason. Dear National Deputies! At the same time, I go back to the question of putting an end to the parliamentary powers of the national deputies. I'd like to ask you, my fellow Members, to defer consideration of the question of the Pecklesenka People's Deputy, because he is, as far as I know, in the hospital, to consider two questions about two candidates and to vote. So I would like to prepare myself for the vote. Calm down, fellows of honor! I am voting on the proposal to adopt draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the suspension of the term of office of the national deputy, Leluka Oleksija Volodymyrovich, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary authority. Please vote. [[11:09:35]] For 396 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to suspend the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Kaskov Vladislav Volodymyrovich in connection with his appointment as head of the National Investment Agency and the administration of Ukraine’s national projects. Please vote. [[11:10:12]] For 402 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues, give me the names of these ten men. None. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the Specialities of Purchasing in Certain Areas of Economic Activity. [[Registration number 10006]] Please vote. [[11:11:09]] For 262 Decision taken. I ask the committee to prepare for this project, then it will be possible to express its reflection on this legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the merger of joint owners of a multi-family house. [[Registration number 8474]] [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Sergey Maybeard. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u5	A draft government bill for second reading, adopted as a basis on July 5, last year, was considered five times by the committee on the need to reconcile issues, change to regions, and social organizations. A total of 102 amendments to the Ukrainian people’s deputies have been made. Of these, 46 are rejected, of which 56 are fully, partially, or editorially. The chief legal office called for a bill with observations that the committee disagreed with, since the rules laid down were essential for the creation and further functioning of the OSB. Regarding the new edition of article 42 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. According to the Land Code of Ukraine, the general and special rules for the acquisition of the law and land as set out in article 42 of the Code, in all cases the transfer of land and a clear list of purchasers of the right of permanent use or lease to such land is not appropriate. Article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure does not correspond to the order for a full list of such cases. As regards the order of legitimacy of the decision-making by the General Assembly of the FSB. The rule of decision-making, provided that not less than two thirds of the co-owners, who in the group are entitled to live and non-residential housing in a multi-housing building of not less than two thirds of the total area of living and non-living premises in a multi-housing house, were voted for. This rule will guarantee the rights of each coowner. In summary, at its meeting on February 8, this year, the committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading bill as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! The Chief Legal and Scientific Authority has drawn attention to the fact that there are a number of significant observations to this bill, plus the bill does not comply with article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Therefore, it is suggested that the committee be instructed to bring it into line with the requirements of the Rules, to re-examine the General Legal Office's observations so that we do not get a reasoned veto from the President of Ukraine. Is there no objection? None. Please work with the committee until the next plenary week. The question was removed by the next plenary week. Well, let's not discuss the question. Carmazine, microphone. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u7	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You've made the right decision. I just wanted to add that there's not enough to go into 116. Science and expertise says that the changes to the Civil Code, which are now being introduced here, to other laws, are contrary to the logic of the law and therefore have to be reformulated. Among other things, I draw the attention of the committee to the fact that my amendment to article 7 is not included in the table at all. In addition to everything I've written down, and I have a copy of it on both the electronic and the paper media, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Because of this, I suggest we go back, include it, because it also has a bearing on our objectively and normally making the law, the law is not bad. But there are still many amendments to be taken into account. The committee needs to reconvene, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u8	Yes, it's a discussion of a question, a question removed. All of it. I'm asking you, please. Please! A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on regulation of investment in housing and utilities is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Sergey Maybeard, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, your attention is drawn to a unified draft for second reading, in line with the Supreme Council’s decision of November 15, 2011, adopted on the basis of Bills 8640 and 9033. But the committee is tasked with preparing them for the second reading, bringing them together as those who have a complex solution to one problem. These include the preparation and implementation of investment programs, the identification and implementation of an investment rate for centralized heating and water supply services, as well as the order in which they are formed. Under the Supreme Council Rules, time has come for the committee to have proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, a total of 18 amendments, which are taken into account entirely, or editorially, 12th. I would like to point out that the prepared edition has been worked out by the committee and is in agreement with the Ministry of Regional Development of Construction and Housing. The chief legal office called for his second reading with observations and proposals on the helicopters. The committee disagrees with this, since the comments are of an excessively general nature, i.e. it is proposed that further amendments be made to certain articles of other legislative acts. And his work will lead to violations of the requirements of Article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. In addition, the prepared edition is supported by entrepreneurs who provide central heating services. On January 11, this year, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted as a basis for second reading and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u10	Yeah, we're gonna go with the amendments, aren't we? Amendment 2 - Seminoga. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, it seems that the proposed bill is traditionally designed to translate the problems of inefficient housing and utilities into the hands of consumers and ordinary people for years. Instead of encouraging energy conservation, cost reduction, resource savings, housing and utilities tariffs are offered to increase again at the expense of the investment sector and put these increases on the shoulders of ordinary citizens. The point of my amendment is for the listed accounts of the operators to list the costs that are already included in the tariffs for repairs, reconstructions, niches, the restoration of the core funds. Not at the expense of a new tax imposed on consumers, namely, an investment tax. I insist that my amendment be voted on. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u12	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u13	Committee position: rejected because this proposal is legally invalid.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u14	Amendment 2 shall be put to the vote. [[author Anatoly Seminoga]] [[11:19:43]] For-7. Correction not counted. Amendment 5. Anatoly's Seminomist, do you insist? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, well, I don't think we understand what law we're taking. Once again, we're adopting a bill that will increase the pressure on consumers of utilities today. That is, a new component is introduced in the formation of tariffs for utilities. The new ingredient refers to investment projects. Instead of having commercial structures build new objects, repair old networks, and today we are trying to place these problems on the account of consumers. Consumers should pay for services, for quality of services, and not for the business, excuse me, repair pipes, sewers, and so forth. So I insist once again on supporting my correction. It allows for these issues to be settled in the current legislation. And there are both profits and depreciation costs and equipment repairs. So once again, I ask you to support the 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u16	Puts to the vote the 5th amendment. [[11:21:14]] For-12. Correction not supported. Amendment 7. Corge, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 10th? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 15th. Are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u17	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I want to say that of these two bills, the entire committee worked well. Let's put it this way, I've removed a lot of things and added them. I'd like to ask, too, and I'd like to make that suggestion. Subjects of farming, add with new paragraphs after paragraph 7, to the 12th sentence: "Subjects of housing-communal services in the field of the provision of housing services to be carried out in an investment-based accounting system established by law open special accounts. In these accounts, the operators count the costs of the fixed rates for the implementation of the investment programmes. The procedure for accounting, using the selected funds and controlling their expenditure is set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. Subjects in the area of housing services, special accounts owners are obliged to use the funds that are in such accounts exclusively for the execution of incest programmes. Using the selected costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u18	Complete your formulation. Just make it quick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u19	Thank you. It's very important simple. Thank you. The procedure for monitoring the implementation of incest programmes in the area of housing and utility services, as well as the marginal cost of investments that may be involved in investment programmes, which are included in the calculation of economically sound expenditures and the deadline for the operation of investment programmes until they are fully repaid, shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. These changes are being made to ensure more efficient use and control of the investment resources involved. And they don't have any political pressure. I would like to support you and ask you to support the committee and now to vote. Believe me, there's going to be a lot of comments that are now to be made by the MPs, or by the Scientific and Legal Authority. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u20	I bet on the vote of Amendment 15. [[11:23:57]] For-33 No correction supported. Amendment 18. Korja's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u21	Amendment 18 Please support and put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u22	Deviation or Support?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u23	It's about support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u24	Committee position, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u25	The committee's position is to reject. It cannot be accepted because this bill is used for a set of special accounts, and the cost is accumulated in terms of the size of the investment component’s tariffs. Overruled!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's amendment has been rejected. The author insists on voting for this amendment. I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 18. Please vote. [[11:25:06]] For 235 Correction accepted. All other amendments are included. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee suggests that we accept it as a law in the second reading. The Chief Legal Authority has made significant remarks and believes that the law requires serious refinement and re-reading. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the proposal to the first committee: the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the law of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of investment activities in the field of housing and utilities. [[Registration number 8640]] Please vote. [[11:26:06]] For 241 The law is passed. The draft Law on Transfer, Forced Derogation or Removal of Property under the legal regime of war or state of emergency shall be announced for consideration. [[7378]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexander Bondar. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On December 20, 2011, the Committee on Economic Policy considered at its meeting a draft law on the transfer, enforcement or removal of property under the legal regime of military or state of emergency on the second reading and decided to recommend the project as a whole to be adopted as a law. [[Registration number 7378]] In particular, the project is aimed at regulating legal relations that are linked to the forced alienation of private property objects into the state, to the implementation of article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The committee’s second reading included 97 suggestions from members of the people, 48 of whom were rejected. Others are included in whole or in part. The committee has an argument for all the rejected proposals. In doing so, it should be noted that the corresponding proposals of the national MPs have been rejected because they do not correspond to the concept of a project that was adopted in the first reading and because such proposals complicate the implementation of the law in practice. Thus, the Economic Policy Committee proposes to adopt the project as a whole. Now for the transcript, I would like to point out that, in addition, the committee proposes to take into account some of the observations of the Supreme Council's Legal Office, which are agreed with the Ministry of Justice, namely part three, four, article five of the draft adopted in the first reading, is proposed to complement them with the words "according to the law." Also on page 29 of the table, offer number 79 to the project from Wonderland came up with a technical error. The committee finds that it is rejected but is included in the right column. The committee therefore insists on voting on the amendment because the committee does not support it. Also on page 29 of the next amendment, I ask her to vote too. There's an edition of the Minius, which reads the amendment of 80 Sphinx. Thank you for your attention. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you can go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u28	Thank you, too. 1 amendment, Wonderland, do you insist on it? No, it's not. 2nd, Strange? No, it's not. Fatty, 3rd? No, it's not. Sphinx, 4th? No, it's not. Carmazine, 5th, do you insist on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u29	Yuri Carmazin, the substance of the 5 amendments is that I proposed a preamble to the law to be drafted. I suggest you do that. This law defines the mechanism for transfer, forcible alienation or disposal of property in legal and natural persons under the legal regime of war or state of emergency with a view to ensuring that the threat of armed aggression or the threat of attack, the dangers of Ukraine's State independence, its territorial integrity, the removal of the threat of a particularly severe, extreme situation of a technological or natural nature and the elimination of its consequences. And the restoration of the rule of law in an attempt to seize state power or change the constitutional order through violence. Since the removal and alienation of property in accordance with article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine can be effected only on the basis of specific laws laid down in war and state of emergency. I think it's the preamble that corresponds to today's holiday, the Day of Fatherland's Defender. With this, I welcome all the country's defenders. God forbid it's too long.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u30	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u31	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a clear article in the preamble to this law, was written from the Constitution of Ukraine. We have no right to write any more, because that would be a violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u32	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 5 Yuri Karmazin. [[11:30:45.]] For-23 Correction not accepted. Yes, the following adjustments. Sphinx, 11th. No, it's not. 12th. No, it's not. 14th, Spinov. Don't insist. Tolstenko, 15th. Don't insist. Spinov, 16th. Don't insist. Yuri Carmazin, 21st Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u33	21st Amendment. In article 2, part two, after the words “forced alienation”, add the words “prefrontal partial compensation within existing costs and the next payment of an amount that is not sufficient for full compensation or. "the end of the offer. This supplement will provide constitutional guarantees of property rights in the event of financial failure to compensate for the value of property that is forcibly alienated. I'm sorry for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u34	The committee did not take this amendment into account because we feel that the amendment defined in the law, in the second reading and in the first reading, is entirely in line with the idea of what Yuri Carmazin said. It's just a little different.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u35	The vote is amended by the 21st. [[11:32:28]] For 20 Correction not supported. Carmazine, 29th, microphone, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u36	Yuri Carmazin. In Amendment 29, I propose, in part one of the words “the Council of the Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the District, Kiev or Sevastopol City Administration or the executive body of the relevant local council” to replace the words “the authorities authorized to continue to manage the relevant state property according to the law, since the decision on the confiscation of property must be made by an authority empowered by law to carry it out further. Because of this, I ask you to support my amendment, it bears no political burden whatsoever. I thank the committee for taking into account the many amendments, but I feel that this amendment should have been taken into account as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u37	We, the committee, seem to be more in line with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u38	Puts to the vote 29 amendments. [[11:33:58]] For-21 Correction not supported. Amendment 36, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 36 refers to: in the first part of article 4, the words “the executive body, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the military command, the local self-government body, on which, in accordance with the Presidential Decree on the introduction of the state of emergency, the implementation of the state of emergency measures has been made, the military command, the body on which the state of emergency measures have been carried out” shall be replaced by the words “the authorities authorized to continue to manage the relevant state property in accordance with the law”. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u40	The same thing, our amendment, the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u41	The 36th amendment, which repeats the contents in fact the previous one, is based on the vote. [[11:35:04]] For-12. Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u42	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, what I said about the transcript: in 5 articles 3, 4 points on the proposal of the Parliament's legal administration to end the paragraphs according to the law, we simply add.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u43	Is there no objection? None. Let's move on. It's Yuri Carmazin's 45th amendment again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u44	Yuri Carmazin. In Amendment 45, I propose that article 5 be supplemented by new parts of the seventh and eighth parts. And that's exactly our position that what the government fails to do, we have to complement. "In the event of the inability or refusal of signature by persons defined in part four of this article, an act of acceptance of the transfer of municipal property to state property which is forcibly alienated for defence purposes or for the purpose of preventing or eliminating a situation that has led to the introduction of a state of emergency legal regime, such an act shall be signed by an authority empowered by law to carry out further management of the property in question. In the absence of an owner or an authorized representative in the case of an act of acceptance-transfer of municipal property to a state property which is forcibly alienated for defence purposes or for the disposal or disposal of a situation that has caused the introduction of a state of emergency legal regime, such an act shall be sent to the former owner of the alien property no later than the date of its signature." Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u45	The committee took into account the previous amendment made by Fatsten, which we believe is more legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u46	Amendment 45 shall be put to the vote. [[11:37:03]] For-31 No correction supported. It's Yuri Carmazin's 63rd amendment. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u47	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the committee for taking 61 amendments, it was very serious. And 63 amendments refer to the additions of article 8 to a new part of the second sentence: "Indemnification of the value of property in the event of forced alienation under the terms of the legal regime of war or state of emergency shall take place in full measure, including the loss of benefit and the moral damage caused by such alienation." I believe that this definition will be in full conformity with constitutional approaches to the protection of property, property rights, including situations where profit is lost or moral damage is caused by actions that cause authority." Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u48	Vladimir Mikhailovich, the committee believes that it will be very difficult to identify moral damage, loss of benefit, and subjective categories. So that formulation, which is in the law, is more economically appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u49	Amendment 63 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:38:49]] For-31 Correction not supported. Next amendment 78. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank all those who supported the amendment. Sadly, she did not pass because she was supported by only 31 people. And the trouble is that we are the notions and guarantees that are already laid down in the Civil Code, around, in a law that has a higher order and a higher legal power, we don't even want to put these concepts into this law. This is a violation of human rights. Because of this, I'm just explaining it to those who haven't. At 78th Amendment, I propose, in the first part of article 11, the words "in court" should be replaced by the words "in accordance with the law." Because not only is there a judicial order, there are other things. So I'd like to write here "in the order established by law." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u51	The committee believes that the wording defined in the law is more legally balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u52	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 78. [[11:40:18]] For-29 Correction not supported. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u53	So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I was talking about the 79th Amazing Amendment. Here's a technical error, the committee rejected it, so there's a left column, and there's a right in the table. I ask 79 amendments to confirm by voting that it has been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u54	How is this confirmed by a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u55	So it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u56	If it is rejected by the committee, there is no need to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u57	And in the right column, technically, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u58	Well, technically, you'll get it right. Because if the author doesn't insist and we vote, we're gonna get confused.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u59	Yes, now 80 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u61	80 repairs to Sphinx. The Justice Department has given us an editorial detail, and the committee suggests that we take it into account. It's like, "In the event of a person's return, he's reinstated his ownership of the property. At the same time, a person is obliged to repay the amount of money he has received in connection with the alienation of property, the calculation of a reasonable payment for the use of the property. ” This is an editorial from Minustu, please support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm going to put to the vote the amendment that Alexander Mikolayovich just made is an amendment that the Ministry of Justice proposes to take into account. We need to vote on it. I'll put it to a vote. Take down the vote. Does Minust support this formulation? Minust supports it. I'll put it to a vote, please. [[11:42:14]] For 225 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a return to this amendment. [[11:42:36]] For 233 We're back. I'm voting on the proposal to support the amendment. Please vote. [[11:42:55]] For 239. Decision taken. Yes. Let's move on. Amendment 81, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin. Apparently, Minust will not support Karmazin’s offer because it is difficult for the Ministry to use 14 machines confiscated from other countries. And I would like to say, too, that this amendment should be supported. I propose, in the second part of article 11, that we replace "the decision of the court which has gained legal power" with "the decision of the body which is responsible for the administration of the property in accordance with the law." Because it is not always necessary to bring the matter to trial, we do not always have to wait for the decision to come to legal effect. And that's why I'd like to consider my amendment. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u64	81 amendments to the vote, please specify.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u65	The committee believes that taking these costs into account is very difficult economically.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u66	We're on our way. [[11:44:15]] For-24 Not supported. Sphinx, 83rd. Don't insist. 85th, his. Don't insist. Yavorowski, 86th. Don't insist. Tolstenko, 87th. Don't insist. Yes, Sphenov. Carmazine, '89.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin. I thank those who voted, who understands that it is not always necessary to bring them to justice. And sometimes the governing body can make decisions, and we will not bear the brunt of the abuse of people in the courts. But it's all the same. As a result, I propose in article 89, the amendment, paragraph 1, of the second article 14, to be made available in such an editorial. "In paragraph 2 of part six of article 353 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, after the words 'use of this property', add with the words 'and, if necessary, the cost of its renewal'. This is what guarantees constitutional law. If there is no property, add the words, "and if necessary, the cost of restoring it." Obviously, this is necessary for the restoration of a person’s right. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u68	89th is an amendment to the vote, please be determined. [[11:45:46.]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Hell, the '90s, don't insist. Strange, 91st. No, it's not. Tolstenko, 92nd. 93rd, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u69	93rd, Yuri Carmazin. I thank those deputies who supported the amendment. As a result, I propose in article 93, Amendment 93. It refers to replacing, in part two, in paragraph 2 of article 14, paragraph 2, the words “in court” with the words “in the order established by law”. Because there could be a court order, there could be another order. That is, the government may make a decision or another authority that administers property. Therefore, there is no need for judicial order. So I ask you to replace it with the words "in the order established by law." It is more widely understood and includes the court’s establishment. Why are we narrowing down our times and opportunities to protect our rights? Please support this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u70	She had already voted and had been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u71	93 amendments, the last amendment of Carmazin to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:47:13]] For-36 Not counted. Dear colleagues, the following amendments either do not insist, or are considered. The Chief Scientific and Legal Office believes that the bill needs to be further developed and re-readed. The committee requests the adoption of a law as a whole. So I'm voting on the committee's proposal to pass a law on transfer, forced alienation or removal of property under the legal regime of war or state of emergency. [[Registration number 7378]] Please vote. [[11:48:08]] For 261 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to protect domestic producers in response to discriminatory and/or unfriendly acts of foreign states, customs unions or economic groups. [[second reading]] [[Bill 8571 registration number]] A report by Alexei Vitaliovich Plotnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u72	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is drawn to the second reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on protection of domestic goods in response to discriminatory and/or unfriendly actions of foreign states, customs unions or economic groups submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill provides for amendments to Ukraine's Foreign Economics Act and the Single Customs Tariff, aimed at improving mechanisms to ensure the implementation of the legitimate rights and interests of Ukraine's external economic activities. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers it possible to accept it accordingly in the first reading and as a basis. The second read came with 5 suggestions from the national deputies, all rejected as useless or aggravating reactions. Thus, according to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the protection of domestic goods in response to discriminatory and/or unfriendly acts of foreign states of customs unions, or economic groups, is recommended to the Supreme Council for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law. That's all, if there are any comments about the amendments, I'm ready to respond to these comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u73	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, will we accept your amendments? Yes, please, Amendment 1, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, we have passed the previous law on the basis that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority directly wrote that it violates the Constitution. However, you did not read it or let it sound. As for the amendment to this law, article. My first amendment is that in the first part after the words "the activity of Ukraine," I propose to add the words "they violate the existing international agreements made in this field." This is obvious, for if we are talking about the discriminatory or unfriendly actions of foreign nations, customs unions, or economic groups, we should certainly refer to the international agreements that are made in this field. Not including this, in my opinion, is the theft of our system of legislation. I understand that your committee does not accept any other opinion of opposition. But we're going to express them because what he's doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u75	1 amendment shall be put to the vote, please specify. [[11:51:49]] For-35
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u76	"For" is 35, the amendment is not supported. Next amendment 2, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin. It's a shame you didn't support it, more loyally, only 35 people supported the 1 amendment, the opposition in the hall much more. I think we're mobilizing, and Mr. Chechetov will understand. Point 2 of the amendment, I propose a part of the second sentence to read: "In response to discriminatory or non-community actions by other States, customs unions or economic groups after an investigation has been carried out with a view to establishing acts of discrimination or non-community by other States, customs unions or economic groups in relation to the legitimate rights and interests of entities of external economic activity, measures are being taken to regulate the export and import operations of entities of external economic activity through the exercise of retorts in accordance with Ukraine's laws, international agreements, common standards, standards and international law." You see what the Russian Federation is doing to us right now: yesterday they said they wouldn't put gas through us, now they're claiming a war of cheese and so on. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u78	It's an amendment to the 2nd vote. [[11:53:24]] For-27 Correction not supported. Amendment 3 Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u79	Yuri Carmazin. It is a pity that the amendments were not supported. The 3rd amendment is completely editorial. I suggested in parts four and five that the word "he's members of the same" should be replaced by the word "he's members of the same." That is what we wrote in laws that apply to international relations. But also in such trifles, where it's obvious that there's a breach of legislation, and that's where you're rejecting this amendment. Although again, it's not a principle at all. If, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it doesn't matter to everyone, I don't even insist on her voting because I don't want to waste time on it. I just want to show you that most people are completely ignoring any kind of minority proposal, and they've led to Ukraine being isolated everywhere: both from Russia and from Europe and isolated everywhere. They will guide a little more, and they will do nothing in Enoch’s house, and they will hide there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u80	Thank you. I ask you not to insult the minority, because the minority does not make up 20 people -- much more. 4th Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, microphone. He's giving up on 4th?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin. The protectors of the Motherland will not refuse anyone, Vladimir Mikhailovich, against her protection. For as long as Ukraine is in place, we will not appoint defence ministers who came here in 1999 alone, who never took an oath of allegiance to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u82	By subject, by subject, by subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u83	And today they should be honored, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. As a result, my amendment relates to the fact that, in part seven of the second sentence, after the words "to their competence" should be supplemented by the words "and adequate to the extent of the damage to the economy of Ukraine." This change is made for everyone to count with Ukraine, to make Ukraine feel strong and to understand that they caused damage by their chatter in Miller, he reported yesterday that there was Medvedev that we were stealing gas. But put the counter on, show it at the border, and show it in mode all the time, all the time, and everything will be open. And Medvedev will see, and Miller will see.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u84	Thank you. Puts to the vote the 4th amendment. [[11:56:16]] For-38 Correction not supported. Everyone else is under consideration. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u85	Support me. I said that the committee proposes to support the second reading and in general, taking into account how we voted on the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, he disagreed with a number of comments made by the General Legal Department. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of domestic goods in response to discriminatory and/or unfriendly acts of foreign States, customs unions or economic groups. [[Registration number 8571]] Please vote. [[11:57:26]] For 270. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the offer that I think you'd be happy to support, given that we haven't worked for almost an hour, is not to take a break at 12 o'clock. Thank you for your unanimity support. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening administrative responsibility for the violation of traffic rules through rail and passenger transport by road is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8747]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vasil Mikolayovich Gritsak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues present! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement was prepared for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Strengthening Administrative Responsibility for Violations of Traffic Regulations by Rail and Passenger Transport by Road. The bill was adopted at the first reading on December 20, 2011. In preparing for the second reading, the bill was thoroughly worked out, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thus, the committee received 20 suggestions, of which 15 were taken into account in full, one in part, four were rejected. The purpose of the bill is to increase administrative responsibility for violating the rules on the movement of rail and passenger transport by road, especially during nighttime, and as a result to improve the safety of passenger transport, both by road and by rail, to preserve the lives and health of citizens, property and the mobile composition of road and rail transport, as well as to improve the impact on the discipline of road users. Dear colleagues. If you look at the contents of this bill, it is objectively reflecting, reflecting the problems that today are in violation of the Road Traffic Rules, and because its adoption, this law, is extremely important. The committee proposes to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill in second reading and as a whole as a law. The main legal administration of the table is set up without notice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! This is quite a disorder when the position of the committee and the administration coincided. A number of amendments are not counted. Perhaps the honourable colleagues, considering that the draft law is balanced, will we not insist on amendments? There's no way out. Yuri Carmazin, please, 6 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin. You know, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, when you're going to work, maybe there's no way we're going to work. When all the streets are laden as they are today, and every day the streets are covered, and people remember, you know, all the livers of all the presidents. Let the helicopter fly for the 100 million he's built. Let's get him down there faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u90	Is this about moving?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u91	But these adjustments need to be considered. So I suggest in the 6th amendment that part one, paragraph 2, should be left in its original form, in its original form, I repeat. In particular: "It entails imposing fines on civil servants, subjects of entrepreneurial activity, ranging from 20 to 25 untaxed minimums." This is due to the significant increase in sanctions proposed by the author of the project. I repeat, a significant increase. In view of the fact that article 53 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code defines fines for committing crimes between 30 and 1,000 untaxed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u92	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u93	Honourable Yuri Anatoliyovich, given that article 53 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code defines the amount of fines for committing crimes between 13 and 30 untaxed minimum rates of income for citizens. Installation in criminal sanctions. The administrative code of these proportions is illogical. Because in such a case, administrative misconduct, which, unlike crimes, is not socially dangerous, involves more serious responsibility than some crimes. I think it's impossible to accept that. Let's let the hall decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u94	Vote 6 of Yuri Karmazin's amendment. [[12:02:50]] For-30 Correction not supported. The 7th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand, then your voters thank you for what you are doing. You, the Criminal Code has been written since 30, and you set it here. And now you're doing the same thing, you're writing in the second part of the eighth paragraph the word "d40 to 50" to replace "50 to 60." I suggest you write "40 to 50," because in article 53 of the Criminal Code, the amount of fines for committing crimes is between 30 and 1,000. In the sanctions imposed by the Code on Administrative Offences of Such High Sizes, it seems to our state, with our wages, is completely illogical. It'll raise the corruption that is now, people will complain again, they'll go to court again. In such a case, the committing of wrongs, which are not so socially dangerous, provides for greater responsibility than for committing certain crimes. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u96	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, your amendment was considered very carefully by the members of the committee, and it was quite a heated discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u97	The vote is amended as follows: [[12:04:32]] For-44 Correction not supported. Amendment 9 Yuri Karmazin Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a second part of the tenth paragraph of this article, which reads as follows: "It entails imposing a fine on drivers from 30 to 40 untaxed minimum rates of income of citizens and on officials of natural persons who enter 40 to 50." So the words "entities of entrepreneurial activity" are replaced by the words "entrepreneurs" and the words "50 to 60" are replaced by the words "30 to 40", and the words "80 to 100" are replaced by the words "40 to 50." The reason for this is that, first of all, in article 133 prm. The code is the responsibility of citizens who are subject to entrepreneurial activities. That is what chapter 5 of the Ukrainian Civil Code defines this category of persons as a natural person who is an entrepreneur. In this regard, it is more appropriate to use this term in the bill. And I wonder why the legal authorities don't know that, they should know that. Second, the proposed changes involve a significant increase in sanctions. People have already since your reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u99	So, honourable national MPs, I'm giving an explanation for Carmazin's amendment. The rejected word "entrepreneur natural person" is used in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and only in two articles: 153 and 166-11. In other cases, as in the current version of article 133-1, the term "citizen subject of entrepreneurial activity" is used. We cannot make fragmented changes to individual parts of the individual articles. Because the concepts used in the code should be uniform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u100	Puts to the vote the 9th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u101	Please back up! [[12:06:41]] For-40 Correction not supported. Amendment 12. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin. A strange unification is being obtained, Your Honorable Vassil Mikhailovich. That's a very strange unification you're getting. Not everything is done the right way, but everything is done the wrong way. That's what Janukovic is doing right now. That's how you admit ministers! On Motherland's Day, I would like to say what oaths of loyalty Ukraine has not accepted and ruled by the Armed Forces of Ukraine today!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u103	You didn't take it, I know you took an oath, sir. That's why it's not up to you. But I propose a paragraph of the second part of the eleventh, which reads: "It entails imposing a fine on drivers from 45 to 60 untaxed minimum income of citizens and on officials, individuals, entrepreneurs from 60 to 70." I'll give you a reason. What the article says about the responsibility of citizens in entrepreneurial activities? I remind you that in the Civil Code this category is written: "physical person is an entrepreneur." The Civil Code has more power. And you have to watch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u104	Yuri Anatolyovich, we have also considered this amendment of yours. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u105	They've been looking at it badly! The material part needs to be taught!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u106	We'll learn, we will. We accept your suggestions. Not supported, not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u107	I'm willing to vote on the 12th amendment. [[12:08:31]] For-32 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 18, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you for taking 16 amendments to the committee. This was a thorough and serious amendment. As for article 18, amendment 18, I apologize, because I am already, you see, starting to talk. I propose in article 255, paragraph 11, of the second part, words and figures. Part two and part three of article 123, replace with words and figures, part one of article 123 and beyond. It is based on the fact that part two of article 255 of the Code on Administrative Violations defines the authority of the relevant officials to draw up reports on administrative offences that are referred to in articles 222, 244-19 of the Code. Taking into account the provisions of the law, the military inspectors of the military security of the military service of the armed forces must be referred to the cases envisaged only in the first article of article 123. This is due to what is happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u109	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Indeed, this amendment by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin is correct, but we must be determined in the hall. If we support Karmazin's amendment, we're violating 116 articles of the Supreme Council Rules Act. Let's move. I think it's a matter for the room to solve.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u110	18 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[12:10:33]] For-29 Correction not supported. All other amendments are included. Vasil Mikolaiovich, inspire the Supreme Council to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! We actually worked on the committee and worked on the bill for a long time. This bill is necessary for our nation. You've seen many times the moments that our media have shown, what's been happening on the bus rides, with the buses. Where there are gross violations and fairly insignificant punishments of drivers. I think so. And today I was interviewing the Council Channel and I was saying that not only should the driver be responsible, but the manager who released the car and the manager who got the license to do that. I think this law needs to be supported, and it needs to work immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to increase administrative responsibility for violations of the rules of movement through rail and passenger transport by road. [[8747 Registration Number]] Please vote. [[12:12:13]] For 358 The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 122 of the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing the Responsibility of Drivers of Vehicles for Violations of Traffic Regulations and Barriers for Route Vehicles. [[9028]] The rapporteur is Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legislative Security has been prepared for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 122 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of the Responsibility of Drivers of Vehicles for Violations of Traffic Regulations and Barriers for Road Vehicles. [[Registration number 9028]] The bill proposes to strengthen the administrative responsibility of drivers for violating the traffic rules and stopping on the lane for road vehicles by making appropriate changes to article 122 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations with a view to improving the impact on the discipline of road users and improving the functioning of public transport. The adoption of this law is expected to help prevent road safety offences, increase the level of accountability of citizens, strengthen the rule of law and train citizens in the spirit of perpetuating compliance with the requirements of legislation. In preparing the bill, there were 3 proposals for rereading to the committee, 2 of which were included, 1 rejected. The committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in second reading and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. The main legal administration of the table is set up without notice. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin, 2nd Amendment, not included. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you won't consider the amendment, but you have to hear it. In the chapter of the first draft of article 122 of the Code on Administrative Violations, in part one of the third sentences, delete the phrase "including violations of the rules of movement and stop on the lane for means of transport" and beyond. That's what I'm saying in terms of what's being proposed by the law to establish the administrative responsibility for any, I'm stressing, for any failure to give priority to the means of transport on the road, which is referred to in chapter 17. Next, three of the five sections of this section of traffic regulations contain restrictions on drivers of other means of transport, such as paragraph 17.1. prohibits the movement and stopping of other means of transport on a lane for the movement of road vehicles, paragraph 17.3. is preferred to trams when moving outside intersections, where trams cross the lane of non-rail vehicles, paragraph 17.4. requires drivers of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u116	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, according to the committee’s consideration of the amendments in question, was rejected, since it is believed that if these amendments are not accepted, there will be no exception to the position on the amendment. including breaking the rules on the lane for the means of transport, the contents of the bill are lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, at the request of the National MP, I am voting on Amendment No. 2, which was rejected by the Committee. Please make up your mind. [[12:16:05]] For-33 Correction not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. I would like to vote on the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending article 122 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the increase of the liability of drivers of vehicles for violations of the rules of movement and stopping on the lane for means of transport. [[9028 Registration Number]] Please vote. [[12:16:59]] For 329 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our turn to consider the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve confiscation procedures. At the same time, the Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill should be brought into conformity with the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. And there is also a letter from the Committee on Law Enforcement, requesting the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take a decision on the submission of a draft law for re-reading and re-reading. Is that why there's no objection? I'm voting on this proposal to the committee. Please vote. [[12:18:03]] For 291 Decision taken. Yes, I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Adaptation to Legal Persons and Property Rights of Individuals, registration number 2447. The rapporteur is deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Stepan Antonovich Davymuk. Please. After that, we will consider questions related to the appointment and release of judges, or at 12 o’clock 30 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine aimed at regulating the legal relationship arising from the use of names and names of individual names of eminent persons, the Jubilee and the Celebration dates, the names or dates of historical events adopted in the first reading in 2009. The bill included ten proposals that were taken into account in whole or in part. In the drafting of the bill, its name has been clarified, and it more fully reveals the content and issues that are regulated by the bill, namely, the question of how legal persons and property rights are assigned to individuals, as well as the assignment of Jubilee and Celebration dates, names or dates of historical events. This proposal is in line with the conclusion of the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It also takes into account the provisions of articles 4 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Management of Objects of State Property, according to which the National Academy of Sciences and the National Branch of the Academy of Sciences have the right to assign to their institutions the names of eminent scientists. The bill is harmonized and supported by the Ministry of Justice and will help to organize activities with regard to the assignment of legal persons names of natural persons, jewelry and holidays, names or dates of historical events. The committee considered and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u120	Honorable national MPs, amendments to all that are proposed by the people’s deputies, are taken into account either in full or in part. At the same time, the General Legal Office believes that the bill needs to be revised and re-readed. Let me put it this way, in accordance with the regulatory procedure, to the vote on the approval of the bill. In case of non-support, then there'll be a second proposal for re-reading. Is there no objection? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law on Adaptation to Legal Persons and Subjects of Property Rights of Individuals. Registration number 2447. [[12:21:26]] For 261 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, I now offer your attention. If the judges are ready, let us consider the question of judges. You're ready, aren't you? Ladies and gentlemen, then I have an offer: right now, according to the procedure, to consider the question of the election and release of judges. Is there no objection? Reports a member of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges Sokurenko Dmitry Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u121	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of that Act, and examined the referrals of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government bodies concerning the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who reached the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine at the time of the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, I submit a decision to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for judges on an indefinite basis. The following projects are proposed for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u122	10089.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u123	Select Svigunenko Julia Mikolayovna to serve as judge of the Bilopil District Court of the Suma Region. I would like to point out that, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Higher Qualifying Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of the activities of the judge of the Bilopil District Court of the Susma District of Svigunko Yulia Mikolayovna, reported by the Ukrainian National Deputy Danilenko at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on 9 February 2012. By a decision of the commission of October 31, 2011, Swirgunenko was recommended to serve as Judge of the Bilopil District Court of the Suma Region on an uninterrupted basis. Under the circumstances defined by law that prevent the appointment of a candidate, Svirunenko, for the term of office of a judge, is not established by the commission. An appeal regarding the activities of a candidate for the post of Judge Swirgunenko of the Ukrainian National Deputy Danilenko, who came to the Higher Qualifications Committee for the review of February 15, is at the stage of the examination and a decision will be considered and taken in accordance with the law. People's deputies, please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a certain conflict here. At the previous meeting, the national MP Danilenko made comments. I directed a proper appeal to the High Qualifying Commission of Judges. At the same time, the Senior Qualifications Committee of Judges suggests that the matter be considered on an open-ended basis. At the same time, an examination is being carried out of the comments made in the address of the Ukrainian National Deputy. So here we either need to make a consensus decision: postpone consideration for the next week or then vote first in favour of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges. Please, Danielenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u125	Dear National Deputies! Can I talk?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u126	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u127	I'm basically asking for more points, because there are two more materials to be considered by a qualified commission. So I'm asking you to move the matter back to the next plenary session before the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u128	The higher-skilled committee agrees with this proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u129	Let's agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u130	Postponement for the next plenary week. Then, dear colleagues, I don't think there's any need to vote here. Let's go. Kenzer, please, for that matter. Please, the microphone, Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u131	Kenzier, MP for Ukraine. Dmitri Mikhailovich, I have no questions about this draft ruling. But both I and the Levian wonder how the investigation of the crime of the judge of the Railway Court of Lviv Igor Ganić is taking place? You may know the matter. A judge has been caught by a bribe of $400,000, 400,000, I'm sorry, and it's been almost a year. Of course, what he does includes all the weights to settle the matter, but Lviv has not forgotten. The year has passed. What do the Higher Qualifying Commission, the Athentic Commission, the Higher Council of Justice do as soon as possible to vote in favour of removing the judicial immunity and arresting this man?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u132	Come on, dear fellows, this is how I propose. Dmitri Mikhailovich, give us the information in writing. I'll introduce her to the national deputies. Because now there's not gonna be an exact answer. And at what stage, in what process and when the final decision will be made, and in the Supreme Council. I think the parties agreed with that offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u133	All right, we're good.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u134	Now let's do the 10089-1 draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u135	I propose that the judges be elected on an untimely basis: Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Epel Oksana Volodymyrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u136	Yeah, let's keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u137	Uzhgorod District District District District District Court of Zakarpatsk Oleg Andriyovich; The Kyiv District Court of Odessa Kalinichenko Lubov Vasilovna; The Suvorov district court of Odessa Cinderella Olexija Stepanović; Obolon District Court of Kiev Scripnik Oksana Grigorovna; Kharkiv County Master's Court of Khuhar Natalia Mikolayovna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, no objection? I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for a draft decision on the selection of judges, registration number 10089-1. The draft decree is taken as a decree. Please vote. [[12:29:15]] For 270. Decision taken. Now, let's do the 10089-2 project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u139	I propose that the judges be elected on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Novoslovov Galina Hermanovna; The Krasnoggardsky District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Šukaleski Valentin Volodymyrovich; The New Moscow City Court of the Dnipropetrov Region of Oliynik Artem Viktorovich; The Solonian District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Ivanchenka Alexi Yuliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u140	Ivanchenka? Okay. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u141	The Ternish City Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Ponomarenko Ivan Petrovich; Tomakovsky District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Omek Mark Viktorovich; The Saxegan District Court of the Horn of Creature of Dnipropetrov district of Durasov Volodymyrna; The Artemian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of the Funeral Natal Mikolayevna; Constantine's District Court of the Donetsk Region of Malinova Alexandra Sergiyyovich; The Borodian District Court of Kyiv district of Unitický Dmitr Evgenović; The Krasnodon City Court of Luhansk district of Skripchenko Svetlana Mikolayevna; Rubižan City Court of Lugansk district of Tkajak Yuri Eisbergovich; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Zhukovsky Sergey Aleksandrovitch; The coastal district court of Odessa Suvorova Oksana Vasilovna; Moscow District Court of Kharkiv Long Titian Mikolayevna; The Canov City Court of the Cherka district of Burlak Oksana Volodymyrna; Koselec District Court of Chernigiv District of Koryod Yuri Mikolaiovich; The Bologna District Court of Kiev, Novak Andrija Vasilovich; The commercial court of Kyiv the Wise Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, this is how we will conduct the vote: we will remove the name Ivanchenka Alexi Yuliyovich, the Solonian District Court of the Dnipropetrov region. We're going to make a decision, and then we're going to make a specific decision on this. No objections? I'm betting on a motion for adoption by removing the name of Ivanchenka Aleksija Juriovich from the vote. [[Registration number 10089-2]] Please vote. [[12:31:55]] For 278 Decision taken. Taras Blackwall's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u143	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Regarding Judge Ivanchenka, several complaints have already been filed on a rather resonant occasion in this area. This is when Alekseiv’s U.S. citizen, who was in a state of drunkenness, suffered a fatal accident. [[And he was looking into it.]] And the behavior of the judge, her actions in court, have raised very serious warnings on this matter. I have referred the issue to a number of bodies, including our Justice Committee. I think at the moment, because there's no answer from anywhere else, it's probably worth delaying. And have the Justice Committee check this issue further.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u144	Ivanchenko Alexei Yuriovich at the microphone Please give a brief explanation on this subject, if possible. May I have your attention, please? And then the position of the High Qualifying Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u145	The case was violated under part two of article 286 of the Ukrainian Penal Code. The point of the matter. Alexeyeva, in fact, was in a state of drunkenness driving a car called VAZ-2101 and collided with Volkswagen Transporter. As a result, Volkswagen Transporter was injured by the health of a citizen of Stepanczuk and injured by death. The court did not call once for victims who appeared twice in court, nor did they appear again in court. A court hearing was called, according to the law in force, which is reported to them as having been given a court notice. Since the case was carried out by an auto-technical expert only on the testimony of the victim’s witness, the violation of criminal and procedural law. The court was commissioned to conduct a re-examination and commissioned to conduct a re-examination of the situation. It was found that the victim could not see from where he was the very scene of the crime. Therefore, the case was aimed at further investigation, taking into account all the claims of the injured party, which, I emphasize, never appeared at a court hearing. The patient called these. There's a message of service. They even suggested that there was a deliberate murder. All these circumstances have been taken into account, and the case is aimed at further investigation. The case is currently in the Dnipropetrov region’s Internal Affairs Department, where a thorough criminal investigation is being conducted. Right. The verdict was uncontested.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Mikhailovich, position of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u147	Well, if there are new complaints, I think it's better to look at them and then already.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, this is the offer. When there are no warnings, delay until the next Thursday, or plenary week, with the commission to study the matter so that we can make an objective and just decision. No objections? Thank you. Well, then, let's call it 10089-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u149	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Mr. Andrija Anatoliyovich; the Court of Appeal of Kiev, Gavrilo's Marina Valerievna; The Winnicki Administrative Court of Vatamańuk Ruslan Vasilovich; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Starov Nina Eduardovna; Donetsk’s Court of Appeal, Princess Natalia Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote a motion for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 10089-3]] Please vote. [[12:36:31]] For 274 Decision taken. Project Set 10089-4.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u151	Select Kirilenko Marina Alexievna to serve as Judge of the Berislav District Court of the Hersonian Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u152	Ubiquitous, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u153	Dear Dmitre Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, all factions! Here's a description that's confirmed at the courts of the Berislav District Court. Judge Kirilenko has a low professional level, a low level of theoretical knowledge in the field of law and judicial practice, and does not increase. It does not actually carry out the duties imposed by the law of Ukraine, which is not capable of solving professional tasks and so forth. And at the end of the day, I'm not going to talk about it any further, 229 criminal cases have been dealt with in five years, and the sentences and regulations 60 have been amended and cancelled. I contacted the head of the District Court of Appeal. He's really saying to me, "This is inappropriate, we don't know how to get rid of this judge." So what do we do, after all? A man who can't work, you're a man who can't work forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u154	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u155	You're offering it for life.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u156	Please take the position of the Higher Qualifying Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u157	The Higher Qualifications Committee, when recommending Kirilenko Marina Aleksyivni for a given position, could not find any grounds to deny it for recommendation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u158	Dear colleagues. Please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, the serious things have been said. [[I'm asking you to calm down!]] One in four things needs to be corrected, appeals plus these serious things. But according to the new legislation, we have one way out of this situation, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. In connection with the statement made by the national deputy, we have yet again to invite the Higher Qualifications Committee to consider these arguments, which have not been considered and then to return to the consideration of the matter. They will be re-entered, whether we consider, vote or not; they will not; they will change the judge's profile of their activities. Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u160	Dmitri Mikhailovich, I ask you to accept the suggestion that we do not create a colossal but only make the right and the right decision. Therefore, the suggestion is to postpone consideration of the matter, consider these materials that have just been published by the National MP, Catherine Samuelk, and make appropriate suggestions. Draft regulation 10089-5, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u161	Select judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: The Žitomir Administrative Court of Appeal, Monich Bogdan Silvestrovitch; Kyiv’s Court of Appeal, Jemelyanova Artura Stanislavovich; The court-martial of Kyiv Knyazkova Valerija Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u162	I'm betting on a motion for a ruling on the election of judges. Please vote. [[12:40:30.]] For 269 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome, on your behalf, the judges who have just been elected as judges on an untimely basis, and to wish them faithful service to the laws while enjoying good health and a calm heart as far as possible today. Your silence means greetings are accepted, right? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite the head of the High Council of Justice, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Kolesnick, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u163	Good day to you! Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished National Deputies, Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 7 February this year, in accordance with the third part of article 126 of article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges of Ukraine, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice considered the application of the Coastal Basil Josephovich to release him from office of judge of the Royal District Court of the city of Žitomir in view of the inability to exercise her powers of health and decided to submit him accordingly to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. His actual will is explained in the judge’s statement, and there is no foreign influence, and the state of health is such that he needs immediate release. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u164	Please, Oleg Lazko. Then there's Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u165	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, last session.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u166	Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u167	I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. At the previous session, when the question was considered by the judges, you had my parliamentary request to the High Council of Justice for the release of the judges of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, which is being judged by Lucenka, and the judge of Timoshenko, Kiriev. It's been ten days since the law, and there's still no answer. I ask in the head now of the High Council of Justice, how many of these murderers in the judiciary, Kiriev and Vuk, how many will they sit in the cave trial, how much will they discredit Ukrainian justice when they are released from office and brought to criminal responsibility for carrying out political orders for the conviction of Yulia Timoshenko, after the trial of Yuri Lucenk and other political prisoners?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u168	I would like to explain the following, in accordance with the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and the changes made to the Law, in relation to the recommendations of the High Council. The Venice Commission, it has been decided that we, the Supreme Council of Justice, are not in a position to carry out checks and require any material during the substantive consideration of the matter. Lucenko's case is in the court of first instance, according to Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovny is in the Supreme Specialised Court. As soon as the trial is concluded, we will return to the matter in accordance with the Rules and the Law on the Superior Council of Justice, and a decision will be taken in accordance with the applicable legislation. Some comments on their guilt, innocence today, as head of the High Council of Justice, I cannot comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u169	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich! I address you as the head of the High Council of Justice and address the Head of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear highest officials of the state, I have, from this rostrum where you are now, repeatedly stressed and published the fact that there is an incident in Ukraine that is nowhere in Europe. Since 2004, he has led the Kharkiv Court of Appeal and is now the judge of this court, Borodin Mikhailovich. Since 2004, he has not been a citizen of Ukraine. I repeat, all the decisions, the verdicts he's given must be declared illegal, we must take action, and he must be released for breaking his oath. So far, we've been paying this foreigner Ukrainian salary, by the way, an extremely high salary. As for Judge Vuka, he, you know, sounded those witnesses who are alive, healthy, who are in the Ministry of Defense, broke his oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u172	On Borodin, I can say that, indeed, such an appeal to the High Council of Justice has come. After you had spoken, measures were taken. He ceased to be the head of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal. The materials were sent to the prosecutor’s office. And it had to be in line with articles 95, 97 of the Criminal Procedure Code to decide whether there were signs of crime in its actions. No such reports were received from the prosecutor’s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u173	What about breaking an oath?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u174	If there is a breach of an oath in this case, we should do some checking. The prosecution should have done so. I'll let you know more about the measures taken and after consulting the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision about getting the judge out of office. I'm voting for a motion for a Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the dismissal of a judge. [[Registration number 10095]] Please vote. [[12:46:40]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We continue to consider drafts in the second reading mode. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms. [[on the production control mechanism containing GMOs]] The rapporteur is Davemuk Stepan Antonovich, deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u176	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and adopted in the first reading last September. The bill is aimed at developing a system in Ukraine for tracking genetically modified organisms and creating an infrastructure that ensures biological and genetic safety, implementation and use in an open system of products that contains GMOs, which is extremely relevant and important for Ukraine. The bill provides for the introduction of rules for the declaration of new products by operators containing GMOs, for the creation of a network of test laboratories at their circulation, and for the creation and task of the GMO Testing Science and Methodological Centre. The second reading received five suggestions from the national deputies. Four proposals are fully taken into account, and one offer from colleague Yuri Carmazin is partially taken into account. In the drafting of the bill, partial comments are taken into account by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. Yes, the mandate of the GM Scientific and Methodological Centre for Testing from article 11 was transferred to article 15.1 as follows: "State control of GMO circulation and GMO products". The bill is in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Health, the National Academy of Sciences. In general, all ministries supported the bill. The Committee has considered proposals and comments that have come to the bill, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a whole as a law. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u177	Honorable national MPs, practically all proposals taken into account in whole or in part, more specifically, all counted in whole or in part. So I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a law, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms. [[on the production control mechanism containing GMOs]] [[Registration number 8494]] Please vote. [[12:50:10]] For 324 Decision taken. I mean, the law's approved. I am announcing a draft Act on the characteristics of the formation of a state-owned public limited liability association for general use rail transport. [[9337]] The rapporteur is the head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Mikhailo Ivanovich Mironenko. Please, Mikhail Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the legislators, are preparing for a second reading of a comparative table for the draft law on the characteristics of the formation of a state-owned public limited liability company for general use, introduced by Cabinet of Ministers at number 9337 and accepted as the basis on December 9, 2011. I remind you that the second reading from the legislators received 89 suggestions and amendments, including 36 included, one included in part, and 52 rejected. On second reading, 25 amendments have been voted on. In preparation for the comparative table, 15 proposals and amendments were added to the second reading of the legislative initiative, with 8 counted and 7 rejected. The committee takes into account and partially takes into account the observations made by the General Legal Authority and introduces appropriate regulations aimed at improving the organisational and legal conditions for the future functioning of the Society. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u179	Let's do some repairs. 16 revisions. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment No. 16 refers to what I propose in part seven of article 2 after the first sentence to add to the following sentence: "This list is subject to publication in an official printed edition by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and on its official website." Clearly, this is about enterprises where there is now a stable, thriving railway, which willfully, it is being done to make it move. You know that cars are already being distributed to six businesses without any competition, you know that other things are not being evaluated. That's why I'm speaking out loud, and I think this is the most evil we're looking at in this room today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u181	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 16 Yuri Karmazin. [[12:53:36]] For-23 Correction not supported. Amendment 17 Yuri Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin. I insist and will keep talking about this law as a law that contradicts Ukraine's national security. You see, Estonia sold it -- already bought it back, privatized it. Germany is a colossal problem, England is a colossal problem. And we, Ukraine, are on these rakes, because it's convenient for everything to become Lemstrasse, that everything becomes Cossack, that everything has become Adventure, that everything has become the other names that are now in Medjugorje. I suggest in part eight that you delete paragraph five, namely: "The conduct of an audit of the financial reporting of railway undertakings." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u183	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u184	Please back up! [[12:54:55]] For-23 Correction not supported. Amendment 19. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u185	Yuri Carmazin. After part nine of the proposal, add a new part of the tenth sentence: "Since the date of the decision to form a company, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is obliged to ensure that the inventory is carried out, that the valuation of the value of the property transferred to the statutory capital of the society is carried out according to the requirements of the current legislation." This is based on the fact that, in order to clarify government powers in the creation of societies, the bill should provide for a mandatory financial assessment of the assets of the Crucified Railways and railway undertakings to be transferred to the statutory capital of the Society. Because failure to do so could lead to a misassessment of property, of the financial situation of enterprises, which would in turn contribute to the illegal alienation of state property, not fully transferred to the statutory capital of the new society. And he's going to take his property from all of the Ukrainian people. It's the third largest asset in the world and the pipelines of the gas transport system that they're trying to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u186	This vote shall be voted on by the 19th Amendment. [[12:56:26]] For-29 Correction not supported. Next amendment 23 Yuri Karmazin Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin. I thank the opposition, thank you also to several representatives of the Communist Party, who supported my amendments aimed at keeping Ukrainian property from being torn apart. I propose in article 3, paragraph 2, to delete the words "the value of which is more than 5 per cent of the balance sheet of assets of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine and railway undertakings on the date of approval of the last balance sheet report. This is due to the changes I have made in order to prevent the alienation of State property in large quantities, the inefficiency of reorganizing railway transport, and the opacity of these processes. Because the proposed regulation can lead to the alienation of strategically important objects. 5 percent is a significant part. And it is not appropriate to allow businesses themselves, institutions, organizations without the consent of any body to sell property in such quantities. It is worth noting that the bill does not provide for a mandatory financial valuation of the assets of the Railroads and railway undertakings for the stated purposes. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u188	I bet on the vote of amendment 23. [[12:58:00]] For-43 Correction not accepted. Amendment 30, Ribakov. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Next. 33rd, do you insist? No, it's not. 34-a, neither. 35th, no. 37th. Kowzel, are you insisting on her? I can't see. Carmazine, 38th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u189	Yuri Carmazin. I propose in article 9 that the exclusion of a part of a second that speaks of the administration of corporate rights of a State transferred to the statutory capital of society is carried out by society. And I want you to understand that a state railway is an extremely powerful enterprise. Let me give you a name. We still have 174 thousand 939 trucks today. We still have 1,684 stations. We still have 126 main stations. We still have 30,000 miles of roads. We still have 2,000 718 heat trucks, 1796 electric cars, 1,186 diesel trains, and we still have 375,000 people working there. This is what we want to destroy today by adopting this law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u190	Jury Karmazin's 38th amendment is put to the vote. [[13:00:03]] For-41 Correction not supported. 42nd. Taras Cranville. Are you insisting on her? I can't see. Carmazine, 44th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In the 44th Amendment, I propose in Article 10, paragraph 2, of Part Two 4 to read: "Costs received by a company from transactions in property, with the exception of immovable property, are directed exclusively at carrying out statutory activities of the company. Costs received by the company from real estate operations are directed to the general fund of the Ukrainian budget." I want you to realize that we're talking about a colossal empire that has hospitals that have their own kindergartens that have their own factories. [[They must not be destroyed.]] [[There's still 12 left on the train.]] I don't have time to count everything. That's why I'm asking you to consider the amendment. I'm turning to the opposition. Voting for this law or not trying to enact it is a betrayal of the country. That's why I'm asking you to block the adoption of this law because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u192	44 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[13:01:42]] For-65 It's not working. Next amendment, 46th, Yuri Carmazin. 46th, 47th, 48th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the authorities have listened to me, and I mean part of the right flank, the Communists. And, thank God, I see that they have the right approach, they don't want to destroy it all. I suggest you put the first part in this line: "This law takes effect from 1 January 2013." Then the democratic opposition will prevail, and we will not let it enter into force. These changes have been made to reconcile the bill with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code. The taking of effect of such a law from the date of publication is contrary to the requirements of part three of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which the laws of Ukraine or their individual positions that affect the budgetary indicators – and they will reduce the budget's coming – are adopted after the 15th of July, which is ahead of schedule, and are in place not earlier than the beginning of the budget period, which is scheduled. Because the implementation of the act requires budget spending because it's so massive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u194	I'm betting on a vote of 46. [[13:03:16]] For-66 Correction not accepted. 48 Amendment, Yuri Carmazina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u195	47 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u196	We voted her, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u197	We voted 46th and 47th, yes. But it says so here, you see, two of them. 48 revisions, that's right. I propose to rule out, in the 48th amendment, the deletion of part two, namely: "The laws and other legal acts adopted to take effect by this law are in effect in a part which is not contrary to this law." This law, I remind you, has not gone through anti-crime and anti-corruption expertise. Imagine the purpose of adopting laws if they are optional even for the Supreme Council of Ukraine? You and I have adopted the Law on the Obligation of Expertise. I have addressed President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, and I have so far addressed Prime Minister Azarov, who I think should flee from Ukraine to Austria, where he owns his son and all other supporters! That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u198	Amendment 48 shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u199	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u200	[[13:04:48]] For-53 Correction not supported. Correction next. Yeah, Carmazine's amendment number 68.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u201	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u202	68th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u203	68 amendment, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I suggest in part five that you delete paragraph four. What's going on here? In the paragraph of the First Chapter of the Seventh Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Payability of the Debtor, or the Recognition of It by Bankruptcy, the following point is added: "The provisions of this Act shall not apply to undertakings, institutions and organizations of the railway transport of general use which is being restructured." I think these amendments have a corrupt component. This part right over here is paragraph four. The first section of the 7th Transitional Regulations. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. When, in the end, will we implement the Law on Obligations of Anti-Corruption Expertise? Because the responsibility lies with the manager, Vladimir Mikhailovich, who you will need.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u204	Honourable MPs, amendment 68 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[13:06:45]] For-47 Correction not accepted. Regarding the comments made by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, I inform you that the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted this bill with full, absolute responsibility for its contents, and accordingly, the committees should also study to comply with the laws. The next amendment of Yuri Carmazin is the 71st. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u205	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, part three of article 15 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Act, which took effect on July 1, last year, says that mandatory anti-corruption expertise is subject to draft laws of Ukraine, acts of the President and so forth that are being developed. This was not done. You correctly say that Azarov answers because he brought it in. But you and I are responsible for not returning this bill as one that has been enacted in violation of this article of the law without anti-corruption expertise. And those who now give the command not to vote in favour of Karmazin's amendments and those who give the command to vote in favour of corruption should also be responsible for violating the anti-corruption law as corrupters. As a result, think of it, Your Honor, your life will be closed if you vote for these laws. And I suggest we delete paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take into account the warning given by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, and now to vote for 71 amendments. Please. [[13:08:50]] For-50 Correction not supported. Next amendment to Morocco, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u207	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u208	Seventy-five, it's counted. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u209	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, including amendment 75, where the Cabinet of Ministers is like, you know, the soles that they have now spread the wagons, first 10,000, then 40,000 wagons. Come on, think about it! A thousand pieces were laid out in their pockets. First Lemtrans is 250 units if you look at 40 pieces and now everybody else. And now this amendment provides for proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Law on the List of Property Rights Objects That Are Not Privatized. So far there's this law signed by the President, it's working, it's a guarantee that you won't be torn apart. And if you're torn apart, you'll visit. And if we accept such an amendment, I insist that we vote for it. Come on, Mr. Chechetov, team to your Yanks, and then let's see what happens next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u210	Yuri Anatolyovich, dear colleagues! I'm asking you to keep some words there, please. We're colleagues, and we work in the session room -- we don't have to. Yuri Anatolyovich, please don't shout. You can say the same thing peacefully without labels. Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u211	You can't talk calmly, but nobody wants to support the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u212	Take it easy. 75 amendments to the Committee are included. A national MP requires that this amendment be made for confirmation. I'm voting for 75 amendments. Please vote. [[13:11:25]] For 231 Correction accepted. The factions? Please. Don't yell, please. Region Party – 183, "BUT – "Fathership" – 2, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 3, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 12, non-factional – 11. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of the draft Law on the Specificities of the Establishment of a State Shareholder Association for the General Use of Rail Transport to Adopt It in a Second Reading and Overall as a Law. There are a number of observations by the legal authorities. The Committee considers that it has no reason to support them. So the first vote is the committee's proposal, once again, on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law of the Law on the Specialities of the Establishment of a State Shareholder Society for the General Use of Rail Transport. [[Registration number 9337]] Please vote. [[13:12:42]] For 232 The law is passed. Thank you. I am announcing before the review the draft Act on Amendments. The factions? Please. Region Party – 180, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 16, non-fractional – 11. The draft Law amending the Law on Rail Transport of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the delimitation of the functions of the public and commercial administration of the industry]] [[Registration number 9377]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the legislators, have been prepared for a second re-reading of the comparative table in the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Rail Transport, introduced by Cabinet of Ministers at 9377, adopted on 9 December 2011. [[on the delimitation of the functions of the public and commercial administration of the industry]] From the legislators to the committee, there were only 31 proposals and amendments, 7 of them to read again. Of these, 12 are included, 16 are rejected, one is taken into account in editorial terms and one is partially counted. Since the bill provides for amendments to the Rail Transport Act to reconcile its provisions with the draft law on the specificities of the establishment of a state-owned general-use railway association, only amendments to the editorial and technical nature of the amendments proposed for the text of Bill 9337 have been taken into account accordingly. [[No. 9337]] A number of clarifying amendments were made to the text of the bill, which was completed before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, according to regulations. Kowzel, 2nd Amendment. Are you insisting on her? I can't see. Yeah, four-a, Cowzel, no. What amendment do you want? 3 milieu repairs included. Please, Yuri Odarchenko, microphone. I, my dear colleagues, ask you to focus. We don't have a lot of decisions to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, this is a key amendment to this project. Here the Party of Regions proposes to remove the word "state" from the status of "districts" and thus open the way to its acquisition. Colleagues, several generations of Ukrainians, built this railway. Most people have no right to touch it with their dirty hands. It was not built for you, but for the people of Ukraine. I am firmly opposed to any attempt to privatize the Crucifixion. We must preserve this strategic object in state ownership. I ask you to vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, the committee's amendment is supported. Therefore, this amendment should be put to the vote, at the request of the national MP, to confirm it. What I'm doing, and I'm asking the MPs, vote. [[13:16:31]] For 231 Correction confirmed. The following changes. Yuri Carmazin, 5th Amendment, 6th Amendment, 7th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u217	Yuri Carmazin. You know, it's very sad that we're putting this law under the previous law, even though that law has not yet been passed. And I think the President will stop when half a million people who work and are connected to the railway. When tens of millions of people see the price of railway tickets rising to carry goods that have already risen. 33 percent already rose in transit prices, 50 percent in inland transport. Here's what's happening during this run by Cossack Railway and the country's Party of Regions. Or one region, I'm sorry, Anakiyevsky. One region only governs the country. So I propose, throughout the text of the bill, that the word "at the Crucifixion" should be changed to the words "State Association for Rail Transport General Use" in the appropriate wording. Throughout the text, I repeat, it's not spread all over the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u218	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 5 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:18:06]] For-82 Correction not supported. Amendments 6 and 7 of Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u219	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank those 82 deputies who voted in favour. I would also like to tell you that the previous vote, the previous law, the adoption of it became possible only because they voted in favour of those forces that were chosen on other lists that voted in favour of democratic programs. This is because so-called parliamentary "baskets" and parliamentary "invisibles" are voting. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we haven't removed the missing card today -- those who didn't sign up at the registration tables today. And of those who vote today, there are more than 30 of them, the honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would ask you to give a task to the regulatory committee now, both you and the Apparatus, because I'm going to be asking questions about the unconstitutional adoption of this law. As you mentioned the Constitution to you, you see, it didn't work. Please vote for my amendment. All the corrections are smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u220	I ask the Committee on Rules, MPs and the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study Yuri Karmazin's application. I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 6. [[13:19:53]] Z-62 Correction not supported. Amendment number seven, one minute, please, Amendment number seven of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u221	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank all those who have supported the amendment. And I turn to those who say today: "We're slaves, we can't, we don't have a voice." You are national deputies when you put on your badges and came here and took an oath of allegiance to the Ukrainian people. And voting for these shameful laws is a violation of this oath. This is a direct violation that will certainly entail responsibility under the Criminal Code. I ask everyone to remember this. There was no anti-crime, anti-corruption expertise. You're pushing this law now. I propose that part two of article two be left in the correct order, i.e. not to replace the word "railway" with the word "railway transport business." And what I want to say is that the late Kirpa, who was doing everything for the railway to thrive, if he now knew what was going on in order to break this law, I found even the buckles he had given me on my birthday and today specifically brought in so that even his buckles would help to break this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u222	Amendment 7 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[13:21:30.]] Z-71 Correction not supported. Please, Yuri Odarchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u223	Dear colleagues! I ask that you pay attention to this amendment. We certainly have no right to support this shameful amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u224	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u225	Amendment No. 8 Mironnenka. Dear friends! Now, look what's going to happen. Chechchev will now wave his hand and we'll lose the Crucifixion. Now, look at this beautiful hand that will cost the people of Ukraine the entire Crucifixion! I'm asking all of you to pay attention to this. Don't be an MP, and he'll wave his hand and we'll lose her. Dear friends! The Skruzalznica is to belong to the Ukrainian people, the population of the Ukrainian state. Not to oligarchs from Russia, not from the budget or from the Bank, but from the people of Ukraine. Do not touch the objects that our country really needs! You have already stolen more than you need for the rest of your life! I'd like all conscious MPs to press the "No" button.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u226	Dear colleagues! Dear colleague, I'm in a hurry to calm you down. No one will waver because the amendment has already been counted and there is no need to vote for it for the second time. Just a minute. Just a minute. The amendment is taken into account, it shall no longer be voted on. The following are the amendments, please. With 231 votes, this amendment is confirmed by the Supreme Council. Well, dear colleagues, please. Please. Replace it with a word. One minute, it's "state" to replace the word "public" -- it's voted. I'm begging you! Everyone else, please be careful. But what's not going is not going. The following amendments, please. 12th Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u227	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It was very bad that Odarchenk’s amendment had not been amended, which suggested that the amendments made on behalf of the People’s Deputies of Mironka should be repealed. I think it's a terrible correction and not all the text. From the point of view of the Odarchenko Rules, Vladimir Mikhajlovich was right. And I'd like to put it to a vote: Part of Article 4 delete the words "government of public property." This is in order to reconcile the bill with a related bill that has just been passed, 9337, which also identifies matters of governance of public property and where these matters are dealt with differently. It should also be borne in mind that the issue of the administration of public property objects is already regulated in detail by the Ukrainian Code of Masters, the Ukrainian Act on the Management of State Property Objects, and therefore my amendment should be taken into account. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, vote on Amendment 12. Yuri Anatolyevich reasoned on the need to accept it. [[13:24:57]] For-58 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 14 of Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u229	Yuri Carmazin. I propose in Amendment 14 in the title of the article and in the first part of the word "railway transport enterprises" to replace the words "State Shareholders Association for Rail Transport General Use and its Separate Units" with the text. This one will be in line with the essence of the law that was introduced at first, and then the appetites came along during the meal. And sent forth the law for a second reading again: think, for what? Why, then, did Vladimir Mikhailovich, in your mind, lie the law on a second reading? And to make even worse amendments than they were made to the first and second reading, that's why this was made. That's why I'm proposing to take my 14th amendment into account. Thank you to the distinguished Communist colleagues who are voting in favour and the opposition that is voting against this robbery law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u230	Vote number 14, Yuri Carmazin. [[13:26:28]] For-68 Correction not supported. 15 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u231	The 15th amendment also, honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, refers to what I propose in part three in the second sentence, the word "railway transport undertakings" should be replaced by the words "separate units of the State Shareholders Association for the General Use of Rail Transport". Think about how many of these companies we have. I'll call you the Darnicke Wagon Repair Plant. Iron concrete plant, Corestinsk Iron concrete plant, Kremenchuck Iron concrete plant, Pásnjan Wagon repair plant, Strysk State Wagon Repair plant, Starocostinian Railway Spa plant. And these are the unifications of the goal: Ukrainian State Railway Refrigeratory Transport Center I want you to know that we still have 110 different routes here, 63 different signals and connections, 43 different power stations. So, honourable national MPs, you have to write down correctly, then do inventory, and then this power goes, that is, we do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u232	Honorable National MPs, 15 amendments are made to the vote. [[13:28:00]] For-68 Correction not supported. Amendment of Yuri Carmazin, number 18. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u233	Yuri Carmazin. I thank all the MPs who understand their responsibility to the next generation and to the present generation, who understands that railway tickets will now be raised three times, that it will no longer be a social form of protection. Who realizes that today only a handful of those who sit in Medjugorje or play tennis together are being enriched? I'm talking about the clear owners of those companies that went to the Crucifixion Management today, this powerful resource. I am addressing the Attorney General of Ukraine, why have criminal cases not yet been resolved on my parliamentary motions and appeals, on the articles published in the "Lewis Bank" in "The Mirror of the Week"? Why don't you do it, Victor Pavlovich Pshonka? I suggest in article 10 that you exclude part two, namely: "Economic relations between AT "Urzlzliznica" and its subsidiaries, the order of interaction between them, including the distribution of income from transportation, the calculation of services.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u234	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u235	.calculations related to centralized supply of goods and materials, non-conservation of installation, damage to general rail transport facilities, repair of moving warehouses, production of spare parts, and installation of transport equipment and their free transfer between the specified entities without altering the form of ownership shall be carried out taking into account the only technology to be used."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u236	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 18 amendments shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u237	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u238	[[13:30:03]] For-63 Correction not supported. Amendment 23 Kulczynski, Cibenko, Suskevich Who's going to do the show? Culchinski is Mikola? Don't you insist? Suskevich, 25th. Don't insist. Yuri Carmazin, 26th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u239	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that six railways, 27 railways, 1,684 stations, 126 train stations, 68 locomotive depots, 51 wagon depots, 16 passenger depots, 43 electricity stations, everything's going to go, now it's going to go into private hands. Everything is already being done against road safety, and the cost is already reduced, and that puts our citizens at risk. This is why I propose in part 1 of article 18 that the word "business" should be replaced by the word "State Shareholders Association of Rail Transport General Use and its Separate Units". This is consistent with the existing legislation, the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u240	The vote is amended by 26, author Yuri Karmazin. [[13:31:47]] Z-77 Correction not supported. 28 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u241	Yuri Carmazin. Can I have the 27th amendment first, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u242	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u243	27 Amendments taken into account by the Committee. The amendment states that the words "central executive authority to ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of transport, road agriculture, tourism and infrastructure" should be replaced by the words "central executive authority to ensure the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of transport." You understand very well that there will be no State policy in the field of road agriculture, no infrastructure, no policy that has been pursued until Mr. Kozak, who hid after the first arrival of Prime Minister Janukovich, was transferred to the company Lectrans, a bunch of wagons when the contracts were concluded. Then the prosecutor’s office handled the cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Amendment 27 is supported by the committee. At the same time, the national MP insists that it be put to the vote for confirmation. I'm putting to the vote the 27th amendment, please vote. [[13:33:36]] For the 220. Correction not supported. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues! If there are no votes, there is no vote on the return vote. Please vote. Don't yell at them. [[13:34:10]] For 235 We're back. I'll bet you a vote. I'm asking you, dear colleagues, please. I'm voting on the 27th amendment. [[13:34:38]] For 238. Confirmed amendment. Amendment 29, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u245	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I want you to look again at the overseas experiences, see what this leads to, I tell you, even countries like Britain, even countries like Germany have failed to deal with these projects, even Estonia and bought them, at a price almost three times more expensive than I sold to let you know, the railway. But their railway wasn't as powerful, it wasn't the state we had, it was much weaker, and we're still taking it, and now we're taking it. As a result, in the title of the article, I propose that the words "railway undertakings" be replaced by the words "segregated units of the State Shareholders Association of Rail Transport General Use." Ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk about people's ability to use them. Because when prices go up, people won't be able to use them. What are you doing? Why? I don't want it to be worse for the citizens, they can't go anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u246	Amendment 29 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[13:36:14]] For-53 Correction not supported. Amendment 30. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u247	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you not to make an amendment, because there is no understanding, no one wants to read a comment from the expert board, which clearly in the previous law wrote that it is in conflict with the Constitution, is contrary to the basic laws of Ukraine. And these are laws that are similar to how we adopted the Crucifixion. Those who do not remember, look now at the effects of the activities of those enterprises, such as government property, which according to the Constitution was owned by the entire nation, suddenly found itself in several oligarchs, all three of them. So you don't have to put Vladimir Mikhailovich to the vote. I'm just telling you that this law is going to bury the railroad, just like the preparations for its adoption have already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u248	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Odarchenko, microphone. 31st?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u249	Yeah. Dear friends, I ask 31 amendments to be made for confirmation. My friends, what's going on, we're handing over the Crucifixion, so remember how England came out of the post-war crisis? Only because there was ownership of rail transport did they get loans and get their country out of the postwar crisis. We are now doing everything we can to make the crisis that is developing economically in Ukraine worse by these decisions. Guys, I'm on it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, by the way, you were wrong about Amendment 8 and Number 9. But now we will see this hand that will with a wise gesture lift it up and give it the iron roads, the national property, to the property of the people who are in power today. I'm asking you to place this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u250	Okay. Dear National Deputies, Amendment 31 is counted by the Committee. In connection with the insistence of the National MP, I am voting on the proposal to confirm amendment number 31. Please vote. [[13:38:55]] For 234 Correction confirmed. The honourable national deputies, the committee, and the Chief Legal Authority made a number of remarks to the bill. The committee considered them and did not take them all into account. That's why I'm putting to your attention that there is a note by the Chief Legal Authority and I'm voting for a proposal by the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Rail Transport Act. [[on the delimitation of the functions of the public and commercial administration of the industry]] [[Registration number 9377]] Please vote. [[13:39:48]] For 239. The law is passed. The factions? Please use fractions: The Party of Regions – 186, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 16, non-fractional – 12. Yes, dear fellows. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. What deputized MP?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u251	Deprived MP Leluk, his card is now in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u252	I'm asking you to lock down Deputy Leluk's card. I said in the morning, lock down Leluk's card. Well, if you have not been able to do the controls, please do the work immediately. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts on State control over land use and protection is under review. [[on administrative reform measures]] I'm told there's no card, I'm asking the secretariat to check and give me information. The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Roman Tkac. Please, Roman Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u253	Good day, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations and supported by the meeting on 7.02.2012, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on State control over land use and protection. [[on administrative reform measures]] Registration number 9558. So first of all, I want to remind you briefly and say that this bill is strictly technical. I would like to remind you that in the process of implementing administrative reform in Ukraine, a government inspection of Ukraine's agriculture was established. To which the functions of State control over the use and protection of land previously carried out by the authorities of the State Commission have been assigned, this has been done in accordance with the Presidential Decree of Ukraine. However, the said inspection cannot today implement the comments given to it, since the laws still contain the old name of the controlling body. Therefore, this situation needs to be rectified. The second reading, the bill, was amended by the Ukrainian National Deputies, with 34 amendments, 9 of them counted and 25 rejected. The amendments supported are aimed at taking into account the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. We've analyzed the deviations, and if they're all broken down into three groups. First group. Amendments by Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin, who proposes to leave the functions of control over the protection and use of the land of the State. But, as I said earlier, these functions are already placed on the forcespection that is subordinated to the Minagropolitics. Second block of amendments. Amendments to Ukraine’s national deputies Seminoga, Spenov and Glazunova, who propose a thorough review of the authority of Ukraine’s State Environmental Inspection. But if we start doing so, we will violate article 116 of the Rules. Because there was no such thing in the first reading. And the third. Amendments to the Ukrainian national deputy Boris Dach, who proposes to give authority in Crimea to the executive authority of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, with State control over the use and protection of land. I want to say that these powers, for today under current legislation, have been attributed to the central authorities of the executive branch. And the authorization of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea -- they're not foresight. I would like to point out once again that the bill does not change the powers of the authorities, but we simply agree on their name according to the administrative reform measures. And as for the rejected amendments, I'll point out that they're essentially supported. However, the powers to determine the structure of the executive authorities and their powers under the Ukrainian Constitution are vested in the President of Ukraine. In general, the bill is balanced. And that's why I think you can go through the amendments and then vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u254	Yes, dear colleagues, we will consider the amendments. Amendment 5, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u255	After amendment 5, I agree with the committee. Actually, I want to say that Roman Volodymyrovich came to this very carefully. I'll stand for Amendment 7. 5 I do not consider it necessary to put the amendment to the vote. And on the 7th, please prepare a committee, maybe you'll listen to my arguments that I'm going to make right now. In general, the law is very serious and well worked by the committee. It's rare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u256	Thank you. Anatoly Seminoga, 6th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Roman Volodymyrovich, well, I don't quite agree with your treatise that you've really written the law. The law was drafted in accordance with the President’s decree on the distribution of powers according to administrative reform. And unfortunately, for the amendments that I'm making, it's not just my amendments, it's the decision of the Committee on Environmental Policy. The point is that really today's function of protecting and using land, in our view, should be divorced. It is not possible to use one structure and use the land, exploit it, and control environmental protection, land protection. Therefore, land protection powers always belonged to the Ministry of Ecology. And we are convinced that the committee believes that this function should be left behind by the committee, by the ministry. And this same law, as you propose, this function is eliminated. So I propose to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u258	Amendment 6 of Anatolia Seminoga is put to the vote. [[13:46:07]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. 7th Amendment, Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u259	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! I propose changes to the Ukraine Land Protection Act, which I stress are being amended by the Land Protection Act! Paragraph 4 of Article 16 does not exclude or delete the following edition. Since the previous amendment was taken into account where I was concerned, it was taken into account. Therefore, the exercise of State control over land use. It is based on the fact that although most of the powers vested in the central authority of the executive body on land issues in terms of State control over land use and protection, according to the administrative reform carried out, are transferred to other authorities, some of which are left behind. In accordance with the State Land Agency Regulation, which was approved by the President's Decree of 8.04.2011 N 445 to control the use of the land of the Authority, it refers to the licensing of certain types of economic activity, the control of compliance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u260	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u261	Thank you. Control is about licensing certain types of farm activity. Controlling the maintenance of the subjects of the management of the relevant licensing conditions, land inventory, emphasis, state land registration, national programme expertise, and land administration projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u263	Land assessment documentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u264	Thank you. The vote is amended as follows: [[13:48:01]] For the 17th. Correction not accepted. I was a woman!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u265	Don't insist. He's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u266	Don't you insist? And on the 9th, too, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u267	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u268	Then, Anatoly Seminoga, 10th, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that land resources are one of the most valuable resources of our nation, and we are now practically giving these land resources to one department -- an inspection that is being formed today. Convinced that, indeed, an inspection should monitor the use, proper use, professional use, assignment, but land protection always belonged to the knowledge of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Both land and water and environmental conservation were functions of the Ministry itself. And today we're practically depriving the Ministry of Environment of these functions. So once again, I ask you to support this amendment to our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u270	Please, Roman Volodymyrovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u271	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to emphasize once again that the proposal of colleague Seminog, Sphenov and Glazunov are, indeed, correct. They are, indeed, well written, we have no objection to the essentially proposed amendments. But once again, I want to say that this is not the subject of regulation of this bill. There's another bill you can pass. We are now only in compliance with the President's decree, which forms a state inspection of agriculture, we are simply making technical changes. So essentially they're not, they're right and they're right. I just have a recommendation. Make a separate bill, and write it in another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, first of all, I ask that we continue our morning until the conclusion of this debate -- we cannot interrupt. And the second. I'm voting on Amendment 10 of Anatoly Seminog. [[13:50:13]] For-13. Correction not supported. Glasunov, 11th Amendment. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u273	Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u274	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u275	First of all, I'd like to say I have six amendments there. I'm not going to make every correction because they're all the same. But the amendments that I have made there give rise to the provisions of the draft act in accordance with current legislation and technical legal requirements. Taking into account the proposals will allow full implementation of the administrative reform measures undertaken by President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine. I would also like to point out that they are aimed at reflecting in a special law the functions established by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, in accordance with the President's decree of 13 April 2011. Since the authorities are obliged to act only on the basis and within the limits of the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine, the amendments make it impossible for legal collegiates to arise. [[Part Two of Article 19 of the Basic Law of Ukraine]] And I'd like to draw the attention of the committee to the fact that, if you've looked very carefully at the observations of the scientific and scientific administration, the legal department, you would consider the amendments. Because I can see that if it's taken in the way it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u276	Please complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u277	I was going to say that if he's in the way he is, he'll be accepted, the President will veto. If it's necessary, let's take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u278	The committee's proposal is to reject. I've already argued above.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u279	I'm betting on the 11th amendment. [[13:51:59]] For -8 No correction supported. Amendment 12. Boris Dutch, please, microphone. Are you insisting on her? Don't you insist? Okay. Seminoga, 13th. Is she insisting on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u280	Well, once again, I'd like to say that these amendments aren't mine personally -- they're amendments to the Committee on Environmental Policy. And unfortunately, I see that the Agrarian Policy Committee has not listened to the position of our committee. I support my colleague Glazunov that in such a way a bill cannot be adopted and that the President will certainly veto it because it does not really comply with the President’s decree. In view of the fact that all the amendments to our committee have been ignored, I insist on voting on this amendment. Other amendments will not be insisted upon, for they are consonant with what we have already heard. Thank you for your attention. Please support the amendment of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u281	I'm betting on the 13th amendment. [[13:53:10]] For-16 Correction not supported. Amendment 14, Glazunov, do you insist on it? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u282	Well, all the corrections, I told you, they're the same. They didn't vote anymore, why vote? I'm on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u283	Okay. Yeah, 16th, Dutch, no. 17th, Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u284	Yuri Carmazin. We, really, Roman Volodymyrovich, are sneaking into a situation where, from the motives I've been calling and the colleagues we've just been talking about, we can bump into the veto. Let's look at it this way, let's count part of the amendments. I suggest we start with this amendment. In article 19, part one after the words "agribusiness complex," add, add, "that central executive authority of land issues within the limits of its designated powers." I propose that we clearly understand that there are such powers in the State Agency for Land Resources as approved by the President's decree. It is there that control powers for land inventory, government land registrations, state experts on land - management projects, and the exclusion of this rule will create obstacles for this body to conduct activities related to the detection and cessation of land use offences.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u285	I bet on the vote of Amendment 17 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:54:55]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. Yes, the following adjustments. 22nd Yuri Carmazin, well, we've already voted for her. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u286	Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you say don't insist, I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u287	Thank you. Yes, everyone else. Other amendments that the unaccounted for MPs have refused do not depend on them. Please, Roman Volodymyrovich. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u288	If my colleague has refused, I would like to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u289	Dear colleagues! I remind you that before this bill, the Chief Legal Authority has made a number of observations that the Committee has not taken into account. That is why I am voting on the proposal of a second-reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on State control of land use and protection of administrative reform measures. Registration number 9558. Please vote. [[13:56:24]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! You and I have agreed that we will complete this consideration and we cannot begin the next three minutes, because then we will have a break. So please, Sergey Sass. Then there'll be a break. Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u290	Thank you. Sergey Sas, faction of the Timoshenko Yuli Block. Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to address you, when considering the Railway Transport Act 9377, you violated the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure by putting to the vote the question of the return to the rejected amendments. I'd like to know if you've figured out what to do or if you've written this somewhere, if you've come up with a purpose to help steal the Crucifixion in the Ukrainian people, it's one thing, I don't have any questions, but if it's written somewhere, I'll tell you that there's no such right to return to the headman. Therefore, in accordance with article 29, part 1, of the Rules, I make a comment to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-23-m0.u291	Thank you. Dear colleagues! 449 deputies have the right to make observations to the Head of the Supreme Council. He has one right to thank and invite. I would ask a distinguished colleague that such a principle be when the right part of the hall insists that I turn back to the subject. And while I'm trying to keep any understanding in this Supreme Council, I'm asking you, I'm trying to do this. And don't look, there are problems, and that's enough, please don't. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. The faction and committee meetings should be suspended. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue our work. And cards, by the way, were removed from the National Deputies, who were deprived of their parliamentary powers.
