ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u1	Let's get to work. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Good morning, guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:56]] A total of 375 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Rudzkowski Mikolayovich. Let's say hello to Santa Claus and wish you success in your work. [[Applause]] It's okay. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of an interfractional parliamentary association for the promotion of freedom of conscience. An interfractional MP was elected as head of the Ukrainian national deputy, Anna Mikolayevna Herman. We wish you success in the union, Anna Mikolayevno. Honourable deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the authorized representatives of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, reports. So I'm asking the factions to sign up for the performance. Please sign up. Representatives signed up. 30 minutes, six minutes for each faction. Do you have motive? Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Turn on the microphone. Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Volodymyr Litvin, 65th District, Zitomirstina. I have questions with my colleagues. There's been an agreed landing. Now they've voluntarily transplanted some of the national MPs. So I ask that the apparatus or this assignment, from whom the apparatus came, be returned, as agreed by the Preparatory MP. If someone has a desire to disperse non-fractional deputies, I understand this situation, but it is totally unacceptable. By their own free will, they relabeled the tablets and transplanted the deputies. I'd like to put order in this direction right now, because that's not where the Supreme Council starts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u3	Thank you. I'm assigning Zajczuk Valentine Alexanderovich, take care of it and let's take a look at it. That's not supposed to be the way it is in the hall. So, who's first? The word is given to Deputy Rosenk, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u4	Please give the word to the leader of our faction Call Vitaly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u5	Let's do it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u6	Respectable citizens, respected colleagues, in the background of the failure of power in the economy, social policy today, there is a real threat of a change in the external vector of Ukraine's development. And it's not just words, it's a risk. Today, the president will negotiate and sign documents in Moscow. Ukrainian society wants to know what the President of the country is going to sign. We want to know why a matter of interest to Ukraine is being adopted in a circular, opaque way. Why do citizens learn about them when it is no longer possible to make a difference? According to statements made in the last days, the authorities have set out to begin the process of integrating Ukraine into the Customs Union. They might say that we'll have cheap gas and keep quiet that it's not for long. But the question is, Is the Ukrainian people willing to pay half of their taxes to another state? Are we ready for someone to decide these questions for us, how can we live? Personally, like millions of Ukrainians, we say, "No." That is why Ukrainian society has made a choice in favour of Europe. It is the choice of values, respect for man, his rights, his freedoms, his standards of life. We're in a partnership with all our neighbors. We are against the surrender of Ukraine's national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u7	Thank you. The National Deputy Tihypco, faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to speak. Please. Turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u8	May I speak, Mr. Head?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u9	Please. Everyone's gonna be the word, I missed it. It's my fault, please. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u10	Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We've spent two days in the Supreme Council quite violently, and I think we should now have a little bit more careful consideration and discussion. First of all, it's about how we're going to continue to vote. You know, all the time that the Supreme Council of Ukraine exists, all the factions, practically everyone who was formed in the Supreme Council, maybe except for the Communist faction, who were constantly very disciplined, violated this issue and did not comply with the requirements of the Constitution. And today, unfortunately, we don't have a final solution to this question. I'm convinced you have to put a dot here and change the situation. But at the same time, we will not be able to solve the issue with a sensory button alone. And so on the board of factions we decided to entrust Mr. MacKeenko with making changes to the Law on the Rules, which we allowed to take into account the experience of European countries. Which allows for a personal vote for all decisions, but, at the same time, allows factions that have a plus 1 vote to form the majority to work effectively. I think that anyone who wants to join Mr. MacKeenk until the regulatory committee is formed could do so. The second question. Unfortunately, and I'd like to say "sorry," once again, because we're going back to the language question that got worse during our sessions. You know, we don't support or support forced Ukrainianization. Why? Because at least, for three reasons, first of all, it's not effective. Why? Because forcing an adult to speak in a language that he does not want to speak means only one thing: We will have a reverse effect, he will not do evil, he will not do evil. There's only one thing that works here, the encouragement and encouragement, first of all the parents, the encouragement of the children, the encouragement, including the politicians. If we're persecuting the interests of our state, if we're not pursuing narrowly party and interests and factional interests, I'm convinced that we should pay attention. Second position, it's dangerous. Traditionally, in some regions, Ukraine was formed as a multinational state in Cossack regions as an international state. So I think we should approach those areas where, today, we speak other languages, including Russian. I think it's a miracle for someone, but at the same time, at the same time, I would like to inform you that in the same Sevastopol, when football is going on, they start football and they end up getting up and singing "the legendary Sevastopol is the pride of the Russian sailors." If we sharpen this question, it will only lead to radicals appearing on the other side and eventually to separatist sentiments. And I don't think it should be, we're a unitary state. And I don't think we should be shaping these moods and making appropriate provocations. [[Applause]] The third position is not democratic. Around the world, in European countries, personal interests are paramount. And if a person communicates with his constituents in Russian, I am convinced that he has the right to come to this rostrum and speak Russian in order for them to understand it well. And he who presides over the Supreme Council should certainly speak in English. That's why they're offerings. First. To postpone the discussion on this issue to those committees created by the President after the adoption of the language law. If necessary, if these committees have made certain decisions, it would be appropriate to hold parliamentary hearings here in order to think that we can change constructively. Third position. If necessary, change the law. And the last. I'd like to give all the deputies the opportunity to speak if they want, including in Russian, freely. If that is not the case, we will not allow anyone to speak from this rostrum if our deputies are not allowed to do so. Next position. You know, now is the time to think about how we should make constructive decisions. I saw that there was little constructive. We are now preparing for these decisions. If someone, including, first of all, in non-fractional deputies, has any suggestions, please, we are willing to take them into account and, first of all, pay attention to any changes to laws or laws that we need in the near future. And the last. There's snow and cold in Ukraine. During the second year, the Ministry of Emergency Situations has now opened relief sites for homeless people. I think it's the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u11	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u12	I believe that the Supreme Council should join in supporting the Red Cross, which helps our homeless, and allocate some money, raise some money to help homeless Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, are we in Parliament, or where are we? What's with the whistle that Leonov is about to come out, and this half is gonna whistle? What are you doing? This is Parliament, let's respect each other and we'll all hear each other. It shouldn't be. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Leonov, the Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Tegniboku Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u15	Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u16	Good morning, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! We are all very concerned about today's visit by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine to Moscow, because Ukrainian society has absolutely no control over the situation that our President has in mind. Do they want to sign something, some normative acts, or do I want to make a deal? The worst thing is that Ukrainian society over the past many years has simply been deprived of the ability to own information that international agreements and the essence of those international treaties are signed. We are told about some economic gain from the Customs Union, but we all understand very well that this economic gain is extremely questionable. In fact, we understand very well that the Russian Federation, apart from economic preferences and efforts to solve its personal problems, has very serious and great political ambitions. Because for the last time, we've seen how they've been trying through the Russian Orthodox Church to build Russian peace. We can see how they're promoting Ukrainian education. We see the occupation of national information space happening. We see the Russian business in a small part of the forest seeing the Ukrainian state's strategic enterprises, the same kind of Turboat, the same Ukrainian gas transport system, the same Odessa Airport or the Ukrainian Railway. In the end, Ukrainian land is similarly affected by Russian business. And all of this could be due to the loss to Ukraine of strategic enterprises and land in the event of becoming part of an extremely questionable Customs Union. Moreover, we all need to understand the economic benefits, and for whom can this economic benefit take place if Ukraine joins the Customs Union if Ukraine signs the agreement? What, is this going to be a benefit for an ordinary Ukrainian citizen? Would you please tell me the introduction to the Customs Union will ensure that the number of residential services that Ukrainian citizens are unable to pay is reduced? No, it's not. The introduction to the Customs Union will give rise solely to the oligarchs, who are now private owners of many strategic enterprises, such as metallurgical and coxochemical industries, which clearly require certain preferences on the part of Russia and on the part of the Customs Union. But what's interesting is that it's these oligarchs that they've joined their families in the European Union long ago, because they're transferring funds because they already have their assets there, they're investing the money they made here in Ukraine, somewhere far away in Europe. And we're told about the necessity of joining the Customs Union. And we also have to understand very well that for Russia, society, any agreement, and this is historically confirmed, any treaty signed with Russia, it's just a one-way road with a one-way movement in the past. Russia's terms are always the same, not only in terms of Ukraine, but also in any other country they're trying to work with. What Russia requires must be done without fail, quickly and unequivocally, and what another partner seeks must be the absolute fulfilment of all the requirements of the Russian Federation. That's why we realize that this kind of pseudo-economic alliance that would bring about a paradise for Ukraine is all just a soap bubble that's formed to bring the Russian Empire back to life. This way to the new old Soviet Union. We are protesting this, all the more, we realize that joining the Customs Union once and for all will, in fact, make it impossible to fully integrate Ukraine into Europe, into European structures. Moreover, society, fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to remind you all that there is a law on the principles of Ukraine's internal and foreign policy in the State, and one of the principles of foreign policy under this Act, let me quote, is "the guarantee of Ukraine's integration into the European political, economic, legal space with a view to gaining membership in the European Union." This is the Law of Ukraine, and as a result of violating this law, like many others, let us not allow it and be unacceptable. By the way, it's about breaking the law and violating our internal regulations. On the left hand side of our hall, I would like to address you with this request: the company, the honourable deputies of the majority, if you vote for yourself, if you do not vote for your colleagues. Perhaps this practice before and was in this Parliament, believe me, there will be no reaction from this part of the room. On the other hand, you're talking some kind of nonsense about language at all. Society, however, does not require anything special, only that we comply with our laws. To the electorate, speak the language you want in the corridor, but we ask you in this session hall according to the Ukrainian Law, as it is stipulated, please use the national Ukrainian language, as provided for in part two of article 6 of the law, which you have recently approved, where it is written that the national language is mandatory.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u18	Thank you, Mr. Head. Part two of article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Language Politics, the scandalous law that you have so successfully approved here, clearly states that throughout Ukraine, the state is being applied. Ukrainian language in the exercise of powers by the legislative, executive, and judicial authorities and in international treaties. So in life, society, of course, everyone can communicate in any language. But once you've come to Parliament, you're obviously people who are already certified, you're people who are already experienced, and obviously you should be using Ukrainian national language. Moreover, it will increase the status of our highest legislative body. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u19	Thank you. Thank you. I want to see Freedom again. There's the leader, there's the Communists, there's the Party of Regions, there's nobody involved, we hear each other. Is that how we can hear it? Why are you doing this? Let's hear each other out, please. But no one interfered, behold, all sat down, all listening. This is a civilized Parliament, and this is a Europe that we all dream of. I'm asking for the word of Cibenk, the Company of Ukraine. Let's hear each other out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u20	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Peter Cibenko. Dear fellow countrymen, respected citizens of Ukraine! The company went to vote with the slogan and the program, "Let's get the nation back!" We've offered real mechanisms to overcome the systemic socio-economic crisis and the country's exit to sustainable development. So on behalf of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, I would like to point out that we are set up for constructive legislative work in the interests of Ukrainian citizens, in the interests of human work. First of all, the Company strongly advocates a constitutional ban on the sale of agricultural land. We're here to take the oligarchs out of the gas and oil wells, return to the state property of the enterprise of strategic industries, establish strict control by the state, using natural wealth for the benefit of the whole society, not some business families. Our program envisions broad national support for a domestic producer, particularly through strengthening the state banking system and providing large industrial and agricultural enterprises, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises, with available loans of 3-5 percent per year. Secondly, fair tax, fiscal and social policy. Those who have an income should pay taxes. That is why we insist on the introduction of a progressive system of taxation and luxury taxes. All capitals should remain in Ukraine, not offshore. The state monopoly on vodka and tobacco will allow several tens of billions to be sent to the state Treasury, which are now sitting in the pockets of the gorilla and the tobacco barons. Clearly, this monopoly alone would have been sufficient to cover the full budget deficit of the Pension Fund rather than draining three of the workers’ skins. Our program envisions the abolition of antisocial medical reform and the restoration of quality and free medical care, the modernization of medical facilities, especially maternity homes and children’s hospitals. We insist on the abolition of shameful pension reform and the return of a retirement age of 60 for men and 55 for women. We've already registered the relevant bills. We stand firm against the abolition of existing benefits for disabled people, veterans, Chernobyl, Afghans, children of war, other defenseless groups of people in exchange for their so-called targeted assistance. The company requires the adoption of a law on the return to state ownership of all residential property and the inadmissibility of adopting an oligarchic Housing Code, under which a person can be thrown into the street without anyone, as the court and the investigation say. The utility costs are our principle position, not to exceed 10 percent of the income of the family. Communist MPs do not in any way vote for the slave Labour Code, which is so persistently pushed by employers' oligarchs who actually turn a hired worker into a lawless fastener. The Company's faction will advocate the adoption of laws that we have developed that guarantee free education and the first job for young people, aimed at supporting the young family and providing young people with housing and so on. The most important foreign policy tasks of our program are Ukraine's refusal to continue its cable cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and its review of the terms of entry into the World Trade Organization. The company advocates a mutually beneficial cooperation between Ukraine and the countries of the European Union, the United States of America, and other countries of the world, but the priority is to join the Customs Union and participate in the Eurasian space with a further prospect of joining the Shanghai Trade Organization. For good reason, as long as you don't go to the West, you'll still come to the East. The Eurasian space needed by Ukraine as air is also a market for domestic enterprises and access to natural resources. Well, what to say when even a report from the American National Intelligence Council admits that by 2030 China will be the most powerful economy in the world in the United States. The citizens of Ukraine, in general, our package for the return of Ukraine to the nation, lists more than 20 bills, some of which have already been registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and some of them will be registered in the coming days. The faction of the Company and each of our deputies are set up exclusively for constructive work. As we have stated from the outset, we will act as an independent political force, independent but accountable to the electorate for our promises. And the last. Dear colleagues! I want to reassure the previous speaker about the threat of the occupation of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! We know that given the situation on the road today, we will have no tank in Ukraine. So calm down, dear fellows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u21	Thank you. National Deputy Shevchenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u22	Please give the word to the head of the faction Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u23	Please, Arseny Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u24	Mr. Chairman! Members of Parliament! The opposition will demand the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a day-by-day basis: "On the responsibility of the President of Ukraine for violating article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Internal and External Policy," in the event that President Janukovic signs today any act on Ukraine's entry into the Customs Union. It's not for President Yanukovic to decide where to move to Ukraine. Ukraine has determined that our future is in the European Union. This is the future of our children. This is the future of our country. This is the future of every person in the country. Today, 500 days from the imprisonment of Julia Timoshenko. And I'd like you to give Julia Timoshenko a big round of applause. [[Applause]] And it is a sign that President Janukovic went to Moscow today to sign the agreement on the imprisonment of Ukraine. Ukraine will be a free and independent, democratic country! We will free both Ukraine and Timoshenko! And this is the challenge of opposition. We would like to stress separately once again what the Customs Union is. The Customs Union is not an economic entity. The Customs Union is essentially a political union where there is no place for Ukraine or Ukraine. A political alliance where there is no place for Ukrainian independence, where there is no place for Ukrainian entrepreneurship, where there is no place for Ukrainian language, spirituality, and culture, where there is no place for our country. And that's why we're not going there. If Janukovic wants to be in the Customs Union, please, we're organizing a Russian pen. But there will be no Russian code in Ukraine. We are an independent state and we will stand for our independence. [[Applause]] We believe that in the shortest terms, Ukraine should sign the Free Trade Agreement and the political association with our European partners. We don't need gas prices, we need values. Values in respect of human beings, values in the rule of law, values in the right of the people of Ukraine to choose and change authority, values in high standards of education and science, values in quality medicine, values in life expectancy, values in respect of one another. We don't want to go to the Soviet Union, we've already been there. And that's why we have to build our country together with our European partners. This is the task of 45 million Ukrainians, this is the hope of the Ukrainians for a better future. We know where this better future is. And this is better for the future in the European Union and this is better for the future in the national documents of Ukraine. Our movement to the European Union cannot be stopped. We would like to take a separate look at the work of Parliament. Dear Mr. Head, we had a meeting with you yesterday. We're talking to the majority. Do not break the law and the Constitution. Personal voting is a fundamental constitutional norm. In that case, if a constitutional norm is followed, Parliament will work as millions of Ukrainians want. And millions of Ukrainians want this parliament to work for them, not work for political parties and politicians who think that because of the split of the country, they can keep their ratings. Your party started to split the country by language, and it was you who passed anti-Ukrainian and anti-government law, and now you're talking about what you Ukrainians are right to speak your language. Our language is defined by the Constitution. We respect all those who speak other languages, but we demand respect for our country, our country, and our Constitution. If you're a Ukrainian party, learn to speak Ukrainian too. [[Applause]] As opposition, we believe that only in the unity of opposition and in the unity of the country is there a guarantee of our victory. We'll work together. We'll act in harmony. We will act with responsibility for every word we have spoken in the elections. We will do whatever we have promised. We work for those who voted for us. We work for our country. And this composition of Parliament, and this parliamentary opposition will show that we can change the country, we can change the lives of Ukrainians, we can make Ukraine a European state, and we can show that the unity and power of Ukrainian society is breaking any obstacle that stands in the way of prosperity and happiness for every Ukrainian. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u25	Thank you. All the factions have spoken. So let me take a very brief moment to comment on some observations and to share the thoughts that are after the first two days of the work of the Supreme Council. I want us all to hear each other today, and we have the opportunity to exchange thoughts. I don't want to pay any attention to this, but I don't want to be silenced by the fact that the most common subject in society is the debate on the results of the first two days of the seventh call session was the basic battle in the session room. I want to apologize to the Ukrainian voters for the conduct of all who took part in this spectacle. At the same time, the review of both domestic and foreign media over the past four days has shown, unfortunately, elements of destructiveness that have had a devastating effect on the authority of the Ukrainian Parliament and have had a negative impact on the image of the nations as a whole. You're looking at the Berlin Courier newspaper, and our Parliament here, you can see everything, everything is here. [[Germany]] And the title of this article is "The Ukrainian Parliament Ready to Fight." For what battle is Ukraine’s parliament ready? Therefore, dear friends, it is known that before the elections, every political force that formed the factions on December 12th published its programs, coming to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, should implement this program by parliamentary means. Apparently, there is a need to create an appropriate trusting atmosphere in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, each politician should listen to the position of others by defending his own convictions. So I'm asking you that the main piece of legislation is to focus on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, above all, on the preparation of these projects to promote the adoption of European standards, for which we save and dream. We all need to realize that the electoral campaign is already the acquisition of history, and now we need to rise above party interests, over special interests and as a basis for our work to ensure the interests of our voters, and only then will we be accompanied by success. I'm sorry, I've exceeded the bounds of a strict word, but I've tried to bring you back again and again, my esteemed colleagues, my vision of today's situation. I hope that my thoughts will find a positive response among parliamentarians, at least I am always open to dialogue and we will work together. Dear friends, there is another announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Union of the Capital of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the inter-fractional MPs' association "The Chair of Ukraine" was elected Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Dmitrovic Bondarenko. We wish Bondarenko and a group of success. Honourable MPs, on December 13, the President of Ukraine, by his decree, appointed Mikola Janović Azarov Prime Minister of Ukraine. According to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov wrote an application for his parliamentary powers. A corresponding draft of the Decision that I have made is given to you. Can we put this to a vote? I'm betting on a draft decree to end the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Azarov Mikli Janović for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:42:40]] For 268. The factions, please. Region Party - 184, Fatherland - 1, Vitalia Klicka - 37, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 29, non-fractional - 17. Thank you. Let's get back to work. The consideration of the matter should be provided in article 16 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we should consider at the first session of the Supreme Council, is in accordance with article 16 of the Rules. Now we need to consider the committee, the subjects of knowledge and the election of committee heads, the first deputies, secretaries, the members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call and Leadership and the composition of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. But the MP factions have not yet been identified, and discussions are under way. That is why we will not consider the matter today. In this regard, a proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary today of the deliberations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the calendar of the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. Are there any questions or are we going to vote? Please. Herotschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u26	Irina Heratschenko, strike faction. Dear colleagues, I think it's very bad that we're looking at this position before the Committees are formed and when the Committee of the Supreme Council on Freedom and Words can look at this position from the point of view of its professionalism. Because we are voting again for such a post-Radians approach in highlighting the activities of the Supreme Council when the national radio is trimming the national money to broadcast its daily sessions, where we ourselves sometimes don't understand what's going on in the hall. Similarly, we have a lot of questions about how the "Council" channel works, about that. We've been talking about these issues, how the Supreme Council website works. We very much hope that this will be the site of the Supreme Council, not the leadership of the Supreme Council. There are so many issues and so many things that we do not discuss today the position on how to explain the activities of the Supreme Council, because these are extremely important issues. To really highlight the activities of not specific factions, deputies, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so, I think it's bad that we didn't get to know this position, and it's what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u28	. And we're going to have to go back to him, dear fellows, after the committees have been formed, so that the committee on the subject of freedom of speech will give its recommendations. Especially with regard to national radio, we're just using it completely wrong and we're spoiling the image of a national radio with this kind of lighting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u29	Thank you. Are there any more performances? Sasu, Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Sass, Fatherland. Vladimir Vasilovich, we agreed, and you have repeatedly stressed that we should work in accordance with the law. So you've taken note of article 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, and before considering the Committee, it says, "hearing the President's out-of-order message on the internal and external situation in Ukraine." The point is that what we saw on television in the Supreme Council was in the Government Courier called the President's address to the Ukrainian people and the National Deputies in connection with the commencement of the work of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call. This is not a message from the President. There is a procedure of 169 articles which stipulates that the President will take the floor after the opening of the meeting and read this letter from the President. So Volodymyr Vasilovich, the point is, in order to prepare for the Supreme Council a program of government activity, you probably have to do it on the basis of a message. You are now depriving yourself of the main function: offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u31	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u32	the alternative course of opposition. This is the main challenge of opposition. And about the calendar plan. Vladimir Vasilovich, according to the proposed calendar plan we have in January 15 days, and then 25 more in January and by February 5th, the Supreme Council does not operate in plenary mode. In the situation in Ukraine, I mean the socio-economic, the Supreme Council may not hold plenary meetings for months? I think it's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u33	Your Honor, let's not be in the same place. We're looking at the question of how the Supreme Council of Ukraine works. So I'd like to make a statement on this. The preparatory group made a proposal: Consider. I'll put it to a vote, we'll include, we'll consider, I'll give you my word and we'll move on. And let's not look at it all together. The specific question is how to explain the work of the Supreme Council. Please. Please, Baby, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! The question of how the Supreme Council works is an important issue. But there's an even more important question: it's not paying wages to millions of Ukrainian citizens. Every day, both I and other national deputies receive a request from budget officials, from employees of various forms of property, that people don't pay their salaries for months. Tomorrow we have the day of Santa Claus, and in time we will celebrate the New Year, millions of Ukrainian families will have nothing to buy gifts for their children. And you suggest that the Supreme Council go away and not work for long. So I now propose, on behalf of the Supreme Council, to turn to the government of Azarov, because he's obviously doing well, and he's getting paid in time, in contrast to the common people. I invite the Government of Azarov to take immediate action to pay the salaries of Ukrainian budget workers, doctors, teachers, social workers. They're coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u35	Thank you. I put to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the day plenary of two issues: the presentation of work and the calendar of work of the first session. Please vote. [[10:50:27]] For 353 353 people's deputies. Factions: Region Party - 183, Parenthood - 58, Vitalia Klicka - 36, Freedom - 34, Company - 30, non-fractional - 12. Following the announcement of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the report is given by Ruslan Wolodymirovich Kosulinski, a national deputy of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! I would like to introduce you to the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Order of Enrollment of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", prepared and introduced by the members of the Temporary Presidium of the First Session of Parliament of the Seventh Call. This regulation states, inter alia, that direct broadcasting on the First National Television and the First Channel of the National Radio Company of Parliamentary Events, as defined by the Ukrainian Law "On the Order of Enlightenment of the Activities of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities in Ukraine by Media" and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the formation of an oath by the People's Deputies, the hearing of President of Ukraine's messages, the taking of an oath by the newly elected President, the holding of an hour of questions to the Office, parliamentary hearings, and so on. On the day of the plenary meetings and questions to the Government on the first television channel, broadcast the Fifteen - Minute TV program “Parliamentary Day. ” On Saturdays, television broadcasts on the first television channel for forty - five minutes with the participation of representatives of MPs and nonfractional deputies. On the first national channel of the National Radio Company, direct broadcasting of plenary meetings and parliamentary hearings, as well as on Thursdays, broadcast forty - five - minute thematic broadcasts with the participation of representatives of MPs and nonfractional deputies. Direct broadcasts of plenary sessions, Parliamentary Day television programmes, forty-five-minute broadcasts with the participation of national deputies on satellite, cable parliamentary television and cable networks. To ensure constant and comprehensive reporting of parliamentary activities on the newspapers of the Voice of Ukraine. We believe that this format of parliamentary reporting will allow Ukrainian citizens to obtain information objectively and fully on the work of the highest legislative body, and we ask for the support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u37	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this? Please register with the faction for one minute. Please. Please register with the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u38	I'll give it to you. Yes, please, Deputy Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u39	I give the word Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u40	Please Arseny Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u41	Mr. Chairman, members of Parliament, I wanted to welcome the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian opposition with the cancellation of President Yanukovic's visit to the Russian Federation. [[Applause]] The opposition is buying tickets for President Yanukovic in Brussels. That's where we need to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u42	Please Kaplin, Vitalia Calla.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u43	Andrew Shevchenko will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u44	And you used time. 20 seconds, Andrew Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u45	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm going to use these 20 seconds to inform the Ukrainian Parliament that Dnipropetrovsk has just turned off the "Council" TV channel and instead has been installed in the cable network of the TV TV TV. I'm going to remind you that this is a strange, exotic television channel made by Nazbank and there are big questions about its transparency. So I think the question of how to explain Parliament's work will require a more serious approach from all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u46	Thank you. It's Vitaly Klitschka, Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u47	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u48	Please have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to support Mr. Shevchenk Andrew, my colleague, because in no country in the world does the National Bank have its own channel. I want to remind you that it's not for Arbuzov's money or his family that's actually funded, it's for taxpayers' money. So for a profile committee, that's going to be an important question. But in the same way, taxpayers' money is financed by the Voice of Ukraine, which is also financed by the National Radio. And we need to get to the point properly, given that 226 majors have gone to Parliament, how they will explain their activities on this quota, just as it will be explained. We have a newspaper called Voice of Ukraine today that is often turned into a pillar of power. We need to abandon this practice when newspapers belonging to the authorities are added to power, to rostrums, and tosses. The national radio should actually give completely different programs, not ours here very often debates. So once again, I would like to stress that it would be fair for us to come back to this issue after the creation of a profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u50	Thank you. Ukraine's company, Cibenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u51	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company of Ukraine supports both decisions on the calendar plan and on how to explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because, first of all, it takes into account the experience that has already been worked out. Secondly, there are signatures, including our members of the working group, which initiated the adoption of this document. But with the opportunity, I want to raise one problem that I think is extremely important. That's what this is about. They're here on the calendar for the government's hours. I still think that we should think about it, not today, but seriously think about getting back into the practice of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the "government hour" that turns into KNP, but the "government day" that envisions the preparation of the issue, discussion, decision-making -- it's a much more effective mechanism to control the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I think that's what we have here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u52	Thank you. Party of regions. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Hane Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u55	First of all, dear friends, I wanted to thank the head of the opposition faction of the united opposition for correcting his mistake, and to advise the honourable colleague that information, since we are now considering the issue of information security, should be checked, because unverified information devalues everything you say later. And if you go out to the rostrum and say that the President of Ukraine has flown to Moscow and will be there, something is already signing off, and it turns out, you just don't know whether the President was going to go or not, and that he hasn't gone anywhere, and then you're contradicting your information, that's how your statements go, and the voters will stop believing you. So the main task in the information policy of the Supreme Council that we're going to carry out is the truth of the information that we're going to carry out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u56	Thank you. Freedom Union, Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Andrew Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u58	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u59	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association supports this decision and I would like to emphasize that I have been communicating with the Council. And so far, there's a huge problem with the fact that it's very old equipment. And here we are, passing a decree on how to explain the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But very often this lighting takes place in extreme conditions. And to the media committee and freedom of speech, which will continue to consider and smoke this issue so that he will pay attention to it. Because as long as we don't approve the rulings, the equipment can say "good-bye." Just like, for example, now "good-bye" says, they say "Hundai," who bought the Vice Prime Minister of Kolesnikov who bought them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u60	The discussion, honourable deputies, is coming to an end. Please, a minute from the non-fractional. Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u61	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. I have two questions. One for you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Another reference work on this subject. First. Why was this decision not handed out to the deputies? At least we got to know him. I'm not the only one who doesn't have one, but I understand the Bureau got one. Why didn't any of the deputies get it? What are we talking about? And the second question. I think that those MPs who go to their constituencies know that most of the population and our residents don't have the ability to watch "The Council" TV. They have the only chance they have is the radio station they're listening to. These are older people. So I have a question for the reporter. Will our citizens of Ukraine receive complete information as they received in the past? In order for them to know who is protecting them and who is pursuing anti - state politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u62	Thank you. I'm informing you that on the first day of the Supreme Council's work on the seventh call, these documents were handed out to all the national MPs, including you. Let's work. The discussion was over. I've told you everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. So, maximizing our activity is the prerogative of our activity, our work. Taking into account the fact that the Law on the State Budget, which approved the cadence of the past, has laid down, I would like to remind you, under code 0111010, those funds for the disclosure of the Supreme Council's activities within those allocations will be allocated the funds for our enlightenment. Convinced that the following activity and commission of profile will be determined by the lighting mechanism. If this is not enough, I would suggest that you make some changes to this decision for maximum coverage. Considering that, unfortunately, there are still no funds available to explain the activities of the last cadence, I am convinced that if you control qualitatively, and the Budget Committee is monitoring the quality of the allocation of funds for our coverage so that we can: a – technologically ensure that our activities are broadcast through a television company. And second, it's that, unfortunately, in the villages, when so-called radio stations that are still working, unfortunately, in a poor state, I suggest that the profiling committee also pay attention to this in order to make our activities as widely as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u64	Thank you. I'm betting on a draft regulation on how to explain the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:04:18]] For three hundred The factions. Region Party – 171, Parenthood – 67, Vitalia Klicka – 38, Freedom – 36, Company – 30, non-fractional – 15. On the basis of the vote? Please. Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u65	Dear Volodymira Vasilovich, the deputy faction of "The Fatherland" asks you to start voting on any issue before you must announce who is absent from the National Deputies. The apparatus must block the cards so that the vote is fair and transparent, as we agreed. And I think that's the style that suits your headship as the speaker of the Supreme Council. Therefore, the request is now made to give us such an assignment and to let us know who voted with foreign cards now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u66	This is my assignment to the secretariat, and the following sessions will begin with this. Okay. I am. Second, we need to consider the calendar plan for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. The corresponding decision-making project is given to you. Yesterday he agreed with all the faction leaders. Should we discuss it or put it to a vote? I'm betting on a draft decree on the calendar plan for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:06:38]] For 283 The factions. I'll give it to you now. The factions. Region Party - 182, Fatherland - 5, Vitalia Klicka - 39, Freedom - 21, Ukraine - 30, non-fractional - 6. On the basis of Bondarenko's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u67	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, well, we've oversimplified our activities in this difficult period for the country. The point is that Ukraine’s budget is hard to complete today. In Kiev, for example, three million debt for ambulances. Tomorrow all ambulances will become. It's not funded on holidays. So I think I should have added at least one working day to consider the most important issues, such as the conclusion of the financial year. So the warning that we got today about having to get to 27 of these things done, we're going to end up with wages and so on. And today there are many such issues in the country. Some were given funding in the last month of the year knowing that it would not go through a treasury that would block accounts. This is true of the local authorities and our constituents. That's why I didn't vote for it, because we've only noticed two working days. This year, today and 25 and only two, for the beginning of the next year. That's where we're going to add it, but it's going to be recognized.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-18-m0.u68	Thank you. These are the questions they refer to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers will decide them, not the Supreme Council. Therefore, honourable deputies, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. The next plenary session will take place on December 25, 2012. Faction leaders, I ask you to come into the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
