ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:01:23]] There are 255 national deputies registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, as agreed, because we have implemented the part of the agenda that we have planned, without being included in the agenda, so we will now consider some of the issues that we have included in the agenda, and those bills that we have received from the committees have already passed all the procedures. I'm now announcing the bill. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges]] [[Registration number 10425]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:03:03:03]] For 193 We received support to consider the reduced procedure. I invite you to speak to the advisor of the President of Ukraine, Head of the General Directorate for Judicial Affairs of the Ukrainian President Andrija Volodymirovich Portnova. Get ready from the Espenov Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u2	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich! The President of Ukraine proposes to consider and adopt, on the first reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts relating to the Strengthening of Guarantees of the Independence of Judges. This law proposes that prosecutors should be restricted in their right to initiate consideration of the issue of bringing judges to disciplinary responsibility or their dismissal. It is envisaged to amend the laws on the Supreme Council of Justice, the Judicial Act and the Status of Judges, which provides that, in the case of a prosecutor's participation in judicial proceedings, the Prosecutor's Office has the power to refer to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine or the High Council of Justice with a complaint of misconduct of the judge only if such a case is not before the Court of Justice of any institution or if the legal procedure for the filing of an appeal has ended. In addition, the examination of the evidence of a violation by a judge of an oath of disciplinary misconduct by a judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine or a judge of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine pursuant to this draft cannot be entrusted to a member of the High Council of Justice who is a prosecutor or a prosecutor at the time of appointment of a member of the High Council of Justice. As an example, the prosecutor has one argument more than the other in the case, usually prosecutors make a motion to release judges without waiting for an appeal or a cassation. In order to prevent possible violations of the rights of judges in the process of their release from office, the bill is also regulated.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u4	I'm done. Certain questions about subjects who are entitled to apply to the High Council of Justice for the release of a judge from office. We propose to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Justice, Spanov Dmitry Juryevich
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u6	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, the Committee on Justice considered the bill at its meeting on May 16, 2012. The bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that when the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges was passed on the basis of the Presidential Bill, the law was one of the key issues: ensuring the independence of judges. However, the practice of applying the law has shown the need to strengthen the guarantees of the independence of judges, in the process of providing them, selecting them, and doing so. This bill is called upon to minimize the power of the prosecutor's office to influence the judges, to reduce cases of unfounded petitions for the release of judges as a tool to influence them, to speed up the process of appointment and the election of judges. It also minimizes the role of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the process of appointing and electing judges, in accordance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. In order to implement the purpose of the bill, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council of Justice, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the judiciary and the status of judges. The committee supported the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u7	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, are there willing to share in the discussion? Yeah, besides Zarubinski, no one insists anymore? And Easy. Please, Zarubinsky and Laško.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Any legislative initiative aimed at making the judiciary and each individual judge more independent requires and requires support. I remember that there was a lot of talk when we adopted the Criminal Procedure Code for some kind of colossal, some kind of misunderstanding and so on, and the main argument that lawyers put forward for the adoption of the new edition was actually the new Criminal Procedure Code -- it was a clear increase in the competition of the parties during the trial. A lot more attorney's authority than the prosecutor's, as opposed to what happened before. And in this case, in my opinion, in the view of our faction, the situation where the prosecutor takes sufficiently serious weights of the pressure on the judge, and during the trial, even before the case is brought before the court, is certainly positive. Because in that case, we're doing a good job with a positive Criminal Procedure Code, where there's a competitive factor in the relationship between the prosecutor and the lawyer. And in this case, the bill allows the judge to be a real arbitrator of the case and not depend directly on, including perhaps a subjective approach of the prosecutor to a judge. So I think we should do everything we can as representatives of the national parliament to ensure that the status of an independent judge is not only on paper, but in practice. In this case, the legislative initiative needs its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u9	Yes, thank you. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. No one denies the need to strengthen the independence of judges. Because today the judge has many, some of whom are actually dependent, and primarily on telephone law, power, authority, authority, and authority. But we're all talking about the independence of the judges. When do we start talking about the responsibility of judges for making illegal decisions? When people go to court for years, they try to make decisions, they get dragged there, they pull them, they make illegal decisions, and they can't be held accountable. When are we going to talk about bringing the responsibility of Judge Kiriev, Judge Vuka, and other judges who make illegal, unconstitutional decisions? Who gave birth to such a concept in Ukraine as political prisoners. Today, the whole world is sticking us in this, these political prisoners. Where did these prisoners come from? Did they fall from the sky? No, they were made by judges who say that judges, in fact, serve the authorities rather than serve the law. Hence, it is not only the strengthening of the guarantee of the independence of judges but also the strengthening of the responsibility for those judges, who are only judges on paper, but, in fact, judges, not judges! Bullies of Ukrainian citizens who plant political prisoners And millions of other citizens. Look who's in jail! Ninety percent of those in prison are innocent. Those who are to blame are in power. Those who are not guilty are in prison. That's what our judges have done! You're laughing, you've brought it up! It was you who created such a system of justice, the perjury in Ukraine! So we have to change the situation. Those in power need to be put in jail. And those in prison have to be released. Because 90 percent of them are innocent people sitting there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u11	Comrade Lazko speaks with knowledge of the matter. So, so he knows what he's talking about. Nobody insists anymore? Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u12	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill in the first reading. But we insist that the rights of the Supreme Council and the deputy corps should be restored to the second for a broad discussion of candidates for the judiciary's office for status to last forever. I want to tell you that, in our view, it's a little embarrassing when it's the Supreme Council that only performs functions, you know, such a wedding general. There can be no such thing. And if we are really talking about independent judges, at least the Supreme Council of Ukraine should influence this process because they will then be independent. If they were given the right to enter this high mandate in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which. We gave him this, you know, quality badge. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future will only vote in the first reading, and the second group will require such changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u13	Yes, others don't insist? Dear colleagues, I think you'll all support me now if we do this. If we take the proposal from this draft law to amend the 79th article, where the language is "the consideration of the issue and the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the decision to elect candidates for the term of office of a judge." So we're removing this article from the bill and voting as a whole as a law. Is there no objection? None. Then I put to the vote a proposal: to adopt the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts by deleting from the bill the amendments to 79 articles concerning the Supreme Council. [[on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges]] [[Registration number 10425]] Please vote. [[16:14:49]] For 266 Thank you. The law is passed. Adopted as a law with the deletion of 79 articles. Dear colleagues, now you and I have to consider one very interesting bearded bill, on the guarantees of the state regarding the execution of court decisions. [[9127]] It's a second reading. I'm inviting you. Because that was the decision taken on the Conciliation Council, because. Now, now. I explain why today is the day, because tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the Council of Europe has an appropriate meeting to consider how Ukraine responds to these questions. And he'll be looking at it late on Thursday. We need to look at it today, based on the work schedule of European structures. Report from the Committee of Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich, please. Second reading. What's more, my fellow dignitaries, I think, right now, the reporter will say that it's decided that we're considering this bill without the Final Provisions, without the Final Provisions, which related to changes to certain legislative acts that cancel out certain social benefits. Please, Dmitri Mikitovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u14	Adam Ivanovich, since you already said so, I will not stress this again. By a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 9 September 2011, the draft Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Decisions was adopted and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice was entrusted with the task of drafting a bill to take into account the observations and proposals of the legal entities of the legislative initiative, shortening the deadlines for the submission and consideration of such observations and proposals, and introducing it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a second reading. [[Registration number 9127]] It should be noted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Justice, in its second reading at its meeting on 21 September 2011, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thereafter, proposals came to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of justice, including the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with observations on the comparative table of the bill for second reading. In this regard, the committee finalized and reviewed the bill at the Committee’s meeting again on October 19, 2011. In the process of preparing for the second reading by the subject of the legislative initiative, 562 amendments were made to the bill, which resulted in the Committee’s consideration of 3 of them, 559 being rejected. Taking into account the urgent need for Ukraine to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in the "Juriy Mikolaiovich Ivanov v. Ukraine" case, the Committee on Justice decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law. And I go back to Adam Ivanovich's words that what part of the MPs were up against is being excluded from this bill. Therefore, I ask everyone to support and vote as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u15	Dear colleagues! Now we're going to go to the repairs, but once again I'm going to emphasize and I'm going to ask you to pay attention. Unfortunately, the table was prepared earlier and the table includes both the Final and Transitional positions that we are not considering with you today. Today we are looking at only the body of the law without amending those laws that we have talked about on several occasions in this session hall and which are already regulated, if I am not mistaken, by two decisions of the Constitutional Court and regulated by the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2012. So you and I are only going to consider proposals relating to the main part, the first part, and a chapter called "The Personality of the Enforcement of Judgments", the essence of which is that court decisions have to be implemented. And chapter three, the End and Transitional positions, we're not looking at, except as far as dates are concerned, because there's a date that we can't introduce as of January 1, 2012, and so on, just as far as dates are concerned. So let's go after the repairs. Now, wait, please. Well, I can see that, Baby. The amendment was, "The State Guarantees Act to Reject Decisions of the Court." Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that now in the Supreme Council there has been such a cliché, this scandalous bill of 9127, which the current government wants and wants and now, sleeps and sees to deprive millions of Ukrainian citizens of the constitutional right to social protection. But at the end of the year, when they extended an illegal decision by the Constitutional Court, which they actually gave to the government of Azarov to establish the size and order of payments, they now seem to be refusing. But what I'm saying is that they're not just giving up, and they're giving up their intentions because we added them because we forced them to do the Constitution. And here they went to the Supreme Council all winter, rallying, and today this power has surrendered. [[and under government, and under the Supreme Council]] They were afraid, they gave up their unconstitutional intentions, and we should thank everyone for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u17	Yeah, I figured you guys weren't pushing anymore, 'cause the Princs are gone. Yeah, okay. [[B in m in s a l in]] If we find them. We will not find them because they are in that chapter that is not being considered today. Let's see. We've got to the first part, to the 1st chapter, the comments that were, no one insists. As it were, there are no comments. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? Wait, please. Dear colleagues, once again, chapter 1 we've been through with you. Now chapter 2 of "The Final and Transitional Positions." We only have to leave here what we have to do with dates. Right, Dmitri Mikitovich? Now, wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u18	After the 27th amendment, we took into account on the committee the amendment of Wheeler Wadima. But since he calls it off, he does not insist on it, so today he needs to be put on the stand. 27th for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u19	Yes, the 27th amendment stands for confirmation, please identify yourself. [[16:23:16]] For-0 Yeah, zero, she's, she's left, she's left unaccounted for. Let's do 32. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's count. Now, now, 32 amendments, it's proposed: this law takes effect, we've had since January 1, 2012, we have to write, i.e. I propose to vote: this law takes effect as of January 1, 2013. I would like to vote for that. Wait, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u20	Fourteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u21	Take off the vote, take off the vote, I'll explain what we're voting for. We're voting for a change in date. The first reading was written on January 1, 2012, and the committee proposes to support the fact that this law takes effect on January 1, 2013. Please vote. [[16:24:31]] For 255 That is, the law has been introduced since January 1, 2013. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, now, wait, no. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll see if I can confirm them at all. Yeah, let's see where the dates go again. Dear colleagues, once again, I stress that you and I are only voting for chapter one. In the second chapter, we only vote on date clarifications and nothing else is voted on. So one date that we voted on January 1, 21013.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u23	Now, I see on page 124 of the 359 amendment, which is to be developed by the thirteenth year. So it's to be developed by the 14th year. Until the 14th. No, no, no, no, no, no, 40 amendments will not be considered at all. It's very simple, because we're going to leave it in the Final and Transitional positions. Ladies and gentlemen of the committee, think what you're asking! You're asking me to confirm what we're rejecting at all. We're not changing any laws, I'm stressing again, we're not making any changes to any laws in the End. We're just taking the first part. And in the second part, we're going to specify the dates. And you're proposing to make changes to the law. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u24	Is she turned down to confirm? It's rejected. That's enough because no one insists. One more time and one more time. In the Final Positions and the Transitional, we vote only on dates, without making any changes to any law. It's rejected, you don't want confirmation. Confirming What? We don't change any laws in the second part. And so, the amendment that says that the Cabinet of Ministers, once it becomes effective, will be developed by the 13th year. To be developed not until the 13th, but by 2014. Please vote on this. [[16:28:07]] For 251 Thank you. Thus, in view of the fact that the first chapters went unnoticed, in the second chapter of the Final and Transitional Positions, we took into account only two positions that this law took effect on January 1, 2013. And one more thing to consider is that the Cabinet of Ministers has been tasked with drafting the necessary bills that come out of this law, not until 2013, but by 2014. And there is no more in the final and transitional positions of the textual section. Right? That's right. That's what you're looking at. Once again, committee, what do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u25	If that's what this is about. Are We Taking Out Insurance?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u26	And we agreed that we don't really touch the final ones, because there are changes to the laws that we say we don't need to talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u27	Then, come on, there's a proposal to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u28	But it's hard for me to formulate because the committee is one thing, and it's lined up to prepare the final table that they would like to see, and what they did ten years ago, they moved, and you're here to sort it out, and others say the other. Try it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u29	We agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u30	Try to find out what to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u31	Adam Ivanovich, we agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u32	Okay. Yes, Sergey Vasilovich also says we have another date. That's how we voted her. We voted in 2014 instead of 2013. We voted on it. So once again, we're voting on Law 9127 – Chapter I on State Guarantees for Enforcement of Decisions, in the P chapter, we're leaving only a position that this law is effective as of 1 January 2013, and the second position that we're going to draft the relevant bills not until 2013 but by 2014. With such amendments, and in such a context, I put to the vote the adoption in the second reading and in general the Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments. [[Registration number 9127]] Please vote. [[16:32:20]] For-57 By factions, please: The parties of the 12 regions did not vote, "Our Ukraine" did not vote, the 25 Communists did not vote, the 18 reforms did not vote, the 2 People's Party did not vote. There is a suggestion to re-send the second reading by actually preparing such a table, preparing such a table properly. I'm voting on this proposal for recast, please vote. To the others again. [[16:33:07]] For 234 Thank you. Decision taken. The law is directed at rereading the second reading. Here we go to the draft Law on Bar and Bar, the President's Bill. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 10424]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:33:42]] For 227 Please, Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine proposes the adoption of Ukraine’s Law on Lawyering and Legal Activities in the implementation of Ukraine’s international obligations. This project provides a wide range of self-government and self-regulation functions for lawyers. The law provides for the establishment of legal self-government bodies and defines the powers of the councils of lawyers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the qualification and disciplinary commissions of the bar, the Higher Qualifications Commission of the Bar, and so on. It is suggested that lawyers should be included exclusively in the legal system. And it is known that today, self - government bodies include judges and executives, as well as representatives of local governments. It is suggested that the legal authorities decide for themselves the formation of a highly professional legal corps, the establishment of professional standards and ethical requirements for legal activity, representation and protection of the common interests of lawyers, the cooperation of lawyers with public authorities and other subjects. The project proposes the establishment of a National Bar Association, as foreseen in conclusion 190 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The types of legal activity, professional rights and duties of a lawyer, and the guarantee of legal activity are expanding. The project proposes that the issue of the referral of legal counsel be clearly settled. A set set of questions and addressees for which a lawyer’s request may be filed and sent. The obligation of a lawyer’s request for local government authorities, businesses, institutions, and organizations has been introduced irrespective of the form of ownership. The project proposes to establish administrative responsibility for refusing to provide information on a lawyer’s request, timely or incomplete information. It's been a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u34	Yes, thank you. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko, head of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u35	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! For almost 10 years, the professional legal environment has been working on this law. Because the challenges facing our country are the low level of human rights protection that, unfortunately, still exists in our country, requires that the moment be thoroughly reformed by lawyers. Because the relevant article of the Constitution guarantees every citizen of Ukraine the right to representation and protection. But the opportunities that lawyers have used so far have not allowed the full protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens. That's why the President of Ukraine, after generalizing all the legislative initiatives that have been so far, and among the authors of such bills and Andri Volodymyrovich Portnov, who had just reported the bill and I was one of the authors, has actually spent six years working on the development of the bar as the head of the training committee, and Sergei Vasilovich Kiwalov and his committee, which worked for a long time on the law. That is, we have drafted a bill that is accepted by the international community and that is in urgent need of Ukrainian citizens today. I ask you to support the President's legislative initiative and shorten preparations for second reading, the deadline for preparation, so that by the end of this session we have a new law on lawyers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u36	Yes, report, report complete. Who but Zarubinsky? Please, Zarubinsky. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u37	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! I won't take much time. I took the floor to emphasize two things of everything. First. The Law on Lawyers is one of three laws that required the Council of Europe to enter Ukraine in due course. In fact, all the other demands of the Council of Europe were then met. They appeared new, depending on the situation and so on. Three things were put before Ukraine in 1995 in a very specific legislative way. It's the Criminal Procedure Code, it's the Law on Lawyers and the Law, and it's about prosecutors. Right? The D.A.'s office. So look. I've been accepted by the KPC. Now there's a high probability that once we're done in short-term mode, we'll adopt the Law on Lawyers. In fact, in the last 17 years, we have come to the point that what we have done in the last year has not been done in 16 years. I think it's very important to note. And we should mention those who were directly involved in the drafting of this bill. And second moment. This bill has, let's say, it can be divided into two parts. On the one hand, there are really great powers given to lawyers. It's really a mechanism. And I've seen that government authorities, local self-government authorities don't really have the ability to push, they don't really have the ability to make their own decisions through lawyers. I mean, the level of independence of the bar, according to this bill, is quite high. But there's the second part of the medal, as always. What are the responsibilities of lawyers? They're just settled in the "discipline of lawyers" box, transparently, so that lawyers don't abuse their powers. So these are three points: we've been implementing things that haven't been implemented since 1995, we've given lawyers a lot of authority, opportunities for self-organization and self-regulation, and we've given them specific responsibilities for their professional activities. Thank you. It's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u38	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u39	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully support what the previous speaker said, but I wanted to make some adjustments. The point is, in 1995, we made 12 basic commitments, and so far, three are of course very important. After we adopted the KPC, there was an opportunity to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council the Law on Bar and Bar. And if we vote today, and I'm sure we're going to do that, I'd like to propose that we support what our colleague Miroshnichenko has offered us to do in order to get the procedure to the second reading to go through the shorter procedure. Why? Because by the end of this month, there will be a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and we could have called not only for the implementation of resolution 190, but also for Resolution 1862, which was adopted at the January session. And the right part of the hall, which has kept saying that they're pro-European, they're constantly proving that they're only in words for Europe, and they're actually going against it. Today, when we voted on the language law, we actually gave a mechanism to implement the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities. A little earlier, we voted on a bill that deals with the pilot project of the European Court of Human Rights "Ivanov v. Ukraine". If we solve this, we'll solve another big problem. The adoption of the Law on Lawyering and Advocacy creates conditions for us to decide and take another step to fulfil our obligations under the legal bloc. And then all we have is the development and submission to the Supreme Council of the Procuratorial Act. And then we will fulfill all our obligations to the Council of Europe. And the opposition, which simply screams that it is pro-European, does nothing to bring Ukraine closer to Europe. And most of us, we do, we do, we do. Please vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u40	Yes, thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the first reading the draft Law on Bar and Law. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 10424]] [[16:43:11]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Development Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u41	"About the development of aircraft. Do you understand what this law is? Shorten. Maybe for a day, maybe for a day? Work. We have deadlines to look at it in July, if you're on time, the committee will work. You know what seven days is to make with that law. In 14 days. You'll be there in 14 days. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Planebuilding Industry on State Support for the Construction of Aviation Technology of Domestic Production. [[Registration number 10423]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:44:17]] For the 220. Supported. Reported by the People’s Deputy Suhi. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, I once said, thanks to the session room, thanks to the joint efforts of the Ukrainian National Deputies in 2001 we were able to adopt a bill on the development of the aviation industry, which has written some preferences that have generated successful development in this field. Today, aviation technology, especially civil aviation in our park, accounts for up to 70 percent of what is being used in Ukraine. Most airlines carry out regional passenger transports to physically and morally obsolete JC-42 and AN-24. And by the way, recently on the Internet there's an interesting idea, the information that China's built on the production of AN-24 is our Ukrainian planes, and it's priceless to give and sell to Ukrainian airlines. Those AN-24s we substituted for AN-140, they produce in themselves, they copy, and they sell here. To make an exploiter interested in purchasing and exploiting our domestic aviation technology, this bill is written. Look, please, it consists of only one sentence, honourable colleagues, here's one sentence. Article 3.1 of the Basic Aviation Industry Development Act provides for these preferences to be added to the following: "aircraft operators located in Ukraine, exclusively for aviation engineering of domestic production." In this way, even in the previous estimates, Ukraine's budget for the first year of operation can be made up to 10 billion dollars because technology will be purchased, jobs will be renewed at the Kharkiv factory, at the Avianta, at Antonov's ANTC, and at 164 other industrial enterprises that work together in co-operation. Let me remind you again, Ukraine is one of six countries in the world that constructs, manufactures and exploits its native aviation technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u43	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I'm making suggestions, and I'm asking that the profile committee back me up. The bill in one sentence, I ask you to support it both on a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u45	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 17 May 2012 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Building Industry on State Support for Aviation Engineering, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies to Boguslayev and Suhim. The purpose of the bill is to update the civil aviation park by the domestic courts of production, create favourable economic and legal conditions for legal persons, enable residents of Ukraine to invest in money, acquire aviation technology for civil aviation of domestic production, improve the modernisation of aviation technology for civil aviation of domestic production, support and development of the scientific and technical potential of civil aviation and promote economic development. In view of the above, the committee adopted a decision to amend the Ukrainian Aviation Industry Act on State support for the marketing of aviation technology for domestic production to be considered by the Supreme Council and to propose to accept it as a basis. [[You can see that the keyword is "domestic production."]] But I support Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhogo's suggestion, and I think we'll be on the right track if we vote for this bill as a whole and support our domestic producer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u47	Who wants to share in the discussion? Sign up. Garbage. He's got Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dried here is one of the few people who advocates the production of aircraft in our country along with their partners. And including under the leadership of Boguslayev, which is one of the enterprises that is doing anything in high technology in our country today. But at the same time, he does not speak of what we are saying today, that Ukraine. Last year we adopted the Tax Code, where we said that the fifth route of Ukraine should allow us to develop, not pay taxes. This is: airplane construction, shipbuilding, light industry, hotel complex, and some. building a car. Construction for rural technology. But at the same time, here the Dry One won't let me lie that a branch like aluminum and titanium today doesn't work for Ukraine because the aluminum is stopped by competitors and almost completely destroyed in such a way that it's not possible to build an aluminum plane. And the titanium branch is working today for manufacturing, for an offshore company. to the offshore zone, no kilo today of titanium raw material that needs to be bought today, Motor-Sitch, because it's all going into the offshore zone. It was in 2003, it was in 2007, 2005 and beyond today. What does this talk about? That, on the one hand, some MPs want to help, want to stand down, keep high-tech. The technology that we have in industry, and some of the deputies, and some of it can be said, manufacturers or industries do everything they can to destroy this industry. And such an example is like the aluminum branch in our Ukraine. So I think that if we declare on the one hand support for domestic production, we need to be clear and clear about our Committee on Industrial Policy or the Ministry of Economics, that all of these sectors involved in this process should have priority, including to obtain raw materials from state-owned enterprises, such as a titanium-magnetic combination or an aluminum combination. Without this raw material, we can't say that we have closed production -- aircraft building. Or we declare it, we actually support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u49	Thank you. Zarubinski Oleg, please, microphone from the site.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u50	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, you can understand what the previous speaker said with concern, with the bell, but I'd like to disagree with one of his phrases, fellow Smithujah, on the grounds that our airline, such as Motor Sitch, is doing something and so forth. Dear colleagues, Motor Sitch is making production on a level and better than in other countries. That's why there are so many competition problems. So there's competition with those productions, with those factories that see that Ukrainian aircraft companies have a lot ahead of them, they're ahead of them. And because aircraft construction is one of the priorities of Ukrainian domestic production, first of all. Secondly, one of the priorities that is competitive in the world distribution of labor. I would like to say that we have supported, supported and supported aid, support, support not only to the domestic abstract manufacturer, but primarily to those who are modern and competitive. It's like the Sich Motor. We're going to support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The conclusion of the Chief Science and Technology Administration: The bill needs to be finalized. Suggestions were made for acceptance as a whole as a law. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Development of Planebuilding Industry on State Support for Aviation Technology of Domestic Production. [[Registration number 10423]] Please vote. Vote. [[16:53:43]] For 264 Thank you. The law is passed. The whole law was passed. We're considering a draft Act on the conduct of an economic experiment on State support for the shipbuilding industry. [[10360 bill registration number]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:54:32]] For 224 Supported. Report by Yuri Karakai. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill deals with the creation of conditions for the development of the shipbuilding sector of Ukraine, which has been a visiting card of Ukraine for decades. Sadly, after our country’s independence, this branch is, in a mild sense, not in its best condition. This applies not only to the inhabitants of Mikolayovstina, Odeshtina, Hersonstina, who work in these factories, not only to the budgets of these areas, but also to the budgets of Ukraine and the enterprises that were associated with the production of vessels. Because Ukraine not only produced seiners or towing trucks, but that aircraft carrier, which was sold to China, continued to be the world’s largest aircraft carrier, and it was produced at our shipbuilding plant. What is involved in the law itself? Shipbuilding is a capitalist and high-tech sector that not only creates jobs directly in these enterprises, but also creates between 10 and 12 jobs, every job in this sector in the adjacent enterprises. In our opinion, in the view of the Permanent Deputy and mine, we are the authors of the bill, this bill will allow the development of the sector to significantly increase to 30 to 40 percent of these enterprises in the budget, an increase of 20 percent in the salaries of workers in these factories and an increase of 1.5 to 2 billion dollars per year, an order for Ukrainian shipbuilding and ship repair plants, which is about 20 factories per day. Thank you for your attention. And please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u53	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Affairs, Mikhail Chechtov, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u54	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at the meeting on 17 May 2012, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the conduct of an economic experiment on State support for the shipbuilding industry submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Final Volodymyr Leontijovich and Karakay Yuri Vasilovich. The purpose of this law is to help improve the financial position of shipbuilding enterprises, prevent them from going bankrupt, lose their scientific, technological, technological and productive potential. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 14.05. In 2012, the overall assessment of the well - founded legislative proposals aimed at supporting the shipbuilding sector is positive. Given that the shipbuilding sector ensures the gradual development of the economy of the state, it supports the necessary level of its scientific and technical potential, the members of the committee have decided on a draft Ukrainian Law on the conduct of an economic experiment on State support for shipbuilding industry to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and propose to adopt it as a basis. [[Registration number 10360]] Dear National Deputies! Let's also support our national shipbuilding producer, as we supported our aircraft manufacturer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u55	Thank you. Yes, who worked in shipbuilding companies other than Lašek. Yeah, Kick-Ass worked, so who else insists? Please, Bully and Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I did not work in shipbuilding companies. But I know that once there were thousands and tens of thousands of people working in shipbuilding companies -- in Mikolaev, in Crimea, and in other shipyards. And today these people are out of work and out of pay. We're just ahead of this bill, so I'm going to support the shipbuilding bill. But before that we've been looking at a bill to support the domestic aviation sector, but I don't think we should understand who got to the rostrum, who's protecting one branch, who's protecting another branch. Who will protect Ukrainian workers who do not work? Who will protect Ukrainian potato producers who cannot sell 30 copies a kilo of potatoes? Who will protect the workers of the Lysican oil refinery who have lost their jobs since June 1st? And whoever protects the employees of the Luhansk Heat Plant, we are from the Czech Republic, we are from Korea buying heat and we are not buying our own Lugani. I think that we need to go beyond the specific laws on supporting one or the other, we need to radically change the economic policy of the state. The government has to bring a bill here immediately, immediately. First. On a radical tax reduction for all sectors of the domestic economy. The other one. About radical restrictions on access to Ukraine. We have imported combines and tractors in our fields instead of harkian or Hersonian. We have import planes on our domestic planes instead of our Ukrainians flying. We eat Egyptian potatoes instead of eating black potatoes. We consume Russian gas instead of having flat peat or Donbasian coal. We need a policy of protecting a domestic producer, that's what we need for our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u57	Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u58	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I also did not work in shipbuilding companies, but as a journalist, I have been associating with shipbuilders for many years because there are really, really many problems. You know, our president had already opened and the red tape was cut when the Corvette program was announced and it was supposed to be a corvette building. If everyone understands, if this bed is not designed, of course, there was nothing to bet. But sometimes such strange things happen. But in fact, we understand the following. That the next bill that we're talking about is incredibly fantastic, and that's why it's pianist. Because one of the authors of this bill has to go around one of the districts in the city of Mikolayev, and it's like it's supposed to protect the shipbuilding, and that's understandable. But somehow when one of the head of the shipbuilding company in Mikolayev, when the taxpayers began to be insolvent, there was no one to protect the shipbuilders, but that's not the point. We understand that the granting of State guarantees for foreign loans granted by foreign states, banks and so on can lead to what took place in the 1990s when the state was responsible for contracts that were signed in construction. Lascardis and they were building to the detriment of the state. We remember this, it was not long ago. Therefore, we need to be very and very careful about this bill. But what we do understand is that it's necessary to spend credit, pay taxes and pay taxes, see what's going on with customs legislation -- of course it's necessary, it's very necessary. But we understand that this bill in the first reading of the hall can be voted on and we will vote for it, but since this bill is a pianist, it will have no real one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, Katerina Seminovna? Please, Samuel, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u60	Give me, uh, thank you, Adam Ivanovich. And I want to say right now that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is going to vote in favour of the bill. You didn't have to rehearse from this rostrum. We need to take a close look at what is proposed for shipbuilding. These are the questions that the Hersonians and the Santa Claus are asking us. Please tell me, who will not agree that we need to do some part-time lending? Of course you do. Because our industry can't handle the kind of loans that we actually have today. Please tell us, do we have questions or do we not have questions about the invalidity of the Public Procurement Act? And we know that our shipbuilding industry just can't move forward because it's kandals on its feet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u61	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u62	The law is timely or even a little late. And we want, we'll support. But we would ask that not only we adopt this law but it be implemented and that no budget ever suspends its operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have so many more bills. Let's support the shipbuilders. There you go. All right, Vitaly? And then I'll give you something on your subject. I put to the vote to adopt in the first reading the draft Law on conducting an economic experiment on State support for the shipbuilding industry, please vote. [[Registration number 10360]] [[5:05:51]] For 260 The Law was adopted in the first reading. The factions. The factions. Yes, please, the Party of Regions is 184, BUT and Our Ukraine is zero, the Communist faction is 25, the People's Party is 20, reforms are 19, non-fractional is 12. We're listening to a question: the draft Civil Protection Code for Ukraine, so how many articles are there in it? [[Registration number 10294]] Unfortunately, more than a hundred. Therefore, we do not have the right to have a reduced procedure. Please. Reports Deputy Minister of State Vasil Pavlovich Kwasuk. Get ready for Seminosi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u64	Dear National Deputies! The need for the adoption of the Civil Protection Code is, first of all, provided for the unconditional implementation of article 3 of the Constitution, according to which a person, his or her life, health and safety are recognized as the highest social value. Second, the need to improve the civil protection system. The law in this area today regulates some 10 laws of Ukraine, often in conflict with each other, some of them have lost their relevance and need to be repealed, such as the Civil Defence Act. The code is the result of joint and long - term work by virtually all central and local authorities. It is intended to ensure the functioning of a comprehensive civil protection system in Ukraine, taking into account better world experience. The main tasks involved in the adoption of the Code are: to establish basic legal and economic standards for the functioning of civil protection of the State; to define the only principles of public policy in this area; to distribute powers of central and local authorities; and to manage subjects in the area of legal regulation. The proposed bill codifies the seven laws of Ukraine. Finally, the Code provides for measures to reduce supervisory and control functions in the field of technological and fire safety. The procedure for obtaining the approval of fire safety authorities for the start of work is completely cancelled. There is only a judicial order to stop the work of the operators and only for disturbances that endanger the lives or health of the people. This will make business conditions in Ukraine much easier. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to adopt the draft Civil Protection Code as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u65	Thank you. Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. I'd like to ask Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The draft Code of Civil Protection for Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, is under consideration. The purpose of the bill is to systematize legislation in the area of civil protection, to eliminate existing conflicts and duplications in the field of legal regulation, to clearly allocate powers and functions of central and local executive authorities, civil protection subjects, to define in a single legislative act all the principles of public policy in the area of civil protection, to ensure its implementation in peacetime and during a special period. The implementation of Ukraine’s draft Law does not require additional spending from Ukraine’s state budget, according to the Cabinet of Ministers. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, supporting the idea of the need to systematize legislation on the protection of the population and the territory from emergencies, made a number of comments and suggestions on the bill. Generalizing the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the first reading of the bill is that it is appropriate to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. At the same time, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, having examined the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, concluded that these observations could be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. On May 23, 2012, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Code of Civil Protection for Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be based on the first reading. [[Registration number 10294]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u67	Anatoly Ivanovich, what is there really so serious that we couldn't get him right away?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u68	The point is, once again, as a committee, we have no right to make corrections or remarks on the first reading, so it is decided that we will take into account the comments made by the expert management in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u69	Thank you. Any questions to Anatoly Ivanovich? Thank you. Yes, who wants to talk?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u70	Thank you, too. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Civil Protection Code for Ukraine. [[Registration number 10294]] Please be kind. Everyone in the room has only to vote in favour, and whoever doesn't will have an emergency tomorrow. [[17:12:29]] For the 250. Copy that. And, in principle, that's a very good thing. We should thank the government, first of all, to the ministry, which really creates such a code. It's very necessary. We are considering: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the recommended list of structural units of local government administrations]] [[Registration number 10124]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:13:16]] For the 220. Supported. We're glad to hear that, Minister, because the ministers have rare guests, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of the Twin Anatoly Mikhailovich. Please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, designed by the Ministry to implement the decisions of the Council of the Regions. [[on the recommended list of structural units of local government administrations]] The draft law amends Ukraine's Budget Code, Ukraine's laws: "On Local Government Administrations", "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine" and "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine". The proposed changes are the following. It is proposed to exclude the division of the structural divisions of local government administrations into major administrations, administrations, and departments. That is, it will allow the heads of local government administrations to determine their status on their own, taking into account the territorial features in the context of administrative reform, well, department, administration. If there is a coal industry in the Donetsk region, and in other areas there is, let's say, no, the head will make the decision. It is proposed to adopt a universal default position on the structural units of local government administrations, to provide an executive vertical to determine the general management approaches, the powers given by law for all the structural units of the local public administration instead of the current standard regulations. The adoption of the bill will allow a change in the approach to determining the list of structural units of local administrations, namely, simplify the existing practice when changes to the Government's Ordinance on the Recommended List of Structural Units of the Local Government give rise to the need to develop an appropriate default position on modified or newly created.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u72	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u73	Thank you for your attention. Please support and accept as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u74	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee reports to Demchishen Vasil Vasilovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on April 11th reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the recommended list of structural units of local government administrations]] [[Registration number 10124]] The bill lays down the legal regulation of individual matters of the organization of local government administrations and amends the Ukrainian Budget Code and three laws. In particular, the said acts propose to remove specific names of local government departments and replace them with the generalized formulation of "structural units". [[Offices, Departments]] I'm going to point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is proposing to reject this bill, saying, inter alia, that change may lead to the destruction of existing legal features of the administrations and departments of local government administrations. The Committee, analysing the nature and content of the proposed changes to some Ukrainian laws on the regulation of the organizational structure of local government administrations, considers it necessary to note that they do not give any basis for the allegations of fundamental changes in the legal status of departments that will form the local government administration as they have been. The formation is carried out by the heads of local government, which corresponds to part three of article 118 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Nor does it change the standards according to which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will approve the default position on the structural unit of the local government administration and the recommending list of their structural units. Similarly, the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, according to which the structural units of local government administrations, regardless of their specific names, are accountable and accountable to the respective heads of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u76	Thank you. Please sit down, please. You already said the committee is asking for support. I ask the rapporteurs not to read what each deputy has, briefly, clearly the position of the committee. No one's going to insist on the discussion? Then I put a motion to the vote, and I think it's worth listening to. Look, the law is one and a half sentences. Why would we have to do that? First, second, third, tenth. If there is no objection, I am putting to the vote the proposal: to adopt as a law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the recommendations of the structural divisions of local government administrations, please vote. [[Registration number 10124]] [[17:19:24]] For 263 The law was passed because the minister himself reported. [[Applause]] The more the ministers come to us, the faster they go with the laws. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of economic activity in order to ensure the functioning of diplomatic representations and consular institutions of foreign states, representing international intergovernmental organizations in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10411]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. And I invite the First Deputy Foreign Minister, Ruslan Mikhailovich Demchenk, to the rostrum. [[17:20:12]] For 225 Decision supported. Please, Ruslan Mikhailovich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u77	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! This bill has been drafted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to address the issue of economic activity and to ensure the functioning of diplomatic representations and consular institutions of foreign states in Ukraine. The bill amends the Ukrainian Master Code and the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental. It is proposed to identify the state-owned enterprise and to ensure that diplomatic representations and consular institutions of foreign states in Ukraine are functioning in relation to its property. Ukraine's budget code on excluding income from the rent of a real estate and other separate, individually defined property of a listed state-owned enterprise from the income of Ukraine's State Budget General Fund. As well as the Ukrainian Act on the Management of State Property Objects on the Exemption of the State Enterprise from Turning Part of Net Income to the State Budget of Ukraine. An important part of the bill is that its approval will contribute to the implementation of bilateral agreements whereby diplomatic representation and others and their staff are placed on a free basis. On the basis of reciprocity, Ukrainian diplomatic representations in the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Cuba, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Turkmenistan, the Republic of Uzbekistan do not pay their rent. On the other hand, an appropriate state enterprise in Ukraine does not charge rents for the diplomatic premises of these countries in Ukraine. Today, the United Nations Inter-Governmental Agreements on Relation on a Free Foundation of the Embassy of Estonia, Tajikistan, and the Permanent Representation of the United Nations are being signed and reviewed. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u78	Thank you. Irina Anatolyevna, member of the Committee on Economic Policy
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 22 May, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on economic activities to ensure the functioning of diplomatic missions and consular institutions of foreign States. And decided to support the bill in the first reading, because it has just been very detailed by the Deputy Minister that the practice proposed in this bill is almost in many European countries in China. Therefore, it would be perfectly logical if we made the same rules in Ukraine. It is therefore proposed that the Committee decide to adopt the bill as a basis and take into account all the comments and suggestions of the Executive Office of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u80	Thank you. Shall we vote? I put to the vote the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the specificity of economic activity in ensuring the functioning of diplomatic representations and consular institutions of foreign states, representing international intergovernmental organizations in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10411]] Please vote. [[17:24:05]] For 261 Thank you. The draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement on the purchase of goods, jobs and services necessary for the implementation of projects for environmental investments is under consideration. [[Green]] [[Registration number 10502]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:24:45.]] For 221 Supported. A member of the Economic Policy Committee, Horin Irina Anatolovna, reports. She's one of the drafters of the bill and the committee. Please deposit in two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u81	I'll try. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The essence of the bill is as follows. Since 2008, Ukraine's budget has been allocated 4.8 billion dollars to energy savings projects under Kyoto quotas under the Kyoto Protocol agreement of Japan and Spain. The project selection system has proved to be very detailed and long enough, and so far more than 1,000 projects have been selected, an amount of 4.8 billion bracelets, but unfortunately only 50 of them have been implemented in the amount of about one hundred million, and the agreement ends at the end of this year. If we do not accept this bill now little that Ukraine will lose this money, we will have to pay 5 billion fines for failing to comply with the terms of the contract and this money has not been implemented under the agreement. We are therefore proposing to release for this period these green, so-called, investments under the Public Procurement Act in order to enable us to implement these projects. They represent 95 per cent of projects called social rehabilitation of public institutions – in simple language, replacement of windows and doors in public institutions, hospitals and administrations. To naturally enable us to integrate energy-saving technologies. There is doubt that I am now, so to say, in espousing the question that quick action may result in some abuse or inadequate control of these funds, which will now be reproduced upon purchase by one buyer. I want to tell you that every two weeks, the review board,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u83	which works on the Agency's territory and on the part of Japan, and on the part of Spain, very clearly controls the targeted use of this money in a project selected by the Green Investment Agency. In this sense, fines for the non-earmarked use of budget money are twice as normal, i.e. very large amounts of money will have to be paid if they are spent incorrectly. Therefore, our proposal, both as drafters of the bill and as decided by the committee, to support the law on first reading and generally as a law because it is very necessary. Otherwise, we will be in line with the timetable and will not comply with the Kyoto Protocol under this agreement, and this will be a very unbelievably beautiful face of Ukraine at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u84	Yes, dear colleagues, yes, sign in. Garbage, please. Behind him is the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u85	Smiling Party of the Regions. Well, first of all, I want to thank the people's deputies, why they're paying attention, why the Ministry of Ecology didn't pay attention to the problems that we have in this regard. If indeed, we have about 4 billion money, it was properly reflected in the budget, and this procedure, as a minimum, should have started six months ago. In order to fulfill, first of all, our obligations to our colleagues to our partners, who have kindly given us, for what is happening in our own way, in our ecology. And we could significantly improve this year’s sanitation, environmental, temperature, and other conditions in hospitals, schools, and so forth. Clearly, then, there is only six months left and everything needs to be done to make immediate use of it. And for the future. If we get that kind of money and there are possibilities, and in the future, we have to prepare the programs early. And early decisions are needed in order to make timely decisions in line with the demands of international organizations of other countries that provide such money. That's why I support this bill. It is not enough to oblige the government to do everything in order to ensure that the funds are used in a timely manner, the purpose and control of the funds, the use of transparent means to ensure that there are no complaints from international organizations, and from our opponents that money outside the competition has been used for no purpose. I think it is our duty, the responsibility of our government, to make this procedure the most transparent, honest, and effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u86	Please, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, you know, I'll start with the following: on behalf of the MP group, we'd like to say the next position. We will not vote in favour of this bill. With great respect for the drafters of the bill, particularly for Irina Gorina, who is doing a great deal on the Ukrainian charity market. But what did we do for 2, 3, 4 years in this state? Why did we raise this subject today? Why does the use of 4.8 billion dollars raise this question just today? Why are we raising the only tool for accelerating the implementation of these initiatives five times in a row over the past month and a half, namely, to get rid of the Ukrainian State Procurement Act? Why? It clearly regulates the very fact that purchases are made at government expense exclusively in a transparent process in a competitive environment. You can't walk away from this. Little, I would like to remind the national MPs that today the Act on State Procurement provides for so - called special procurement conditions for one or the other. So let's at least refer to this, because then the procedure is clearly written out, it's approved and it's public, it's transparent and it's followed by all the participants in a supply that provides its services within this project. Not enough of my own experience to say that it's impossible for us to adopt this kind of money for six months without doing it here. So you have to ask the question in another way: How do you make sure that their quality, the use of this money, is as high as possible, taking into account the legislation in force? You don't have to break it. Therefore, the MPs will not vote for him in either first or second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'd like to ask those who don't want to vote in favour of this bill when they last met in rural areas with school principals? When was the last time they were in the village and saw the FAPs? When was the last time they were in the village and saw clubs in which since 1861?Oh, my God! So if you looked at them, if you saw the wind blowing in those windows in the winter, when the kids were sitting in preschools and didn't know what to do there, they probably said otherwise. I am also in solidarity with you that when government purchases are simplified, someone is wrong. But here's the free money, here's the money from the non-state budget! There's money you can't use except windows! And if you don't use that money, the wind in the windows will still whistle. So, dear fellows, believe me, whoever's in the villages, the person who sees these troubles is a very different subject to this bill. Because once and for all, money is not state money, money that can only be used for these technologies. You don't use it, you don't have to use it, you don't have to write it, you don't get to impose fines. So, come on, let's not be more generalized sometimes by the Pope of Rome. Because there are problems. I didn't mention the Chaplin. So there's nothing to justify. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed to implement projects of targeted environmental investments. [[Green]] Please vote. [[17:34:27]] For 244 Thank you, 244. Believe me, FAPs, libraries, country clubs, schools, children's schools will thank us, thank you and thank you again. And thank you for having responded with understanding. We are considering the draft Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Discrimination in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10468]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:35:14]] For 214 Thank you. Reported by the Deputy Justice Minister, Vorona Dmitry Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law was developed in the development of part one and part two of article 24 of the Constitution. It is to become a fundamental law in the system of anti-discrimination legislation in Ukraine. The absence in Ukraine of a legislative definition of basic principles for preventing and combating discrimination, including the need to apply the principle of non-discrimination in Ukraine's legislation, the identification of policies for preventing and combating discrimination and the mechanisms for its implementation, makes it impossible to improve the effectiveness of prevention and countering this phenomenon. Addressing conceptual issues of prevention and anti-discrimination through the adoption of a framework law will ensure that state policy can be implemented in this area on the basis of the only principles and approaches. The project proposes to introduce anti-discrimination expertise, including those required for draft laws of Ukraine, acts of the President, other legal acts. In line with the bill, "discrimination is a decision, action or omission aimed at restrictions or privileges on an individual or group of persons based on race, colour of skin, political, religious and other beliefs" and so on. Forms of discrimination are offered to recognize: direct discrimination, indirect discrimination, incitement to discrimination, and oppression. Subjects with powers to prevent and combat discrimination are invited to identify: the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, Kabmin, other state authorities. The adoption of the bill will allow the legislative framework for preventing and combating discrimination in Ukraine in order to ensure equal opportunities for the realization of human and civil rights and freedoms. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u90	Yes, please, who's on the committee? Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u91	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Colleagues, May 23, 2012, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting discussed a project on principles for preventing and combating discrimination in Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of this bill is to establish institutional rules and mechanisms to prevent and combat discrimination. The bill defines the concept of discrimination and its basic forms, sets priorities for public policy in preventing discrimination and empowering public authorities in this area. This is very important in view of the fact that Ukraine's legislation currently does not contain a definition of discrimination, which in turn has a negative impact on the effectiveness of countering this phenomenon. In discussing the bill, members of the committee expressed a wide range of comments to its text and noted that the issues already raised were largely regulated in the Constitution and in the current legislation of Ukraine. At the same time, members of the committee stressed the importance of further improving legal regulation in the field of human rights and the need to bring Ukraine’s legislation to international standards. In our view, the adoption of an anti-discrimination law will first demonstrate the political will of the State to overcome discrimination and will enable it to be more effective. In addition, it is important that the adoption of this project will contribute to the tasks envisaged in the EU visa liberalisation action plan for Ukraine. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not see the need to adopt a special law on the prevention and resistance of discrimination. According to the discussion, the committee approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a draft Act on Principles for Prevention and Opposition of Discrimination in Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u92	Thank you. Yes, shall we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on Principles for Prevention and Opposition to Discrimination in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10468]] Please vote. [[5:39:55]] For 239. Thank you. Copy that. We're looking at a bill amending the Ukrainian Notaryate Act. [[on State regulation of notarial activities]] [[Registration number 10364]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:40:25]] For 209 Offer supported. Report to the Deputy Justice Minister of Dmitry Crow. Prepare Zabarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In order to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine on certain issues of deregulation, the requirements of current legislation and the issue of the possibility of reducing the number of notary actions were analysed. A short list of actions is proposed: the removal of the ban on the deprivation of immovable property subject to State registration, the imposition of a ban on the alienation of means of transport, the removal of the ban on the alienation of means of transport subject to State registration, and the issuance of a certificate on the basis of a joint application of the spouse for a share of the joint property of the spouse. The project also sets out additional grounds for State control in the field of state regulation of notarial activity, defines the status of notarius as a public official and a professional in the field of law, provides for a more demanding and appropriate approach to the organizational and legal principles of notarius activity and broadening the legal basis for bringing them to account. In addition, there are developed and completed positions regarding the notary’s helper and the issue of admission to the profession is settled. The relevance of the changes made to the law is also due to the need, based on the gains of international experience and taking into account changes in national legislation, the creation of legal organisational conditions for Ukraine's entry into the International Union of Notaries. Ukraine’s notary reform continued, and today there are only two problems that hinder the entry into the International Union of Notaries. This is the essence of a single professional self - control organization responsible for the implementation of professional ethics of notaries. The removal of these obstacles will enable Ukraine's notary to become a full member of this organization, confirmed by the delegation of the International Union of Notaries, whose visit to Ukraine took place in September 2011. Yes, the project also proposes the creation of a professional self-governing organization of notaries, the Notary Chamber of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u94	Thank you. Zabarski Vladislav, head of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u95	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I think we should thank the deputy minister, who has made this bill and its purpose and purpose very clear to us. It should be noted that, during the consideration of the proposed bill at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, on May 10, 2012, members of the committee agreed on the position of the subject of the right to legislative initiative on the need for further reform of Ukraine’s notary and to ensure better quality of notarial service for citizens. Taking into account what has been said, given the positive conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the Committee of the Supreme Council recommended that the first reading should be based on the prescribed bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u96	Thank you. Shall we? I'm voting on the proposal to adopt in the first reading the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Notariat. [[on State regulation of notarial activities]] [[Registration number 10364]] The "Reforms" group. Also, please vote. Vote. [[17:43:56]] For 253 They didn't guess. Adopted in the first reading. We're listening to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[concerning the powers of the Ukrainian State Migration Service]] [[Registration number 10268]] As reported by the national deputy, Olijnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, co-reported by Oleg Zarubinsky. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u97	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, a project designed in response to the need to carry out legislation in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the redistribution of powers between the central executive authorities in connection with the administrative reform carried out to implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of December 9, 2010, No. 1085, on optimizing the system of central executives. The purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into the sphere of citizenship, registration of natural persons and the procedure for drafting documents for going abroad in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the redistribution of powers. To this end, the bill proposes to amend two Ukrainian legislative acts regulating the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Migration Service and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In order to implement the draft Ukrainian Law, it does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The projected outcome of the adoption of this Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the powers of central executive authorities to ensure the implementation of State policy in the field of migration will ensure the introduction of Ukrainian legislative acts in the field of citizenship, the registration of natural persons and the issuance of documents for departure abroad in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the redistribution of powers between central executive authorities in connection with the implementation of administrative reform. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u98	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u99	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, this bill, number 10268, has been drafted for the legislative consolidation of the redistribution of powers between the central executive authorities, according to an administrative reform to implement the Ukrainian Presidential decree on the optimization of the system of central executives. As we know, the administrative reform has created a new central executive body of the Ukrainian Migration Service. Accordingly, the Migration Service was transferred from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to part of the powers in the field of migration and legal status of foreigners. The low level of these powers is enshrined in legislation. It should be noted that the redistribution of basic powers in the areas mentioned between the IMF and the Migration Service took place by making appropriate changes to legislation in a number of bills. In view of the many circumstances, however, individual powers of the Migration Service remained unregulated by the above - mentioned bills. Here's the bill that's been submitted to fill this gap. More specifically, the substance of the change is the replacement of the Ukrainian National Passport Act and the Ukrainian Citizens'Certificate of Birth, and the Ukrainian Citizens'Passport for Entry abroad, which mentions the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Passport Service, the Internal Affairs Authority of the Central Executive Authority, which ensures the implementation of State policy in the field of citizenship. That's the point of the bill. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the approval of a passport of a Ukrainian citizen, a birth certificate and a passport of a Ukrainian citizen for departure abroad is deleted, but since the order of birth certificates is regulated by the relevant decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So this document doesn't go anywhere. In its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u100	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u101	The main scientific and expert office is proposing that the bill be sent for further work. The committee, in turn, considered 23.05. In 2012, at its meeting, the draft bill, as a result of its consideration of the bill, proposed a committee in the first reading adopted on the basis of it. [[author or subject of the law-making initiative of colleague Olijnik]] Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u102	Thank you. Vote? To be accepted as a basis, the bill should be sent for pre-processing, writes the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[concerning the powers of the Ukrainian State Migration Service]] [[Registration number 10268]] Please vote. [[17:49:55]] For 259. We're looking at draft laws amending Ukraine's Earth Code. [[on how to conduct land trades]] [[Registration number 10231, 10231-1, 10231-2, 10231-3]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:50:31]] For 221 Supported. Please, Tolstenko Vladimir Leonidovich. Welder Igor Teodorovich. Cook, report to the bill go.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u103	The honourable colleagues, after the bill we have tabled, have been approved for consideration in the Supreme Council, another, he's a more complex bill, which has completely accounted for all the novels we have proposed. So we tend to have a bill that is proposed by the committee, a corresponding committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u104	So Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinovich, of course. No, we're not voting yet. Deputy Head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Bebezenko Valerius, who's from the Agrarian Committee? You are, and I'm giving you Bevanko, and I've given you my word that you're already in a government bed. And we continue the session for 15 minutes. Don't groan, or I'll go on for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! You will have to consider the draft Ukrainian Registration Act 10231-3 on its content: Article 137 of the Ukrainian Land Code stipulates that land auctions are conducted in accordance with the established law against which a special law would not be adopted today. As a result, local authorities have begun to establish rules for auctioning by their own acts, but all of these acts are outside the legal field, which raises doubts about the contracts entered into at auctions. The bill is still proposed for your consideration at the legislative level to determine the order of sale of land and the acquisition of rights on competitive grounds. The bill proposes not to be defined in a separate law, but is proposed by amending and introducing in a new edition of articles 135, 139 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which fall under chapter 21 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. This is explained by the fact that the Ukrainian Code of Land should be a genuine codified legislative act that regulates land relations in full and detailed terms, not just a meeting of law enforcement. The bill proposes to settle issues related to the selection of land for sale at land trade, preparation and auctions. The bill proposes that the sale of rent rights be waived as a property right when the use of a property property is to be paid in fact twice the price. And let's go to the winners of the auction of the person who offered a bigger rent. With a view to avoiding a situation where a reasonable period of time may pass between the auction and the contract, the bill proposes the obligation to make a corresponding agreement on the day of the winner’s determination. It's about the difference between the bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u107	It should be said that it envisages a contract for the sale of land leases, not by the auctioneer, but by the owner of the land. In addition, it envisages setting a starting price for the sale of a land area of 100 percent of its value. At the same time, when Bill 10231 sets such a price in 80 percent, Bill 10231-2 generally provides for the possibility of implementing the land area for 1 bracelet. In addition, the bill's standards are more structured and meet the requirements of design technology. According to the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Bill 10231-3 should be the basis, and all the useful rules of alternative bills could be used in preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention, and please support this decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u108	Thank you. Yeah, except for Laishka, who was walking under the Supreme Council with the cow, who else knows the village? And Žuravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. That's what you said about the cow. Adam Ivanovich, and I brought that cow here, so you can look at that cow, and you can't get away from people at all, you don't know which way to get to that cow. Tell you what, you will take the cow by the corner with your government, the prime minister, and the minister of agriculture. That's why I brought the cow, not just the cow, but where we bring the bull here. And they will grow up, which is not in Ukraine today. Because we're being driven along by Polish milk, Belarusian and all. And our people can't sell a liter of milk at 1.30. And you smart people don't trade in land, you trade in goods, you trade in goods. What are you guys doing? And you want to trade the land. You want to take the last treasure from the Ukrainian people in the Ukrainian state. You oligarchs have spread the industry, you've raised the people's retirement age, you've taken the people's future, the perspective, you've left people unemployed, no wages. And today, a gang wants to take the land from people. That cow will go nowhere else except under the Supreme Council. For where shall the wretched cow of the country lead, when the meadows have built up their belongings, have covered the road to the water, there are no haystacks, there is no place to shepherd the cow! Where to eat, milk to sell! What are you thinking?Oh, my God! And you think about how you can increase your billions and save yours! And we need to think about people! We must not sell land, lower taxes to peasants, give less than 3 percent credit and ban imports into Ukraine so that Ukrainian potatoes, Ukrainian Greeks, Ukrainian apples, cucumbers and tomatoes are sold in Ukraine! And so the whole world can eat our agricultural production. Who are you lobbying?Oh, my God! Instead of our people, you support importers! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u110	Yes, with knowledge of the matter. Zuravsky, please. Prepare Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u111	Vitaly Zuravsky, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, we are looking at very specific bills. I propose to support Bill 10231-3 exactly why. Because the adoption of this bill will allow for a substantial increase in the availability of funds to government and local budgets. Well, those who know a lot about how to milk cows are offered to send cows to the village to feed cows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u112	Sergei Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u113	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the importance and relevance of the proposed bills. After the adoption of the Earth Code and the repeal of the well - known decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, there is a huge problem in administrations. Hundreds of thousands of hectares of land cannot be legally used today. Today, there is no mechanism that allows those who want to rent state land. And there is no way for the authorities to hand over the land today. Therefore, the bill has already been in place for the third year. So the faction of the People's Party is asking you to support the bill. But the most successful is Bill 10231-3, which contains the least flaws. So, honourable colleagues, let's vote in favour of this bill and for two weeks we will allow the authorities of the state to place themselves in a legitimate way to rent land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u114	Sergey Gordienko and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u115	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Well, if the radio listens and thinks, yes, of course, the subject is important and relevant. And I, as a former and current employee of local self-government, can tell you the following, that it all began when the Earth Code was introduced and we took the right of local councils to manage their land and to rent it and other, other things to do. And this is where all the problems started. You've got to get these bills out of the way. Yes, indeed, this problem exists and needs to be given a mechanism. But when we read all the bills carefully, none of these bills even say that it will not be distributed on the land of agricultural assignment. This is a very serious danger because at our own time, when this time comes, we will use these bills and will conduct both sales and trade and agricultural land. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will not vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u116	Question completed. Let's put all the bills to the vote. Bill number 10231 is being voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:01:34]] For-0 Bill number 10231-1. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:01:55]] For 1 Not accepted. Bill number 10231-2 is being voted on. I'd like to make up my mind. [[6:02:17]] For 1 Not accepted. Bill number 10231-3 is being voted on. The committee's offering him a foundation. Please vote. [[18:02:44]] For 235 Copy that. Yes, dear fellows. No, no, no, no, no. Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, today was tense and there was little confusion under one law. I'm taking your charge against me because they haven't focused a bit. Please return to the State's Guarantees Bill on the Enforcement of Judgments, which we have voted with you on second reading. [[9127]] Also, please return to the vote in favour of agenda 10356 is the draft Act amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Railways Act on the Responsibility of Carriers of International Passenger Transport, a draft of the People's Deputies of Mironnenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m1.u118	Yes, dear colleagues, regarding Bill 9127. Before you return, once again, in a calm environment, because everyone listens carefully and does not interrupt, I emphasize. If we go back to him, we're only going to vote on Chapter One. And the third chapter in the bill adopted in the first reading on amending a whole series of legislative acts relating to the benefits of those or other categories, we do not vote, except for two dates: the first date that this law takes effect from 1 January 2013, and the second position that the Cabinet of Ministers should draft the relevant bills not until 2013 as recorded, but by 2014. Again and again, if we go back, we will vote in this order. Do you have a deal? Just chapter one and two dates of chapter three. I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft state guarantee bill on the enforcement of court decisions. [[Registration number 9127]] Please vote. [[18:05:28]] For 240 We're back. I'm going to put to the vote what I said, and I want the voters to hear us again. In the first chapter of this law, which we are voting on, it is called "the guarantees of the State with regard to the enforcement of judicial decisions", that is, if we adopt this law, we will once again confirm the constitutional rule that the State is obliged to comply with the decisions of the courts. Because you know how many myths there are today. There is a solution, but it is not being implemented. So that there will be no abuse and accusations that voted and took away the benefits. We don't touch Chapter Two. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and as a whole, as a law of the State Guarantees Act on the enforcement of judicial decisions, only the first chapter and the second chapter that it will enter into force from 1 January 2013 and the Kabmin to develop the relevant legislative acts by 2014. I'd like to vote on that. [[18:07:09]] For 259. Thank you. The law is passed. And literally, we have a few votes, a few votes. There is a proposal: to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending Ukraine's health legislation to impose restrictions on managers and employees of preventive and pharmaceutical pharmacies, please vote. [[Registration number 10560]] [[18:08:06]] For 258. Thank you, it's on. It is proposed to include in the agenda of the day's session a bill numbering 10561 amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase liability for falsification or the circulation of falsified medical devices. Please vote. These are government bills that have been drafted according to the decision of the National Security and Defence Council on the situation that has arisen in this area. [[18:08:44]] For 262 Thank you. It's on. All the bills in this series I told you about. It is proposed to include in the agenda of the daily session a bill numbering 10562 amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the licensing of imports of medicinal products and the definition of the term “active pharmaceutical ingredient”. Please vote. 10562. [[18:09:25]] For 259. Thank you. And the proposal is to include in the agenda of the day's session a bill numbering 10563 amending certain laws of Ukraine to prohibit medical advertising. Please vote. [[18:09:59]] For 257 Included in the agenda of the day session. And there was a proposal to go back to the question: the inclusion in the agenda of the draft bill number 10356 -- the draft Act amending article 22-1 of the Ukrainian Railway Transport Act. Because there was some misunderstanding. Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. [[18:10:40]] For 261 We're back. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law amending article 22-1 of the Ukrainian Rail Transport Act. [[Registration number 10356]] Please vote. [[18:11:10]] For 261 Thank you. The bill is included. And that's how the program is going to be shortened, because we're not working next week, so it's still shorter. You understand that if you and I had two in a row, it would have been shortened. So, dear colleagues, we have done everything we can today. Thank you for your work. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Tomorrow we start work at 10 o'clock.
