ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:01]] They registered in the 405 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Natalia Jurijovna Královska. Please welcome Natalia Yuriovna on her birthday, wish her success. [[Applause]] Something weak, it's weak. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on May 17, 2012. Seventy-six questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 20 laws and 38 regulations were passed, 14 bills were adopted on the basis of which 3 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 17 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of the President's proposals, three laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, four laws have been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 p.m. Is that what this is about? Please, Jaroslav Kenzier, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u2	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, today the Crimean Tatar nation celebrates the tragic emigration of the entire nation from their historic land. I suggest that you ask the deputies to honor the memory of all the dead as a result of this removal, eviction from the historical territory of the entire nation, and all those who died during this Communist regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to honor the memory of the people who were evicted from their homeland. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Honourable national MPs, representatives of the MPs and groups made a proposal: during "hours of questions to the Government" to hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of social policy in the state, including in the implementation of the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine. The parliamentary factions of the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party of Ukraine, the People's Party and the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, informed the Cabinet of Ministers in advance of the questions to be asked during the "hour of questions to the Government". Dear colleagues, we have also agreed with you that since there are many questions for members of the Cabinet of Ministers, there will be an opportunity to ask questions to the present members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, particularly the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Foreign Minister is now taking part in the opening of an international conference with the participation of representatives of the European Union, and at 10 o'clock 30 minutes he will also be here with members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To answer the written questions of MP factions and groups today will be Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine Sergey Leonidovich Tihypko. Please, Sergey Leonidovich. I would ask you in turn from each faction on a question. The question is the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u4	Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respectfully invited! 20 written questions came from the MPs of the Supreme Council: six from the Party of the Regions, seven from the People's Party, five from the Reforms for the Future, two from the Communist Party of Ukraine. First question from the faction of the Party of Regions. What will be the increase in pensions for military personnel in reserve? Indeed, the problem of military pensioners is large enough. Because since 2008, their pensions have virtually not increased because their pensions have been tied to the salaries of the military, and the military base rates have not increased, the wages have increased, first of all, at the expense of the premiums, which I think is wrong. What we predict. We've had negotiations with civil service organizations, signed an agreement that as of 1 July of this year, the pension will increase 10 percent, then 10 percent will increase the pension from 1 September. Then, as of January 1, 2013, the pension will rise again by 10.5 percent. In total, this increase will be 36 percent over a six - year period. If you look at what military pensioners are going to do, the level of pension insurance is going to be: now, in the service of years, the average military pension is going to be 1 000 964 dollars, it's going to be 2 000 614 dollars; the military disability today gives you an average pension of 2 000 281 dollars, this pension goes up to 3,000 336 dollars; the loss of a breadwinner of 1 000 167 dollars today amounts to an average pension, it's going to be increased to 1 000 553. The increase consists of $650 for the benefit of the year, $755 for the disability, 386 for the loss of the breadwinner. I want to say again why this high level, because since 2008, these pensions haven't risen and they're practically not indexed. Second question of the People's Party MP. What steps does the ministry take to reduce unemployment, and what is vital among young people? If you look at the problem of unemployment, I think it's one of the biggest problems in Ukraine today. The average is both good and good. Where did they start? We had 8 percent in early 2010, unemployment rate according to the International Labour Organization methodology. This year we started with 7.8 percent of the same methodology. But if you look at youth unemployment, it's much more -- it's about 20 percent -- and in rural areas, even worse -- rural unemployment is about 30 percent. Two words I would like to explain about the methodology itself. How does the International Labour Organization measure unemployment? It does very serious surveys, which consists of a survey of 30,000 households all over Ukraine, which provides a representative sample not only in Ukraine but also in all areas. People from 15 to 70 years of age are being tested. And they're considered theoretically unemployed if they're ready to approach work two weeks after they're offered. In order to reduce this unemployment rate, we proposed amendments to the Employment Act. Which positions we believe should stimulate unemployment reduction, and above all for young people. First position. We encourage employers who employ so-called vulnerable types of the population in terms of unemployment. We are talking about young people, people with disabilities, people over 50 who have lost their jobs, orphans, single parents who raise young children, those who have been released from prison. These persons, if employed by employers, will not pay a total of one social contribution for these people in the first year. And he has to hold them for another year. If he doesn't hold on to these people for two years, he's going to have to compensate for the money he didn't pay to the state for a single social contribution in the first year. Second position. We're trying to stimulate entrepreneurs. If a small business, and this is a business of up to 50 employees, will employ people to work practically, regardless of the category, they will be given a discount in the form of a single social contribution from the minimum wage. The same position, two years should work. And if a person fails to work for two years, this enterprise will have to compensate the state for the social benefits. It is also suggested that for high-paid new jobs — three minimum wages — enterprises will receive a 50 - percent discount on a single social contribution for the second year. It is also envisaged that the Cabinet of Ministers will grant privileges to certain specialties needed in the rural area. This aid will amount to 5 minimum wages. This standard now applies to teachers and doctors working in rural areas. 4,000 people have already received this kind of raise, you might say, money. Other specialties are expected to be included in these categories. We have proposed a number of rules to amend this law. The law passed the Cabinet of Ministers. And I'm thinking, whether today or Monday as much as possible, we're going to bring him to the Supreme Council. The MP group of the Reforms for the Future. "The initiative of President Yanukovic of Ukraine to pay thousands of dollars to former investors in the USSR Savings has received broad social resonance and support for the population. First of all, among older people who are now the least socially protected. At the same time, in our view, the government is not sufficiently aware of the process of preparing for the payment of this money, which gives rise to various ideas and curves. This raises such questions. At what stage of readiness is the settlement process? How convenient, simple, and easy to understand for older people is the mechanism for paying off lost savings? Will this year be able to get a thousand dollars from all the owners of the undervalued USSR deposits that haven't been able to get that amount before?" We've changed the situation a little bit with the payment of this thousand dollars. Well, first of all, who's gonna get it. It will be received by all those people. And that's about 6 million citizens who didn't get that thousand dollars before that when the previous government offered to get the bracelets and half the people, about 6 million people, got it and 6 million didn't get it. These people who are left behind, who don't get this money, they're going to get this money by the end of this year. The payment will start on June 1. We're going to propose to people that they can pay cash right away, right in the cash register when they come to Savings. Second position, they can get money on a plastic card. And these cards will have discounts in pharmacies, in food stores, and people will be stimulated to get plastic cards. Whether a person can leave money on a deposit in the Savings Bank at an interest rate. But that will be decided by man himself. I also want to say that payments will not be made as they were done in the previous 2,000 divisions, but they will be made in all departments, and that is about 6,000, "The Savings of Ukraine." At present, 2 million people have been paid, 1 million citizens have already passed the so - called beast, 1 million. There are no queues yet, and the whole process is going smoothly. Since June 1, we're going to start paying people money. Ukrainian Communist Party Dept. "According to the Ukrainian Court of Auditors last year, expenditure of 5 billion $771 million was spent on social security and social security, 8.3 per cent less than in 2010, due to a reduction in government budget expenditure to cover the deficit of the Pension Fund. This raises the question: What has reduced the deficit, not by halting the execution of court decisions on pension payments to children of war and the Chernobylites, about which the number of citizens have been contacted? When will their payment be restored?" Dear National Deputies, indeed, and the support of the Pension Fund from the State Budget in the previous year, in 2011, have been reduced, but has been reduced by improving the income and income of the Pension Fund. I would like to point out that in 2011, social protection spending from the State budget did not go down until 2010, but increased by 3.3 billion dollars. In 2010, they were 95.2 billion, and in 2001 they were 98.5 billion. With regard to the pension deficit, it should be noted that in 2011 the deficit amounted to 6 billion 500 million dollars. And it fell considerably to the deficit in 2010. I'm talking about my own incomes and money just for fear. The reduction in the deficit was not achieved by failing to execute court decisions but by increasing own revenue. Yes, the Ukrainian Pension Fund budget in 2011 received more income than 19 billion, 800 million dollars, or 16.6 percent, of its own income. At the same time, money. Please note that in 2011, in fact, 5.9 billion dollars went to court to implement the rulings. In fact, payments by court decisions were suspended after the Constitutional Court had taken its appropriate decisions. Whether they continue to pay or not, this will be decided by the legislation of Ukraine, or it will be decided in this room. The MP's faction of the Party of the Regions: "What was the amount of one-time aid payments by May 9 for veterans and disabled persons of the Great Homeland War?" Honourable National Deputies, in order to implement the new social initiatives of the President of Ukraine in 2012, the amount of lump sum assistance to the Victory Day for the People with Disabilities of the Great Homeland War was significantly increased by 2011, more than two times. If we take the first group invalidity, in 2011, its payoff amounted to a thousand dollars, and in 2012 these people received support -- 2,000 and 200 dollars. The disabled second group in 2011 received 900 dollars, in 2012 a thousand 920 dollars. The third group received 800 dollars in 2011, and the third group received a thousand, 720 dollars in 2012. I want to say that all this money was given to the areas at the right time, and it's all paid to the people. Question of the People's Party MP: "What additional amounts of budget funding will be earmarked for the implementation of initiatives on mortgage lending? How many families are really going to get that kind of credit?" Dear National Deputies! The budget changes that you have voted on are projected to cost about one billion dollars for mortgages. This makes it possible to make arrangements with a Savingsman who is willing to lend a mortgage of less than 16 percent today, to borrow mortgage loans of about 8 to 9 billion dollars. We're expected to be able to issue more than 30,000 loans this year. For more than 30,000 apartments, 30-35,000. The following year it is projected to be increased to 100,000 apartments. Already today, we have received 1,000 127 applications from 12 areas of Ukraine. These applications have been submitted to the Ukraine Saving Bank, and now this work has begun. I think we'll be able to issue these 30,000 mortgages by the end of the year. It's settled. And the government's decision has already been made that we're starting with that apartment that hasn't been built up today. To give people credit quickly. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction. "It is known that citizens with different social status and welfare are subject to a category of benefits. For example, there are participants and children of war who live on a minimum pension and live in small houses or apartments and have correspondingly little benefits to pay for residential services. At the same time, these benefit categories also include citizens who have high pensions or incomes and large dwellings and subsidies that they receive, for example, for housing and utilities, more when they are contrary to the principles of social justice. When will the government finally put in place a targeted approach to providing social benefits and benefits that will guarantee State support only to socially vulnerable groups?" Indeed, about a third of the population in Ukraine enjoys the right to benefits. And in speaking, since Soviet times, we have had a category, or practically a category approach, when we give benefits to people without considering the state of the family’s income. If you take European countries, all of them work practically as follows: first, if you are entitled to such benefits, you study the income of your family, and only then do you conclude that you are poor or not; and, if you are poor, you can get help. Sadly, we have not yet come to this point, but we have set a good start. If you take two kinds of help today, first of all it's helping low-income families and aiding them with subsidies, they're already going through exactly the way I said, they're studying the income of the family -- and only after that is the payment. In terms of perspectives, the President's strategy, which is set out in an appropriate plan of action, including for which the Cabinet of Ministers is primarily responsible, provides that we should gradually move on to almost all forms of social assistance based on the principle of civic income learning. This will not only apply to those who have special merit before the country, there is talk of war veterans, war invalids, Chernobyl invalids, and other Ukrainian groups. The MP's faction of the People's Party: "Will it not increase the amount of social pay to increase inflation?".. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past two years, we have a very good trend in keeping inflation going. If you look at 2011, prices went up 4.6 percent. Looking at four months this year, prices have risen by 0.7 percent. Now if we look at how social payments are going to be paid, and by the end of the year we're going to have to pay off thousands of dollars to six million people, we're going to have to pay about 20 billion dollars by the end of the year, and I don't think that's going to raise prices. Because if you look at the amount of cash we give people and what they get in a year, this figure is about 900 billion dollars, 900 billion dollars and our 25. Twenty - five stretches by the end of the year. We believe that this situation will not affect price increases. What's more, the payouts, basically, we started in May, and now the pensioners, and the people who get disability insurance, they get that money. And ahead of that, three summer months, which are constantly giving rise to prices rather than rising prices in Ukraine. If we see any trends in these three months, the government will be able to respond very quickly to the situation. The faction of the Party of the Regions: "What will be the mechanism for the return of the citizens of the lost savings in the savings of the former Soviet Union? Would it be more comfortable for citizens than the one that had been implemented by the previous government?".. I said, we're going to offer three types of payments: cash for a plastic card and deposit. We're going to triple the number of branches -- to 6,000 parts of the Savings, that's going to reduce. We're making a beast now, and I want to say that we're doing the beast because we predict that we're going to continue to make such payments in 2013, and in 2014, and in 2015. People's Party MP: "Please tell me, can we talk about the first results of the pension reform that they are now? When can we talk about eliminating the pension deficit?" Since May 1, we have started to raise pensions. And if you look at it, this month 12 million 900,000 pensioners are getting a pension raise. As a result, we have a significant increase in the average pension in Ukraine. On May 1st, after the rise, it's going to be 1 thousand, 399, 21 cents. And also very good results if we look at the number of people who get a pension below 1,000 dollars. If we started this, we had about 10 million people at the beginning of 2010, which was practically the overwhelming majority of pensioners, now there are 3 million people left. We still have a lot of work to do, but I can make that a very good result of the pension increase. There are still no numbers to raise pensions for the military. And I said, answering your questions, that this promotion is going to be very significant, and it's going to start on July 1. Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future: "One of the directions for the implementation of the social initiatives of President Yanukovic of Ukraine is compensation to former investors of the SSR Savings in the current year 6 billion 50 million dollars. In addition, a step - by - step recalculation of insurance payments is envisaged for disabled miners to increase them by an average of 50 dollars. Does the same type of policy cause inflation? What measures does the government take to prejudice inflation growth?" Once again, all the payments, including those now mentioned, will amount to 25 billion by the end of the year. And once again, I want to point out that all the payments we make in cash at the expense of our scientists are about 900 billion. So we think that this volume doesn't change the price situation. And even if the situation changes, we now have very good months to influence the situation. What may be of primary concern to people? These are food prices, here we have opportunities, we have enough reserves of all the food supplies that are provided in the Ukrainian reserve fund, we have practically a full set of reserves. We'll be ready to intervene to change the situation if it gets worse. The faction of the People's Party. "Our voters are interested in the issue of increasing pensions in May this year. What principle will determine the size of the increase in pensions and should we expect by the end of the year the next phase of the increase in pension?" Dear National Deputies! How? Pensions have already been increased for Ukrainians today. First of all, I want to say that 12 million 900,000 people have already received them. We predicted that: first, we've made the upgrade of the average wage since 2006 we've changed to an average salary in 2007 in a formula that defines the pension for each pensioner in Ukraine. This greatly improved the situation for those retired by 2008. We predicted that in all pensioners who have full insurance, this increase could not be less than 100 dollars, in any situation, with any salary that these people received. [[for women of 20 years, for men of 25 years]] This is especially important for those who worked in rural areas. It is also provided for those who are undergraduate, but who are not fully qualified — up to 20 years old women and 25 men — that increase will not be less than 50 dollars. There will be no increase in pensions in all the categories assigned to the pension under separate laws. That is, there will be no promotion of pensioners -- former national deputies, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, the President's Administration, prosecutors and so on. As far as future prospects are concerned, I think we have serious reserves today, given that we have a very large percentage of the shadow wage. If you're talking about what the research says, that's 35-40 percent. If we can detinctify ourselves by promoting business and introducing additional responsibility for business managers, I think such reserves can be significant. And we'll be able to take the next step in 2013. What the government strategy foresees, any additional budget concessions, we should immediately send the maximum amount to increase pensions, those payments that support the poor themselves. From a macroeconomic point of view, that is absolutely correct. This stimulates the internal market when there are problems in the external markets -- I think it'll be very smart macroeconomically. The faction of the People's Party. "Our voters are interested in the issue of increasing pensions in May this year. What will be the principle of appointment?" I already said that by answering that question. The faction of the Party of the Regions. "What will be the basic principles of lending to obtain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u5	Finish up. Finish this question and we'll go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u6	"What will be the basic principles of lending to get a mortgage on housing? What are the criteria and when will they be able to participate in this program?" There are criteria. First of all, we count on those people who are in line today for housing and income categories. There'll be a contribution, first contribution. The maximum of this first contribution must be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u7	Complete your questions and please have another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u8	I'm done, Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u9	Thank you. Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, please sign up to Sergio Leonidovich Tihypco and to the Cabinet of Ministers. You can answer from there if you have questions. Please sign in, dear colleagues. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Yuri Carmazin. Please tell me who you're asking right now. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u10	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. I have a question for those who run social policy, especially Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Tihypak. I also have a question for a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The first question concerns Sergio Leonidovich Tihypak, the terrible social consequences that have now occurred when hospitals are closed in contravention of the Constitution. I personally introduced this norm, the network of hospitals cannot be reduced. In Odessa, for example, out of 11 dental hospitals, a doctor was left with 7. Of the three Tubdispancers, one. In the Dnipropetrovsk district of 22 maternity homes, 13 are closed. All over the country. To the Minister of Internal Affairs. Closed, arrested Ukrainian activists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to make up your questions for a moment. Let me finish, briefly, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u12	Ten seconds. These are the guys Paveliev, Melnik, Lagnouk, Jeremenko, the people being held completely for dismantling illegal slot machines.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u13	Yes, thank you. Please, Sergey Leonidovich. And then the Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! The position of the government in shortening the loving institutions that belong to the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health in the local government has been clearly defined by both the President and the Prime Minister. There should be no shortcuts without offering an alternative. There are no shortcuts without talking to people about a situation in order for people to understand it, so that people can support it, they can't go through it. I'm asking the People's Deputy Karmazin to give us these facts so that the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to deal exactly with these cases. In doing so, we will deal with such cases throughout Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Deputy Interior Minister Ratushnjak, please. I'm asking you there, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for your questions. I'll say, yes, it really was. Now we're doing the right thing to document these actions, but by no means is that what you're saying. There was indeed material damage, and documentation is available on this matter. Accordingly, the material will be referred to the court and the decision taken. More specifically, please ask the MP and we will give you the complete answer and schedule on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u18	My colleague Pavlovsky is fighting, and I will not hold him back, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u19	Andrew Pavlovsky, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u20	Thank you. Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Questions to Sergey Tihypak. Minister, your government, not in 2010, nor in 2011, nor in this year's 2012 government budget has given a penny to the affected investors, even after death. And then all of a sudden, before the election, they mentioned that there was a problem. And what the authorities are trying to do right now is just fail to ape what the government of Timoshenko has done. And in fairness, given the price increase, you have to pay, not Yulina's thousand, but at least three. And if we renew Julia Timoshenko’s ideas, could it be logical to return to the position of head of government, Yule Timoshenko? Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u21	Please, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, it would certainly be better to start serious social initiatives in 2010 as well, but I would like to remind you very briefly. The government was formed in March 2010. Until then, there was no budget and it was only in April that the budget was approved. Unfortunately, in 2009, we had a budget deficit of 15 percent. And in a situation like this, talking about a lot of social payout, well, it was absolutely impossible. But the government raised, began to increase payments, and since January 1, 2010, when it has not yet been responsible for the situation in the country. So we've changed the situation, we've reduced the budget deficit in 2010 to nearly 5 percent, we've reduced the budget deficit to 3 and a half percent in 2011, and now only after we got an economic growth of 4 and a half percent in 2010; 5.2 in 2011, we were able to control prices in 2011 - 4.6 and this year the situation is going well. Only now can we move on to social initiatives. This time. Second, a thousand or more? We think that now we're going to restore the social justice that was violated during the payment of thousands of dollars, because half of it, half of it, half of it, we think it's completely irresponsible and wrong. But what we're proposing is we're going to continue these payments in 2013, and in 2014, with all 12 million investors in the USSR Savings that live in Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u23	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u24	The situation involved the retirement of military and law enforcement personnel. And the word for the question is to pass it on to the expert and professional Valery Bezz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u25	Valerius Beales. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u26	Thank you. Sergey Leonidovich! Today, there is a huge gap between the retirement of those coworkers of internal affairs and those who retired before 2004, and those who retired or formed it after 2004. It's not much, it's a huge expanse of our citizens. We're talking a lot about pensions today, but we're not talking about this category, almost half a million people, at all. What is the government’s plan in this regard, and when? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u27	Please, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Beales. Indeed, the situation of military pensioners and families of dead military pensioners who also receive pension support has deteriorated since 2008. Why? Because in 2008, their pensions were raised and they were in line with the legislation that now regulates this issue. So they were clearly tied to the payments, to the salaries of the military. After that, what happened in the country? The military did not increase the basic wage rates, but they paid only prizes, which I think is completely unreasonable. Because military bonuses, the Ministry of Internal Affairs can't be extremely large, they're not commercial structures. There are people who have to have stable earnings, and only in my opinion can 5-10 percent be positive. We've had negotiations with public organizations. And I can say that they were very unforgivable. What's the deal? We agreed on two things. First. We have to continue to make progress since 2008 and move on, because these pensions tend to remain, in 2008, as assigned, they still haven't moved in practical terms. What's the deal? July 1, 2012. Plus 10 percent for everyone. September 1, 2012. Plus 10 percent already increased. It's about the size. And on January 1, 2013, another 10.5 percent. Given that the rise is going to be percent, it's going to be 36 percent. 36! In doing so, we agreed that since January 1, 2013, we are significantly reducing the variable wage component for the military. So the premium fund is going to be reduced, and the base fund is going to be increased, over the years and so on. So the wage itself will increase in the military, and the variable part will be reduced in order for military pensioners to receive a satisfactory level of new pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u29	Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u31	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u32	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I'd like to address Mr. Azarov at the same time, Mr. Lavrinovich. Sadly, they are not there. I'm reading a document that Julia Volodymyrný Timoshenko received, which says that the video that's behind it is nowhere to be found or stored. And we're reading an interview with Azarov where he says, "Look at the records, and you'll see for yourself that she's walking, that she's moving." What I'm saying is that today the system of penitentiary abuse has gained such hypertrophy. You remember those two males who reported that they didn't beat Julia Timoshenko, they just wrapped her in sheets, and the bruises came out of the room. You remember when we were told that she could be in a cell without light because she was shaded in windows, just the windows she was in. I want to ask you a question: When will those who abuse will be held accountable?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u33	To whom will this question be answered? Another Jemelyanova, please. First Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u34	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. With regard to the responsibility of those working in the penitentiary service, you know that a proper service investigation has been carried out, that the Attorney General’s Office has also carried out an appropriate examination, which has been examined by a large number of witnesses, and not one dozen have given a witness. And none of the circumstances in the media have found their confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u35	Oleg Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Tihypco has just reported on how youth employment problems solve. How I can tell you how to solve this problem. You have, starting with the Prime Minister, almost half of the pensioner's government. Pensioners are from the state service, and young people are given the opportunity to work and earn a pension. That's what we have today: The president is a pensioner, the head of the government is a pensioner, Azarov. For pensioners. Four million pensioners in Ukraine receive less than a thousand dollars. Prime Minister Azarov receives a pension of 20,000 dollars a month, 45,000 dollars a month's salary. I ask the government: is it not the time when almost 2 billion dollars of debt on pay, when millions of Ukrainian citizens do not get paid on time, is it not the time for you to make a decision -- and stop paying salaries to government officials and pensions until the people who are ordinary Ukrainians get paid? The kind of moral right you get, screw that kind of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u37	Please, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u38	In essence, if you ask me, Mr. Oleg, I fully support you. As for those who work in government agencies, we have made the right decision with you, and we have clearly determined the time at which government officials can work. What I'm saying right now is that 3 million 600,000 pensioners actually have a pension below thousands of dollars. And unfortunately, today or, I think, fortunately, more than two million pensioners are working at the same time today and getting a pension. Because there's little income and they have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u39	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u40	As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u41	Allow me to answer when.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u42	With regard to specific questions, I can answer only that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u43	Jaroslav Jojik, please, instead of Yuri Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u44	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. It is well known that last fall the head of the Employment Service, Vladimir Galicki, was arrested by the Ukrainian Security Service. The extent of corruption in this department was simply a shock to the entire Ukrainian society, as seven and a half million dollars were found in this person’s safe. This fact clearly shows that the social protection system is effectively destroyed and converted into a system of budget dissipation. Let me remind all of us that the 2011 budget for this fund was seven and a half billion dollars. More than six months have passed since then. What has been done by today’s authority to reform the distribution of funds, or is the spoiling trough left behind?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u45	Please complete the question, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u46	Are the spoilers left behind, and only those who walk near this trough are changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u47	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u48	As far as the problems of this fund are concerned, I think they are serious enough problems. What's more, I can't say it's just here. We have recently dealt with the Accident Insurance Fund and, very briefly, we have been able to find money for the first time since 2002, to make improvements for 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, including, and for the first time since 2002, to raise the level of payments per year to the level of nominal wage growth of 17.6 percent. On the average, about 400 or 500 dollars has raised these payments. As for the unemployment fund. So what I'm saying is that the right manager was assigned and worked long time ago. There was a long enough check of the fund, and as a result, we have what we have. As for the fundamental changes that need to be changed. I think we need to change the structure of this fund. It's built on the fact that we have three sides: unions, employers and governments, 15 people on each side of the government. The government approves the budget. What have we now changed in law and in the Employment Act, which I partially reported to you? We suggest that this government only executes the budget and submits it for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers. And if the Cabinet of Ministers is going to do that, and this mechanism right now we have under the Pension Fund budget, I'm sure there'll be fewer problems. So far, we've quickly frozen all the cost of capital construction. All that money I've been telling you about, we find to support the young in the budget of this fund. And I told you that if a young person is hired for the first time, 100 percent of a single social contribution a year the employer won't pay, that's a tremendous incentive. The truth is that he must endure this man for another year. We provide benefits for entrepreneurs who have up to 50 employees. They won't pay any new job from the minimum wage the only social contribution. All this money is found in this fund's budget. It doesn't come from the state budget. These are just the first steps.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u49	Antonina Boloura, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Semierak Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u51	Ostap Semerak, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u52	Ostap Semerak, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, since the Prime Minister is absent, I would like to refer questions to the General of the Army of Ukraine, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Mr. Valeriy, signed yesterday by Julia Tymoshenko and the National Deputies, Sergio Vlasenka and Ostapa Semeraka were sent a letter of appeal to the FATF and the law enforcement authorities of some European countries asking to investigate the corrupt equipment carried out by BlackmoreNaftogaz in 2011 under the cover of the purchase of two platforms of self-contained drilling and four ships to serve them. [[International Anti-Criminal Money Laundering Organization]] Under cover of this equipment, 3 billion 200 million dollars were stolen from the government budget. To understand the size of this equipment, it's 4 million minimum pensions. This is the first reference.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u53	Please, Valery Ivanovich. Then complete the formulation of the question. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u54	Thank you. I'm done. That's the first call. There will be other references to other tools. Please give an assessment on behalf of the government. And tell me, please, when are all the anti-corruption bodies you've created going to work?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u55	Please, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u56	Questions. The microphone's working now. Thank you for asking. I mean, the government is not authorized to evaluate, the government can initiate or initiate an investigation into this issue. What I'm saying is, as far as installations are concerned, these oil installations, the oil wells, you know, these requests were made, including by the people's deputies to the various Ukrainian law enforcement agencies that took care of this issue. And to this day we have no answer as to the fact that there is a component of crime. Of course, the question of whether or not the sums have been overpaid can be dealt with solely in the legislative field, namely, by law enforcement investigations. If it's necessary to do another test of this. This issue, please, please let the Attorney General's Office's appeal will test this fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u57	Sergey Sass, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u59	Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u60	I have a question for Mr. Horoshkowski. The question is delicate, but it's Horacekowski's, because he didn't hear it. Among the highest officials, the Europeans are almost all defrauded by the lying conduct of our authority. However, there is an exception. There are two women from the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly – Marietta de Purbe-Lundis and Miles Reps, who have recently visited Ukraine, met with the President, met in prison with Lucenk and Timoshenko and made such soft optimistic conclusions, met with the President and concluded that the President had tried to convince them that there was a very positive dynamic in resolving these painful issues, according to the European Parliament resolution. I'm sure, Mr. Horoshkowski, these two women need to be protected, because they're the only ones who still believe -- vain women. How will you do that? How to protect them and encourage them to have at least two remaining ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u61	The question relates, in fact, to the question itself and to the assessments. Let me leave my grades on your side, and I'll try to give you an answer. What is a certain positive dynamic, I think you have the ability to make sure, because you are also involved in this dynamic. It refers to the changes in legislation that have been adopted, including through Parliament's actions. This is first of all a new KPC, you know. And also, if you look at the report of the European Commission that we have today in relation to our progress, there are enough positive, and there are enough critical evaluations. So I thought, no matter who's in opposition, and whoever's in power, our common goal with you is to create a positive image for our state in the world. And by the way, it's sometimes dosing seriously distinguishes our country among others. So I'm a patriot of our country with you, and I'd like to do everything you can to make sure that these problems are meant to be negative for Ukraine, to level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u62	Mikhail Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u63	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland, Reforms and Order. Sergey Leonidovich! Well, a lot of questions came to you today about the pension law. And it applied to what huge differences in pensions applied to those who retired at different times. Because they fall under different laws. Comrade Beaz reminded the police and the Armed Forces of Ukraine. But there are similar phenomena involving, for example, local self - government officials, such as the secretaries of the village councils, the heads of the village councils. And they, those who work in the same sector, do the same or do the same work, receive various pensions! As soon as possible, how quickly can we resolve this?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u64	Please, who will answer? Sergey Leonidovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. Mr. Michael, I completely understand what the problem is. It's a simple problem. When we talk about the assignment of a pension, we have everything built on an insurance principle. When a pension is granted, the first step is to take on the amount of the salary. What, though, about those in the same position who were of the same age and retired after 10 years? The salary goes up 16 to 17 percent nominally in bracelets, and the only time we're up-to-date in pensions is when prices go up. Prices are often much lower. The only way out is to make a difference. Now what we've done with pensions, from May 1st, we've updated from 2006 to 2007. But in order to equalize all pensions, we would need to have an upgrade today in 2011. And there's only one question. The question is to find the right money. How can we find this appropriate money? I think there's still plenty of reserves. Reserve number one. We have today the problem of tinting wages, tinting jobs. Especially in some areas are construction, maintenance. But it's not easy because at the same time we have a lot of pressure on the wage fund -- 41 percent on average. I think that after the election to the Supreme Council, we should have a calm discussion, three to four months in society, to discuss what to do. We prepared our proposals. If we make decisions like we see them, at the same time, we reduce the workload on business, and on the other hand we promote these measures that I've told you, new jobs, we're going to significantly increase the number of workers. Because there are many more today. Sadly, those who work in the shadows do not pay for social funds. I think there are other reserves, but that would be a quick start, and all the money would go straight to modernization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u66	Thank you. Stepanenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u67	Please pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u68	Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u69	Dear Sergey Leonidovic, the faction of the Party of the Regions has recently received hundreds of thanks from veterans for implementing the President's social initiatives. Thank you to the Government and the President. But on the other hand, there is concern that people are saying, and that the destructive, dirty, destructive work of the “BUT” and “Front Change” factions will prevent the Government from making these payments further. And whether this dirty destructive work of the opposition factions will prevent the Government from making these payments next year. Please respond to these concerns that we are strong enough and that the rate for social payments is constant and stable.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u70	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u71	Dear People's Deputies! I think the criticism of the opposition is hard, and the opposition is necessary. To ensure that we people who represent the Government are careful about what we are doing and that every step we take, especially in the social sphere, is well-convincing. What we have achieved since the beginning of the year is a significant increase in payments to persons with disabilities – more than 20 per cent, including persons with disabilities and internationalist soldiers. The fact that we have made a significant increase in payments to Chernobyl's people with disabilities is also a great fact. The fact that we supported all our pensioners today, I think it's very good and it's the implementation of the President's social initiatives. Our plans for next year are to continue at almost the same pace. But to do that, I said we need to keep going. And it is very important that the President's initiatives have been made, with less than a month of adoption by the majority in Parliament of the budget changes. After that, the Government can implement. So today we have a vertical power. That's very important. If this continues, I can say that in 2013 and 2014, and 2015 we can move at the same pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u72	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Please pass the word to Peter Cybenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u74	Peter Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u75	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council. Dear members of the government, first of all, I am absolutely convinced that today, by social standards, social policy should report to the Deputy Prime Minister who is responsible for the economy for filling the state budget of Ukraine. The other one. I'd like something to lower the victorious rhetoric that was going on today. Well, as an example, Sergey Leonidovich, you've told the truth that the disabled of the First Group's war received a double payment by Victory Day. That's true. But it's not true. Because the whole truth is that by law he would have to get 10 minimum pensions, and that's a slightly different number. And the main thing. When the government can fully fulfill its obligations to the disabled of the Great Homeland War, the youngest of them is now 85.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u76	Please, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u77	Mr. Zibenko, you know, there's no victory rhetoric. We are happy because we now have the opportunity to improve social standards. Because if we are already taking up military rhetoric, we have only retreated and improved the situation. Now we're on our way to poverty. Of course, that's extremely small, but what we have now is good. Thank God we started to change the trend. As for war veterans, war invalids, we have a program until 2015. Every year we will greatly increase their help, I guarantee you that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u78	Yes, thank you. Time's up. I thank the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for participating in the "hour of questions to the government." Honorable national MPs, in accordance with the Rules and Article 25, are given 30 minutes on Friday to make parliamentary inquiries. Obviously, it takes more than 30 minutes, since we have 207 questions. So I would like to support today's reading of all the questions, regardless of what's going to be more than 30 minutes, that's what it takes. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine for the release of the head of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, Alexander Lisickov, for numerous violations of human rights, the rule of law and security in the institutions for the execution of sentences, which have been vehemently beaten in the Kachanov Correctional Colony of the ex-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, during her incarceration to the hospital. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[11:09:52]] For-89 Request not supported. Sergey Vlasenka to the President of Ukraine on the infamous brutal beating, the infliction of bodily harm by officials of the Kachanov Colony No. 54, leader of the opposition to Yulia Timoshenko. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:10:23]] For 101 Request not supported. Sergey Vlasenka to the President of Ukraine for the immediate implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling of 15 March 2012 on the provision of treatment for the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, outside the prison service. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:10:59]] For 1052 Request not supported. Elina Shishkina to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of torture by the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region to Rafal Alexander and his unlawful condemnation as a result. Eugene Kzarow to Ukraine’s Commissioner for Human Rights, Ukraine’s Prime Minister, Ukraine’s Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy, Ukraine’s Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Ukraine’s Finance Minister for the violation of the rights of military personnel released from military service to secure a decent pension and a government decision to change the size or introduction for the designated categories of military officials of new monthly forms of financial security, since decisions on such changes were not made for the relevant categories of military officials by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 2008. Anatolia Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of the All-U.S. Diagnostic Center for the Treatment of TB and Sugar Diabetes on the basis of the Dolosy sanatorium. Arnold Radovtsa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the head of agricultural machinery companies to prevent the destruction of this sector of the economy of Ukraine. Valerija Baranov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for regulation at the legislative level of land trade procedures. [[auctions]] Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the execution of President of Ukraine's mandate to address the issues of socio-economic development in the region of Kirovograd. Basil Wooden to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to provide full funding for preschools, schools, hospitals and other institutions in the budgetary area of the Ternopil region in 2012. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the problems of the Kirovograd bourgeois complex. Vasil Kravchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the City Sugar Plant in the Hmelnicki district. Vassila Cherny to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the agricultural activities of agricultural enterprises, which are subject to a special taxation regime. Basil Black to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the construction of an underwater gas pipeline to the villages of Novojovitov and Jakimovka in the Orati district of Winnitsk. Vassila Wonderful to Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the construction of a unique museum-city in the village of Yavorov in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Victor Olijnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for setting minimum purchase prices for milk. Victor Sinchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-payment of grants of 4 million 800,000 dollars to the KAGMA private stock company of the Kagarlic district of Kiev for the milk paid to agricultural enterprises and the population in 2011. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the State Executive Service of Ukraine on the use of immediate measures aimed at directing 290,000 sums received from the implementation of the assets of the State Enterprise "Kyrovograd Repair Plant" to pay the employees of the company's salaries and on the immediate examination of the possible misconduct of officials of the Kirovograd State Executive Service Department of City Justice. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of residents of the villages of Glodosa, Verbivka and Maryanovka in the region of Kyrovograd and on the issue of the local community against the abolition of the Department of Emergency Health in a rural hospital, which would have a negative impact on the population and the violation of Ukrainian constitutional rights for adequate medical care. Vladimir Vizewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not forging the forgery of the city of Sosonovka of Lviv district by the lava of the State Open Shareholder Society "The Hope". Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the practical steps taken by the Government to restore production. the production of the collective plant "Seminal Brick Plant" in Chernigiv district. Dmitry Schlemka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the disposal of particularly dangerous wastes of hexachlorobenzene from the city of Kalush and the inefficient use of public funds by certain officials. Irina Barzéni to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the budget of the city of Harkov in 2012. Irina Bréžéni v Prime Minister of Ukraine on initiating consideration of raising the level of social benefits for mothers to reach three-year-old children to the minimum of living for children of appropriate age and ensuring a decent level of development of the child in line with the current economic and social needs of the young child. Catherine Vaszczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on regulating the placement of children living primarily in rural areas to out-of-town health and rest facilities at the expense of the state budget. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District Administration, Head of the Odessa District Council, South City Head of the Odessa Region for the non-privatization of the Odessa Portal Plant, for the protection of the national interests of the State, the inhabitants of the South and Odessa region, for warnings about environmental security and violations of the State monopoly. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the annulment of the decision of the First-Major City Council of the Luhansk Region to change the level of the Lower School No.36 by reducing its status. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the restructuring of the agrarian education centre. Leonidas Grač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to repay the debt owed to former employees of the Ukrainian Shareholder Company "Blood of Ukraine" "Lower-Hungarian Elevator" of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to strengthen government regulation in the field of hops through the mechanism of legislative support for the domestic producer of hop production. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the control and timely removal of the population from the emergency dwellings. Alexander Golub to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the illegal promotion by the City Council of Kiev of tariffs for heat and water supply. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of dissension in the possibility of travelling citizens of Ukraine to other states and representatives of those States to Ukraine. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to carry out a detailed analysis of pensions payments in accordance with the Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for addressing the consequences of the accident in the Chernobyl AES region of the Rhine region with regard to the strengthening of the legislative and implementing levels of social protection of liquidators 1 and 2 categories. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the introduction of a methodology for taking into account the characteristics of climate conditions when approving the unitary prices for natural gas used for the needs of the population. [[temperature factor]] Helen Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Žitomir District State Administration for preventing violations of the constitutional rights of children to secure education through the closure of the school in the village of Grishkovice in the region of Žitomir. Paul Mouchcan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the blocking of the draft concept of the State Target National Culture Programme for the promotion of domestic bookkeeping and reading for 2013-2017. Peter Simonenck to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of invalid residents of the Chernobyl AES accident, residents of the Makarov region of Lugansk region, regarding the payment of pensions. Sergei Gordijenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District Administration, Head of the Orgitsky District State Administration on the need for a reconstruction of the rural club in the village of Novi Irjetz of the Region of Poltavska, on the basis of the budget costs and questions raised in the referral of members of the local council on the cultural and spiritual development of residents of the village. Sergia Glazunova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the emergency status of thermal facilities and engineering networks at the University of Upper Provost. Jury Carmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the immediate use of measures to stop the diversion of the entire Ukrainian scale, to carry out humiliating experiments and abuse of the Ukrainian people by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Ukrazalznica, which are expressed in a baseless, deliberate distinction between a large part of the commercial trains, especially in the western, eastern and southern directions, for the purpose of separate authorities and for the replacement of the convenience of passengers for commercial convenience, for the modification of the night trains and the introduction of daily trains, which in turn make it very difficult to decide on the non-producerious movements, for the purpose of the various forms of these movements, for the purpose of alteration of the travel of the President of the State. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State Budget or the Reserve Fund of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the reconstruction of an emergency pedestrian bridge across the Gnyliy Tikic River in the town of Zvenigradka Cerkaske District. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District State Administration, Head of the Peacetown District State Administration on the need for the construction of a preschool facility in the village of the Great Soročinci of the Mirtava Region of Poltava and the immediate guarantee of children's rights to preschool education. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration, the Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Council for the Prevention of the Destruction of Garden and Cultural Monuments, the Central City Children's Park of Lazarus Globa, Dnipropetrovsk, as a result of unlawful actions by officials of the local authorities, the verification of the overriding of powers by officials of local authorities, the use of response measures and the involvement of those responsible. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the introduction of a transparent mechanism for setting the coefficients for calculating the monetary valuation of land. Paul Mouchcan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the Military and Music Centre of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The Group of Greenewetsks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the drafting of legal instruments for land by shareholders. Jury Crook to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, for the determination of the legal position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the transfer to the municipal property of the Ishmael City Council of the Bolgrad Road 29, the city of Ishmael Odessa. Jurya Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repair of sewage treatment facilities with the village of Lipkuwatka Novovodolaški district of Kharkiv district, the completion of the reconstruction of sewage collectors in the town of Herson, the alternative water supply of the town of Rudka Sambir district of Lviv district and the gasification of the village of Ludmilovka of the Bratsky district of Mikolayiv region. Vladimir Moysik and Yuri Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the immediate use of measures for the return to the municipal property of the Drogby Town Council, which entered into the statute fund of the joint Ukrainian-German company ISM, the value of $15 million unlawfully acquired by the German company Wind, the verification of the facts of service negligence in the resolution of the issue of Drobycian city head Alexia Radziewski and the drawing of the guilty to legal responsibility. Viacheslava Koval and Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, Head of the Kiev City Public Administration for Unsatisfactory State of Road and Transportation Infrastructure of the left-hand part of Kiev, and the need for construction of the transport highway of the Bajan Avenue on the Street of Collectorny. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the destructive activities of the Academy of Sciences, Peter Toločka, as the Heritage of Ukrainian Science and Culture. [[Culchinsky, Vizevski, Taran]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure of the President of Ukraine to carry out his mission to the Dnipropetrov region on 8 December 2011. [[Glazunova, Korja, Soloshenko]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on anti-Ukraine, non-professional activities of the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Mikhail Kulinjak, who inflicts a devastating impact on national culture, cynically plunders its acquisition, causes widespread social turmoil and damages the image of the Government of Ukraine. [[Matvienka, Potipchuka and others. Total 4 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Lugansk District Public Administration on the need for a comprehensive examination of the facts of the appeal of the All-Ukrainian Union of Regional Employers' Organisations of the Housing and Communal Sector "Federation of Employers of the Czech Republic" on the situation that has arisen in the service market for the maintenance of buildings and buildings and trailers in the city of Rubie Lugansk and the use of appropriate measures. [[Bondica, Bondarenko, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the non-admission of the reduction of the medical units of the central city hospital of Borislav Lvivsk. Alexia Fedun to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service of Ukraine, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime for the violation of the rules of law by the summer discotheque "Suund", located on the territory of the Yaltin Seaport in Alushta. Igor Alekseieva to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the restoration of the circulation of trains of Ovrók Korostin. Alexander Steshenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the unbalanced reduction of passenger trains that travel through the Svatov Lugansk Region Station. Vladimir Karpuk and Mikoli Potapczuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Director General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine, Head of the Volin District State Administration for the non-admission of a change in the timetable for trains No. 668 "Chernivci-Kovel" and No.360 "Livov-Kyiv" to the district centre and district centres of Volin region. Igora Ribakova to the Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the settlement of tariffs for payment services. Vladimir Zubanova to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the non-closure of bookstores in the city of Chernivci. Alexander Chernomorova to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the need to establish a competent commission from the central health department of the Ministry of Health to organize a review and objective evaluation of the professional activities of the chief physician of Kyiv City maternity home No. 1 Natalija Honcharuk. Mikoli Shershun to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the urgent need to provide medical transportation and equipment to the Balashov Clinic in the Bereznov region. Sergey Shevchuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the free distribution of medicines for children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Alexander Schepeleva to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, for the use of health care measures to provide medical facilities that provide assistance to victims as a result of the elimination of an accident at CHAES, drugs in sufficient quantities. Sergey Tereshuka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the acquisition of a bus to drive children with disabilities to the rehabilitation centre in Talne Cherkas region. Catherine Vaschuk to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the removal of artificial noticeable obstacles to payment by residents of Lutsk Volinsk region, participants in the Great Homeland War, disabled 1 group of Maria Kovalenko to her due compensation for the maintenance of the Fascist concentration camps in the years of World War II. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the fate of a unique collection of art that, through the debts of the Citybank Association of Shareholders, came to the National Bank of Ukraine, with many outstanding works by artists from abroad and Ukraine; the Committee on Culture and Spirituality found them in the vault of the Ukrainian Monetary Court a few years ago, and where they are now is unknown. Sergey Shevchuk to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for a potential threat to the Scottish National Park of the Volin Region. Victor Pavlenko to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the head of the Kiev Economic Court regarding the situation surrounding the delay in the consideration of the case of citizen Larissa Macviyczuk by the Ukrainian Master Court. Andrija Paruba to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine on providing information on planned measures to optimize the network of educational institutions in Ukraine in 2012-2013. Mikoli Derkac to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine for the selection of a school bus for the transport of students at the No.74 vocational and technical school in the district of Dnipropetrov. Valery Baranov to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the purpose of amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption on matters relating to public service and services in local self-government. Stepan Kupil to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for opening the Ugrin-Dolgobych customs crossing. Alexander Schepeleva to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of measures to address the environmental problem in the Ivano-Frankow region. Vasila Wondernova to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for the repair of the road of general use of Yablunov-Kosmach and work at the bridge crossing in the village of Kosmach in the region of Ivano-Frankowsk region, which is in emergency condition. Tarasa Steckowa to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Policy of Ukraine for taking steps to repay the debt of the Agrarian Fund of Ukraine to the State Shareholder Company "The Bread of Ukraine" "The Libyan Combine of Agricultural Products". Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the construction of apartment buildings on the street of Malinovski 72 in the town of Butch Kyiv district. [[Shustik, Zabarsky and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the address of the House of Veterans of the National Community of Theatre Actors of Ukraine, which has been in a difficult material state in recent years, the need for full financing of the socio-economic needs of the elderly medical masters of the stage and the non-admissibility of a significant part of the pensions of its residents, which has been imposed on housing, and the need for the full financing of the social and economic needs of the construction of its current medical services and the construction of the construction of the building of the site. [[Prutnik, Plitnikov and others]] Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying compliance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine and of taking appropriate measures of prosecutorial response in order to prevent the reorganization of the municipal enterprises of the book trade in the Cherniewec region and the protection of the rights and interests of the labour groups of the listed enterprises. Tarasa Steckova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Commission to the President of Ukraine for Civil Affairs, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the purpose of verifying the presence of dual citizenship in the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the rightfulness of granting him citizenship, the legality of his registration as a candidate and the national deputy of Ukraine for the 5th and 6th appeals. Orestes Muz to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the Prevention of the People's Credit affair in the Ternopil region and the pseudo-help for the construction of roads and the financing of the social sphere by the Galicina-Volin Foundation, as well as the abuse of office as deputy to the head of the Ternopil Authority of Jurij Želikhovsky and head of the Automobile Service of the company "Ternopilski oblovtodor" Mikola Gnatowski. Andrew School to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper response of the law enforcement authorities to the parliamentary appeal and complaint of a citizen named Maria Makarisin to a violation of property rights and misconduct. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures of procuratorial response to the facts regarding the non-payment of salaries to shareholders of the Vorzhbian Engineering Plant and the prosecution of violations of labour laws. Orestes Muz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Ternopil Region, Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Ternopil region for the commission of serious bodily harm to a member of the public association “Representation of Ternopolščina”, teacher of Oksani, Lisecsky Head of the District State Administration, Basil Savika, which led to the loss of work and deterioration of health status. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the requirement to take appropriate measures to prevent the raiding of a building on 34/1 Gruszewski Street in Kiev, where the oldest edition of the magazine "The Universe" is located in Ukraine. Andrew Skull to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the inappropriate reaction of the prosecutor’s office to the complaint of the well - known architect Igor Podolak in connection with the removal of the Gutsulian antiquities in Lviv. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of members of the family of the resident of Ternopil Galina Zivko. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures of prosecutorial response to the facts regarding the non-payment of salaries to members of the Centrolite stock company. Valerija Behwaz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of State Administration for the use of urgent measures of reaction regarding the failure of the court to execute a decision by officials of the Public Administration of matters, the inaction of officials of the Attorney General's Office and the State Executive Service, which resulted in gross violations of the constitutional rights of the citizen, Alexia Grigornka. Vladimir Leshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of law enforcement officers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea during the arrest and investigation of the resident of Simferopol Musa Aliyev. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Central Electoral Commission on the review of the complaint of a citizen of Svetlana Pobrzetz, representative of the village of Sofia Borszagivka Kyivo-Svetosin region on the illegal actions of the members of the Sofia-Borstagov Rural Election Commission on illegal abandonment and refusal of registration of applications for registration of candidates for the position of the Sofia-Borstagovian village head Tamari Davidenko, Vitalia Sturhecki and Svetlana Coasters in the early elections to be held on 27 May 2012. Valerija Beviz to the Attorney - General of Ukraine, head of the Justice Council, on the application of effective measures to resolve the issue of the immediate suspension of duties and the submission of an appropriate application for discharge from the office of Judge of the Tulkín District Court of Vladimir Lulka, who in his actions violates the high rank of judge, resulting in a grave violation of the constitutional rights of citizens. Eugene Goodyak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of current legislation on the payment of work by private shareholders of the Malin Research and Experimental Foundry, MDEZ, and the insufficient response of the prosecutor's authorities to the citizens' appeal. [[Malin City, Zitomir Region]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the State Executive Service of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of officials of the State Paradise Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the city of Kharkiv, Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kharkiv, State Service for Combating the Economic Crimes of the Kharkiv Region and the District Department of the State Executive Service of Kharkiv City Justice. [[Zabarsky, Kilinkarov and others]] Lesi Orobec to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the restoration of legality in the activities of the law enforcement officers of the Zvenigrad District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Cherkas region and officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Cherkas region, and on their responsibility under the current legislation. Eugene Chago to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the superficial review by the Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolai District of Deputies, the violation of the terms of reference and the failure to respond in essence to the complaint of a citizen named Alexi Lubinz. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the Cessation of Activities at the Kyiv City State Administration of the Group of the Raiders' Residence of the Association of Co-owners of Multi-Housing Houses of the Capital for the participation of members of illegally created and headed by the head of the Kiev City Government Administration, Alexander Popov "advisors" bodies, particularly at the participation of the former city head of the city of Horol Alexander Beznoska and former deputy of the City Council of the City of Lightwater, Oleg Matytian, as well as the participation of the Department of State Registration of the Right District in the city of Kyia of the State Administration and the municipal newspaper "Kristastic" in the control of the Kiev Union of the Houses of Multi-owners of the Houses of the Houses of the Peoples of the Houses of the Houses of the Houses. [[Sergei Gress, Valentina Makarov and others]] Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to conduct a criminal investigation into the rural head of the village of Zasul Lubensk, Sergio Bondarenko. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on signs of falsification of the judicial investigation by the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Ternopil region. Igor Jereshka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inaction of Ukrainian law enforcement authorities in the situation surrounding the South Town Market of the Odessa region. The Royal Natalia to the Attorney General of Ukraine for not allowing the investigation of a ten - year-old criminal case involving dozens of families from the city of Odessa to be delayed. The Royal Natalia to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to stop the pressure and prevent the legitimate professional activities of journalists of the Information Agency Your Time. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of environmental legislation by the deputy to the Berezan City Council of the Kyiv Region. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the oath of an official of the local government. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of responsibility for the corruption of the officials of the Pristina City Council of the Chernigiv region. Sergei Pavlenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the protection of the land and property rights of the rural community of the village of Czystorodek of the Vysgorod region of Kiev. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take measures aimed at halting corruption and disposing of the state budget by the official Igor Yakoubovic. Jury Odarchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the immediate cessation of the use of torture against Yulia Timoshenko, the investigation of her beating and the prosecution. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the commission of illegal acts and the violation of the requirements of legislation by prosecutors and the illegal seizure and search of the public reception of the Ukrainian National Deputy in Ishmael Odessa. [[Oak, Stishenko and others]] Eduard Prutnik and Valerija Bondik to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the High Council of Justice, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the Montenegrin Regional Public Administration, the Bahamas District Public Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the request of the pensioner Lydia Ignatenko for violations of land legislation and the use of appropriate measures to remedy such violations by authorized authorities. Viacheslav Koval and Alexander Cnervolenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the exercise of power over the action against the state, the leader of the Ukrainian opposition, the head of the "Fathership" party, Julius Timoshenko. Mikoli Kravchenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the legality of the actions of the senior officer authorized on the particularly important subjects of the Fifth Division of the Department for Combating Corruption and Organized Crime of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Donetsk Region of Major Dudčik. Alexander Scybinecki to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for providing information on the response of the Ukrainian Security Service to the illegal actions of a citizen of the Russian Federation during the Day of Victory in Odessa. Jury Odarchenka to the head of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine regarding the establishment of certain conditions related to the detention of Yulia Timoshenko and the cessation of torture and cruel treatment against her. Andrija Paruba to the head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the verification of corruption, financial misconduct and abuse of authority by officials of Burstin High School of Technical Engineering and Trade and Restaurant Business. Leonidas Grač to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the need to take urgent measures to repay debts for feeding schoolchildren in Simferopol of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vladimir Ariev to the head of the Kiev City State Administration to verify the legality of the destruction of green plants on Truhan’s island. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the situation of homeless animals in Kiev. Helen Bondarenko to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the lack of response and the failure to respond to parliamentary appeals by the head of the Berdichov district government, Volodymyr Zbarzski. Sergei Pavlenko to the head of Sevastopol’s city government regarding the gasification of Andriyuk’s villages and of the Sun’s Nahim district of Sevastopol. Sergia Soboljeva to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine regarding the failure to provide specific information on the extent of the debt owed by industrial consumers to Naftogaz Ukraine. So, honourable national MPs, once again, I remind you that 207 parliamentary requests have been made. A group of national MPs, more specifically, national deputies: Karmazin, Yavorowski, Kirilenko, made a request to give them time to speak in response to parliamentary requests. Unfortunately, we can't do that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, what I could do was not block last Friday's rostrum, then we'd put out a half-hour's parliamentary request and you'd all be speaking. Because we, the honourable colleagues, have been asking for more than 45 minutes. I would ask the secretariat for the next plenary week, and we'll expect to be able to speak to our colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the report of the Temporary Special Commission on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Dear colleagues, how would you feel about such an offer if we, for example, did not take a break and continue our work? No objections? Let's do this because we need to look at a number of questions. Thank you for your understanding. Dear colleagues, the offer is: for the Special Commission's report, since the report has been given to you, give it up to five minutes, will it not be enough? Well, let's do it in 10 minutes. If there's any questions, in five minutes. If we need to discuss it, we will propose that the factions speak and that is all. Since this is information, we do not need to discuss it. The word is given to the head of the Temporary Special Commission, Dutch Boris Davidovich. Please, Boris Davidovich, you have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u79	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, the Provisional Special Commission on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea held five meetings over the past period, studied and submitted nine bills, 270 amendments to existing laws and draft laws for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Commission's meeting considered bills drafted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, the Council of Ministers and the Centre for Legislative Initiatives of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea together with the members of the Commission. The main bills on which the Commission worked concerned the socio-economic development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the tax system, the state and functioning of the resort and tourist complex, the establishment of deported citizens, the improvement of the system of relations between the central authorities and local authorities for the financing of the social sphere and utilities. In view of the need to ensure the implementation of the draft law on the basis of the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the specificities of investment activities in its territory, drawn up at the request of the President of Ukraine on 12 August 2010 and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 February 2012 on first reading, the Commission proposed a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Investment Activities in the Territory of Autonomy for consideration by Parliament. In order to bring certain legislations of Ukraine into line with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Commission was discussed and proposed, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the interaction of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea with ministries and other central executive bodies. In view of the importance of ensuring an enabling environment for the intensive development of the tourism industry in Crimea, the Commission approved and forwarded bills to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code on the streamlining of tourism and tourism taxes, improving accessibility and competitiveness of internal and entry tourism. As well as tourist collection systems for individuals, owners or tenants of individual accommodation facilities. The Commission has considered a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation establishing liability for the provision of temporary accommodation services, initiating the issue of facilitation of entry into the territory of tourists residing in the territory of the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Estonia, with the status of stateless persons. The Ukrainian People's Deputies, members of the Temporary Special Commission, have made proposals to draft bills that have been prepared for the second reading, inter alia: on the basis of the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the specificities of investment activities in its territory, on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on the State Budget for 2012, on the State Service, on the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the field of ecology and natural resources, with the issuance of permits, on the use and protection of land, on State control and public procurement, and on many other issues. Special attention is paid to adaptation, integration into Ukrainian society of deported Crimean Tatars, Greeks, Armenians, Bulgarians and Germans who have returned to Ukraine. The issue of repatriation, social and engineering infrastructure remains extremely relevant. To date, 8,000 families of this category of citizens of our country do not have their own housing. Due to the lack of funding from the State budget, 16,000 individual builders cannot complete the construction. Some 300 compact repatriots have only 87 per cent electricity supply, 65 per cent by water. There are virtually no hard-cover roads, water pipes and sewers in these settlements. Following the request of our commission by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Department for the Protection of the Rights of Deportees on a national basis returned to Ukraine. In 2011, an allocation of 10.5 million dollars was made from the Ministry of Culture's fund to the Ministry of Social Policy, which had been used as an assignment. To date, proposals for the improvement of existing legislation, the Council of Ministers and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea continue to be submitted to the Commission, and the internal register of the bill registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the development of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is constantly being updated. Crimean autonomy cannot solve the global issues it faces, such as improving the competitiveness of the Crimean resort, the construction of deported persons, the specificity of the ethnic composition of the Crimean Peninsula, the existence of a base of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. This is certainly not a complete list of problems in the Crimea, but they have an impact on the socio-economic state of the region and the political situation in it, and therefore require solutions at the State level. However, measures taken by the State are often aimed at addressing urgent problems and are not systemic, but sometimes punctual. To avoid being loud, I'll give you a little example. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has allocated considerable funds for the rehabilitation of the Yalta and Alushta coastlines, destroyed by the worst storms of winter. Such haste should have enabled the South Bank to prepare for the resort season in a timely manner, but there is still no money. However, I would like to point out the following. If anti-polar and coastal activities had been funded and implemented in a timely manner, as previously envisaged by State programmes, there might have been no destruction and there would have been no need to deal with these issues in an abject and cost-effective manner. A similar example relates to the use of the North Crimean Canal. Funding for its exploitation is shrinking sharply, which means not only is irrigation land shrinking, but the problem of drinking water in Crimea remains unresolved. I would like to draw your attention, colleagues, to the fact that our commission was created not to collect statistics, but to effectively improve the legislative framework that affects the situation in the Crimea. All members of the Commission, regardless of party affiliation, are fully familiar with the problems of the Crimea and are prepared to work towards their resolution, so I strongly ask you to support the proposals made by our Commission. I am sure that everyone in this room is interested in a stable and prosperous Crimea as well as the Crimean are interested in the well-being of each region of Ukraine, which in turn will only be possible if authority is expanded on the ground. It was at this address at the meeting of the Council of the Regions in Yalta that President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, emphasized that territorial communities, in accordance with the Constitution, were potentially entitled but could not exercise them in life. So it depends on all of us in this room how quickly we can change the situation for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u80	Thank you, Boris Davidovich. I think we're clear. Let's move on to the decision. Questions? Please, three minutes to ask. Yes, please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u81	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Vasil Alekseiovich Kiselov. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u82	There will be no performances. I repeat, there will be no speeches. By order of the hearing, if you have any suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u83	Then the question to the reporter. In fact, Crimea loses much of its value for resorting prices in Crimea, much higher than, say, in the same Antalya. This year alone, Turkey expects more than 700,000 tourists from Ukraine. It's also evidence that the politics of sanatorium treatment, in terms of price policy in Crimea, is thoughtless, vague, and that's why we're losing a lot of money. I've actually heard a lot of suggestions from you, but I also need to see at the legislative level that, in fact, rest in the Crimea is available not only to Ukrainians but also to Russians and to citizens of other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u84	I didn't get the question!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u85	Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u86	Boris Dawdovich, don't be surprised that you won't have any questions, only wishes and words "thank you," because we haven't heard such a profoundly reasoned report in this session room in a long time. So I want to thank you for this report. You know, it's complex. And you're right. Your commission came up with a solution to Crimea's problems. She's not just a healer. It's not just Yalta. Crimea is an agro-industrial complex, once powerful, powerful, that could work much better with normal state support and some more stable political situation in our country, so I thank you very much for your speech and for the commission. And I want to ask you what your point of view is about the adoption of the law on deported peoples.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u87	Today, mourning events are taking place in Crimea in all cities and settlements. I wouldn't want to go back to that, Jaroslav. Roger that. And start building up that question today. He's not needed at all today. And to answer the prices of Antalya. That is how we call on you: to do much in our country for the development of tourism and the creation of conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u88	Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u89	Boris Dawdovich, well, I have a question. The problem of deporting peoples was raised in their statement. Tell me, please, you fly to Simferopol and go to UBK, along the road, huge squares are built by two-by-two houses — a terrible picture! What's to be done? Your opinion. It's not like we can leave forever!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u90	No, but we need to address the issue of construction faster, more specifically, and self-absorbing to prohibit, not encourage, but at the same time, land allocation needs to be more accurate and faster. So we've been doing this for 20 years -- we're not going to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u91	Thank you. Have a seat, please. No, I'm sorry, there's not two minutes. I repeat: there are no two minutes. Please make a decision. We are considering the draft Resolution on the report of the Temporary Special Commission. I propose in this order that the first paragraph be left, "Report of the Interim Special Commission on the Autonomous Republic of the Republic on the work done be taken to the fore." The second and the third paragraphs are taken away, they have nothing to do with us, because by the determination that we created the TSC, it was created before the cadence was completed, it has nothing to do with continuing it, it was created by that determination. The fourth paragraph is to make the second point: "The Cabinet of Ministers recommends amendments to the State Budget Act on Subsidies to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea." Three: "Publish a report in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine." And the fourth is, "This decision has been made since the day of its adoption." Who's to accept it as a basis, please vote. [[12:04:38]] For 249 I'll take that as a base. What will be the suggestions? Please, Kiselov. Kiselova has a note. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, first of all, I propose to take this decision in general with the exception of paragraph three, and I pay attention to paragraph three. In addition, I would like to say a few words, honourable colleagues, the Crimea is a unique region for economic reform, including in the resort area and the agro-industrial complex. For many years, after working in an agro-industrial complex and knowing that one bracelet of produce produced in the APC provides seven bracelets of produce in other industries, I suggest that, dear colleagues, 2013 announce the year of the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine. That's what I support, including the Deputy of the Dry One. Moreover, respectable colleagues, well, Ukraine has endured the 2012 football year, and the APC will endure. In addition, I find it painful to see the village councils on top of the team today decide to dismantle and deposit in the metal pipes, props and equipment of the pumping irrigation stations of the North Crimea Canal, what Boris Davidovich said. And on my parliamentary motions, there are formal receipts. Hundreds of millions of looting takes place, instead of restoring irrigated lands and turning Crimea, to restore the glory of Crimea to the region of gardens and vineyards. I really hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u93	Thank you. Well, I already told you. We took the third paragraph of this decree away, so it is not there, because it has no bearing on our report. There is thus an offer to make a general decision. I put to the vote a decree on the report of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of the Autonomous Republic of Crime in the version that I said was the first paragraph. The second, the third, we take away, the fourth becomes a second, and so on. [[Registration number 10321]] Please vote. [[12:06:58]] For 263 Thank you. It's an order. We are now moving on to the issue of the 2011 Implementation Report of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget. Such regulations are proposed. That we were able to deal with this issue for about an hour. First Deputy Merkovsky's report - up to 10 minutes; 5 minutes - answers to questions; Lukyanov's report - 5 minutes; 3 minutes - answers to questions; the report by the head of the Court of Auditors - 5 minutes and 3 minutes and about 30 minutes - discussions. I invite you to the report of the first Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! A report on the 2011 budget has been prepared by the government and according to the Budget Code. And I would like to highlight some of the challenges and what the government achieved last year in the budget area. The 2011 budget was focused on the tasks identified by the President’s economic reform programme, namely, the establishment of a stable system of government finance management, the provision of sustained economic growth, which is guaranteed by the State to fulfil its social obligations. Despite the slowdown in the global economy from 5.2 percent in 2010 to 3.8 percent in 2011, Ukraine’s economic growth has accelerated. According to last year, real GDP increased by 5.2 percent, exceeding both official forecasts and forecasts of international organizations, including IMF and the World Bank. The nominal GDP accounted for 1316.6 billion dollars, 25.6 billion dollars higher than the 2011 budget or 21.6 percent. Positive trends have also been observed in industry – an increase of 7.6 per cent, in agriculture – 17.5 per cent increase, in construction – 11 per cent. The consumer price index has reached the lowest level since 2002 – 4.6 percent, i.e. twice the forecast for the past period. The Ukrainian Tax Code, which entered into force since 2011, has contributed to the acceleration of economic development, including on an investment-innovation basis. The main incentives for tax reform were the reduction in taxes and collection from 43 to 23: the reduction in income tax rates in 2011 to 20 per cent and further down to 16 per cent; the introduction of automatic VAT compensation; the introduction for small business for 5 years of tax vacations in the form of a zero income tax; the introduction of tax rates for individual sectors of the economy, such as agriculture, coal mining, aviation, space industry, engineering, the APC, light industry and others; the introduction of accelerated depreciation; and the improvement of a simplified taxation system. Budget reform continued in 2011. The legal and regulatory framework of the budgetary process has been improved, the basic principles of government debt management and guaranteed debt have been improved. The financial self-sufficiency of local budgets has been increased, and the number of budget programmes has been optimized. The timely and successful fiscal and tax reforms ensured stable public treasury fillings. Overcoming planned arrivals, as well as accelerated economic growth, enabled the planned revenue growth to increase by 22.4 billion dollars in 2011, expenditure by 20.8 billion dollars, and the deficit by 3 billion dollars, from 3.1 percent of GDP planned last year to 2.7 percent of GDP. The additional budget resource was aimed at increasing social payments to the population and financing the urgent needs of individual sectors of the economy and regions. According to the 2011 report, the income figure rose to nearly a quarter as compared to 2010 and was 314.6 billion dollars. Last year’s overcoming of projected incomes amounted to 8.5 billion dollars. The general budget of the State budget was $265.8 billion and the increase against the 2010 figures was 28.1 percent. Last year, too, there was a strong belief in basic fiscal taxes. In particular, at the value added tax – 1.5 times, at the income tax of companies against the plan – plus 37 percent, plus 20 percent excise tax and 1.8 times rent. In 1.8 times, VAT compensation has been increased by money to 42.8 billion dollars. Entered into automatic VAT compensation last year. At the expense of this mechanism, 15.9 billion dollars were recovered. Sufficient revenue in the state budget during 2011 increased both social and investment costs. There was a balanced spending policy. In particular, administrative reform has been initiated. Short-term expenditure on the maintenance of public authorities, restrictions on non-priority expenditure. Over the past year, government budget cash expenditures increased by 9.8 percent to 333.5 billion dollars. At the same time, the general government budget is 20.5 percent up to $287.3 billion. The resources of the State budget focused primarily on financing the main protected budget articles. Thus, the social cost of the state budget has increased by 16 billion dollars, to 228.5 billion dollars. Last year, basic social standards were raised. The minimum wage of almost 9 percent is less than 2 percent in most countries of the European Union. The EU’s staff salary for the first tariff level was increased by 11.6 percent last year. Medium-term minimum pension size of 8.1 percent. Inter-qualificational wage ratios for workers in the first and seventh tariff levels are ensured. Additional benefits of material assistance and other payments were also introduced for educational, cultural, and health workers in the social sphere. Last year the government fully implemented all social standards and timely wages and pensions. In addition, the trend towards social and investment spending has been restored. Last year’s capital expenditure rose by 48.6 percent, to 31.3 billion dollars. And in the cost structure, their drinking weight increased by 2.4 percent to 9.4 percent. At the expense of these funds, the new year ensured the construction of energy, coal and peat-based enterprises, financial support for agribusiness operators through the loan and lysing payment arrangement; the construction and development of a metro network; the construction of dozens of modern schools and hospitals; and the construction of a highway through the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye; the railway and motorway bridge crossing and the Podolska Bridge Passage in Kiev. As well as building and repairing social facilities, housing, heating systems, water supply networks, street lighting, sewerage, cleaning facilities, and so forth. Government measures and incentives for economic development, major structural reforms have led to the task of economic growth, wage increases, pensions and social assistance to the population, the return of investment policy. This ensured a substantial reduction in the budget deficit and reduced the level of government debt relative to GDP. And you can see that on the slide. Yes, in 2011, the projected deficit rate fell to 2.7 percent of GDP against the deficit, which was 5.9 in 2010. This deficit was the lowest of most developed countries in the world. Payment and service of government debt in 2011 was carried out in a timely manner. Debt repayments amounted to 45.6 billion dollars, serving 23.1 billion dollars. Government borrowings last year amounted to 80.7 billion dollars, of which 8.9 were funds earmarked for the capitalisation of banking institutions, 12.5 for the statute fund Naftogazu Ukraine and 5 billion for the credit of the agrarian fund. Almost half of the budget deficit in 2011 was funded by non-debt sources. As a result of the privatization of government property, $11.5 billion was paid, 14.8 percent more than planned. The ratio of government debt has been reduced. In 2010, government debt fell by 2 percentage points, to 27.1 percent. State and state-guaranteed debt fell by 4 percentage points, to 35.9 percent. High budget implementation rates in 2011 have provided a solid basis for the establishment and implementation of the 2012 budget and for the further development of a transparent and efficient public finance system capable of ensuring macroeconomic stability and economic growth in order to improve the level of well-being. This report was considered at the Committee on Budget Issues and the relevant decision is the committee and the draft regulation. The government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u95	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u96	is proposed to support this decision of the Budget Committee and the draft Decision and to adopt it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u97	Please sign up for the question. Yeah, five minutes, please, Hotchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u99	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, you have indeed given an objective picture of the implementation of the budget last year. And it is important to pay tribute to the work of the Government in particular to the Ministry of Finance, which, in a complex, I would say, has been able to implement the budget in the global economic crisis, to pay pensions and salaries in a timely manner, to reduce the budget deficit to 2.7 when the European standard is 2.5. And we remember that it was almost 15 in 2009. This is to reduce almost five times the European standard. For 2 years, the bracelet is practically frozen — 8. That is to say, the Government's budget policy course has been chosen correctly. I wanted this course to be extended this year. I have one question. If, by this year, if we fail to borrow IMF credit, will we also be able to bring the IMF budget down well this year without a loan?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u100	Thank you. Well, you know, we didn't have an IMF loan last year, and thanks to a balanced debt policy, the government's balanced deficit policy managed to meet the standard, as you said, regarding deficits and achieving a reduction in GDP debt. So this is the right result, and that's why we were able to ensure the stability of our currency, because the financing of the budget was made, not by the emission costs, but by the costs that came from the payment of taxes and from the congregations. And today, for 2012, we are also going to a defined, accepted course that relates to a very rational borrowing policy. And I think that, given the refinement of the budget that took place in April, the government will be able to ensure full compliance with its domestic obligations to Ukrainian citizens as well as the service of government debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u101	Arzhevtine Stanislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u102	Anatoly Ivanovich, you know exactly that government finances cannot exist without the credit finances of the banking system. Obviously, you know the good results of the banking system last year, and you know the figures that today the banking system has invested 802 billion in the economy, at a time when the amount of financial resources in the general government budget is 400 billion, that is, 2 times more. You know that the banking system last year, in spite of a difficult crisis year, 70 billion additionally gave credit to the economy of Ukraine, it's those who will pay taxes to the budget that have contributed an additional 75 billion deposits. You know what the multibillion dollar sums are listed in the government's securities to cover the budget deficit. So I have a question for you. Could you welcome the banking system with a professional holiday, which will be 2 days from May to May 20, taking into account such good results?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u103	Thank you for asking. To be honest, I wasn't expecting that kind of question. But I'm very glad that, in fact, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank have a common understanding of government borrowing. You know, we've activated this sector. We're doing optimally, in our view, a system of budget financing. And I would like, given that we have an understanding in this complex area, to welcome all the employees of the banking sector with their professional holiday and to wish they had more money and they could invest it not only in the state's securities but also in the real economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u104	Yes, Kanushtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u105	Thank you. Well, I'd like to see, of course, the minister's rostrum, because, in general, who we chose at the time, is some phantom, an invisible. We've never seen him before, we don't even know what his voice sounds like. Well, God be with him. Rabbit doesn't play hockey. Two questions. First. When will we finally see in the report the results of the midterm planning? I mean, I'm interested. A lot of money is spent on capital objects. Their willingness, how many transitions, how much money is spent when it's done? I mean, if this isn't about normal medium-term planning and budgeting for these programs, at least on capital, I want to see these things. Well, the second question is, well, absolutely no state of the local budgets. And I can see that 300 million on the last day.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u106	Answer me. You should have made less introductions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u107	Thank you. You know, we're going through a continuous improvement in budgetary legislation. And the government, the Ministry of Finance, together with the Budget Committee and last year, have made changes, improved standards of budgetary legislation. And already this year, in January, we adopted changes to the Budget Code, which every time we improve the normative management of budgetary resources, as well as reporting and declaring the goals we have achieved. And you know that for the first time in the 2011 report, we've included in the package reports by the chief executives on their achievement of the goals and tasks defined by them. For the budgeted costs. Of course, for the first time in this year, we have also introduced a medium-term budget forecast, it is approved by the government's decree, and this is the first step towards those requirements of European legislation in order to estimate the forecast for the next three years. I think it's after the party or along with the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we can talk, but then we won't talk in the "Virgin." If you want, please, let's change into each other. The report of Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović, the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear national deputies, members of the government and invited! In accordance with Parliament's mandate as defined in article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 62 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the Supreme Council should consider and decide on the Report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the 2011 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. The Budget Committee at its meeting on 10 April, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, reviewed this report at the conclusion of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the State Budget for 2011. It should be noted that the implementation of the State Budget Act 2011 was carried out in the context of the implementation of the Tax Code and the new edition of the Budget Code. Among the positive steps taken in 2011 to implement the budget, the Committee notes: firstly, despite a number of negative trends in the world economy, the projected macroeconomic indicators of social and economic development were achieved when the State budget was approved for 2011; secondly, the government budget's income plan and the privatisation of state property, which amounts to 103.5 per cent and 114.8 per cent, respectively; thirdly, the reporting year saw a decrease in the ratio of government and guaranteed debt to government deficit to GDP. For example, in 2010, government debt accounted for almost 30 percent of GDP, accounting for 27.1 percent in 2011. Fourthly, the cost of the State budget is protected, most of which are social expenditure spent in full. It should also be noted that according to article 61 of the Budget Code, the annual report for the first time contains information on the achievement by the main managers of the planned objective, tasks and performance indicators of the budget programmes, and reports on all approved State Budget figures on the form of supplements to the law. The above testifies to increased budget transparency and is a positive step in the context of deepening the application of the targeted method in the budget process. At the same time, there are a number of issues that have accumulated in recent years and require systemic adjustment. In particular, as has already been pointed out in the questions, this is the situation with local budgets. The updating of the fiscal and tax base did not allow local budgets in 2011 to overcome negative fiscal trends in territorial communities, and hence to increase their autonomy and self-sufficiency in full. Local self - government budgets continue to ensure that wages and energy supplies are usually paid. Their protected expenses amounted to over 90 percent, and in education and health care, they reached almost 96 percent, and we understand that this situation needs to be corrected. The main priority remains to maintain the socio-cultural sphere, on the other hand, the well-being, transport, housing fund, utilities, 160 local budgets, and this is almost a quarter of those with relations with the state budget, did not make the income of the first basket that was to be directed towards delegated needs. Under these conditions, the local budgets over the year have received 194 medium - term loans, which will not contribute to the stability of local budgets in the future. The path of addressing the current budgetary problems is defined in the draft draft budget committee prepared to implement Ukraine's 2011 State Budget Act, which is registered at number 10160-d and distributed to you. This draft decree is proposed to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u110	Thank you. The draft decree will read, everyone can read. Sign up for questions. Yes, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u111	Vladislav Valentinovich, you probably know that despite the crisis, last year more than 15 billion people were taxed by the banking system. You were the deputy on our banking committee, you know the problems of the banking system. Could you also welcome bankers, your colleagues, the National Bank teams, groups of various commercial banks with a professional holiday to celebrate on May 20?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u112	My colleague, I join you in welcoming you, and I really want to welcome all the employees of the banking system, the leadership of the National Bank, the fact that we really see positive changes in the work of the banking system going on, welcome them with these achievements, and wish that their arrivals, as well as the coming of the state budget, were increasing, not only during 2012 but for years to come. Thank you, and I welcome all the workers to this holiday.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u113	Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u114	Please pass the word to a colleague of Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u115	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u116	Dear Vladislav Valentinovich, there has been such a tradition of budget implementation in Ukraine that at the end of the year, at many capital costs, the principals of the funds are carrying out these expenses. Yes, according to the 2011 results, 86.4 billion dollars were spent in October and December. If you use individual ministries and offices, almost a third of the funds are spent in December. The Ministry of Health has carried out such expenditure on extremely important drugs programmes to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, oncologic diseases at 28.6 at the end of the year, in December. It's the same in the Academy of Sciences. Of course, such a rush in the purchase and execution of such expenses leads to numerous violations, as pointed out. When and how long it will take to remedy this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u117	Mr. Volodymyr, thank you for a very relevant and important question. What's more, I want to get a better answer to your question, because it's not just about the principals of the funds, but it's even more acute for the local budgets. Moreover, we see that the financing of capital expenditure in the second half of the budget year and in the third and fourth quarters, they influence the fact that very much of the liabilities of the directors, both at the central level and at the local budget, are transferred to the contractors on subscription. And this certainly does not contribute to this situation. But in answer to your question, I want to say that we have considered this issue in a number of working groups on the budget committee. These groups were held with both the head and the head of the budget committee. And we've made proposals for changes to legislation for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. A report from the head of the Accounts Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u119	There are many questions, but there is no time. A report by the head of the Auditorium of Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich Please, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the current legislation, the College of Accounts approved the findings on the implementation of the 2011 State Budget. They're given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a fixed term and given to each of you. Given the limited time, I will only address the most important problems of the implementation of the state budget in the past year, the solutions to which are relevant and in the current year. The 2011 State Budget was implemented in a condition of economic growth, which, along with the acquisition of the Tax and New Budget Codes, contributed to a substantial increase in the income of its general fund. However, there has been a deviation of the actual revenues of the special fund from the plan, i.e. the Supreme Council's decree on the implementation of the State Budget 2010 Act has not been implemented in the part where it was necessary to improve the methodology for the planning of individual types of incomes of the special State Budget Fund, which have either a low level of implementation each year, or far exceeds the planned indicators. The implementation of the State budget was carried out under almost a third of the planned government loans, both external and internal. This has become one of the main causes of general fund expenditure less than planned and individual payments from debt repayment for 2012. As in previous years, no timely approval has been made of the list of public purchasers, the volume and composition of the government contract provided for in the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement and Meeting of Priority State Needs. In 2010, this list was approved only in December. There have been positive developments in the past year, but the approval took place only in June. Growing both a sovereign and a guaranteed debt should be carried out with sufficient balance not to result in negative consequences. Yes, in 2011, government guaranteed debt increased by more than 40 billion dollars or 9.5 percent. Over the past three years, debt has increased by two and a half times. Nearly 1 in 6 of the government’s budget is spent on public debt repayment and servicing. Over the course of three years, the expenditure recorded increased sevenfold. Although the ratio of government debt to gross domestic product in 2011 was 36 percent, 4 percent less than in 2010, debt growth nearly doubled the rate of real gross domestic product growth. The amount of external debt in the total amount of government and government debt guaranteed was 63 percent. In order to prevent risks, the Accounting Chamber recommended that the government develop and approve a medium-term debt policy strategy with the definition of marginal debt parameters and criteria for the efficiency of the use of borrowed funds. In addition, the State Debt Act was proposed as soon as possible to implement the system of government management. In June 2011, the revised project was submitted to the Supreme Council. I would also like to draw attention to this increase in local debt. By the end of 2011, they had exceeded 11 billion dollars. But once again, you need a law on public debt to determine the principles of their regulation. The problems of local budgets, the introduction of new fiscal and tax legislation, and a significant increase in their own and well-established incomes were also topical. Last year, for the first time, more than half of the local budget revenues were generated by inter-budget transfers and government budgets. This indicates an increase in the centralization of budgetary resources, a decrease in the level of budgetary autonomy of local authorities and local governments. I hope that the materials of the Chambers of Auditors will be taken into account upon introduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Three minutes. Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u122	Well, please tell me. Your job today was to say the flaws of last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u123	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u124	You couldn't say anything. They just said two laws should be passed. Tell me, is there a flaw or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u125	The shortcomings are, of course, as stated in previous reports. But the purpose of the Court of Auditors is to identify the flaws. We found out about the report. You have specific, more detailed ones. I didn't want to stop at specific questions, you have them. The tasks of the Court of Auditors, in addition to identifying shortcomings, are also to make suggestions that these shortcomings will not be allowed in the next period.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u126	Yes, please, Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u127	Dear Mr. Head! I agree with the previous deputy who approached you and asked you about your shortcomings because you really didn't say anything. Although in your report, if you just open it, we see a lot of flaws from the beginning. Well, the first flaw is that the actual and actual data don't match what was planned. This is an obvious flaw in the planning of special understatements so that they can be reintroduced. It's wrong from any point of view. The second question. If you look at all the macros, it's not clear where any growth is coming from. And from my point of view, they weren't. Because if you look at the growth rate of 5 percent and the producer prices of 14 percent. And if you look at the fact that exports are virtually not growing and imports are increasing very quickly. So the question is, where do we get the budget from?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u128	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u129	The report of the Court of Auditors makes it clear that the government budget’s revenues of 314.6 billion dollars, the government’s budget, amounted to 33.5 billion dollars from the plan. I mean, the main thing is the economy of expenditure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u130	Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u131	Dear Romane Mikolaiovich, I will continue with my colleagues' opinion, because we are used to a really qualified report from the Accounting Chamber on the implementation of the budget. Where there is much analysis, qualified analysis, clear observations and recommendations, and shortcomings. And this report is different from the previous reports, regardless of which government was in power. That is why, perhaps not a question, but a wish for you, for I see that you did not sign this report, but you signed the responsibilities of Yaremenko. But you have to have professionalism, you have to have really clear comments and clear suggestions. Because there are more declarations here, there are more positive changes that people don't see, and there are really few proposals that would improve this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u132	Thank you. Your remarks will be accepted by me as the head of the Accounting Chamber in the next. A more date for the report will be required. And I think my next speech is going to be more solid, with numbers, with specific businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u133	Thank you. Thank you. I can give him 10 minutes at your expense. May I? Give him 10 minutes and we'll finish this session. Please have a seat, Roman Mikolaiovich. Thank you. People just got here, so it's gonna be okay. Yes, please sign up for factions. Yes, please, from the deputies. Please, Blackwolf. Get ready, Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u134	Alexander Blackwolf, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear friends, indeed, you, if you look at the report of the Court of Auditors, will see for yourself that the head of the Court of Auditors did not need to pay any attention to any shortcomings. They're written in that report, and on the very first page, which you can't hide, you can't change. These are the main macro-indicators compared to 2010, actual execution and what was planned. Once again, I want to point out that we have a special Ministry of Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers are developing and adopting a pessimistic scenario, with other options, so that we can then remake all of this into money that we can use manually from retraining. The other one. If there are members of the budget committee here, they will know that the permanent budget committee of each meeting, dozens of redistributions of budgetary assignments. That is, what was planned at the beginning of the year is constantly being converted over the course of the year, and it is constantly changing. Third. We can say that, in fact, money is being scattered all the time and that, by the way, there is also a decision by the Committee on Budgets that does not have a majority, but by the way, the Party of Regions, by the way, that there is a constant concentration of money for small purposes. If this year and last year it was, it was linked to elections and majority districts, where someone from the Party of Regions could tear down a penny. This applies to any region of Ukraine. Next. If we look at the macro-indicators last year, we'll see that while there's an increase, it's kind of a rise, although it's virtually no gross national product, the producer price index is going up a lot more. So the question is, what's the reason for this increase, whether it's the price rise or the actual increase in the quantity of goods and services produced. Obviously, it's because of the price increase. Next. If we take and look at the deficit of the balance of payments and the deficit of the external trade, we will also see an extremely sharp increase. In fact, in these years, while the Party of Regions was in power, exports of Ukrainian products, and the Ukrainian economy was export-oriented, it did not grow, and imports grew very sharply instead. And we can see growth actually double the deficit, so trade balance. And finally, we can say that this reduces the standard of living, because it's only in Ukraine that low redistribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u135	Thank you. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. He's been followed by Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u136	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! We have normally heard an extremely optimistic report from the government, but the faction of the UK Company does not share such optimism and claims from the outset that it will not vote in favour of the 2011 State Budget Implementation Report. The income and expenditure portions of the budget were carried out with the tears and woes of our people and a great advance on their social rights. A few examples, and I highlight where the money was saved. Increase in retirement age. In 2011, a large part of our citizens were unable to retire, and the cost was saved. Significant costs have also been saved by the fact that in fact social benefits have been eliminated for many categories of our citizens — children of war, Chernobyl, and others. You know what kind of social upheaval. So it was under the walls of the Supreme Council. Despite the numerous insistence of the Company of Ukraine, budgets such as 2010, 2011 did not provide for any expenditure on lost savings. And I emphasize that we've initiated many times the question of the inclusion of payments to the heirs of the dead investors, but there was a firm refusal, and it's not done and there's now more than 500 million debt. I would like to draw attention to an extremely shameful phenomenon that exists. There's an unspoken team of executives today who don't write prescriptions to disabled people in local hospitals, and they suffer people who can't actually live without those drugs, because those drugs are their lives. And the vast majority of these people refer to the category of socially vulnerable. And our proposal, Anatoly Ivanovich, is that you listen carefully to the head of the budget committee, that the issue is taking on a dangerous scale, and you should probably make changes to the current legislation and anticipate subsidies to the public budget for these drugs. I would like to give many more and many more examples of negative experiences that have particularly hurt our citizens. And the faction of the Company of Ukraine cannot support such a report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u137	Yuri Hanustak. It's the Boluri. Please. Prepare Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u138	Antonina Bolura, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland. The revenue of the State budget in 2011 was overturned, not by sustained economic growth and development, but by tax and administrative pressure on business, especially small and medium. There are unused budget reserves. These are the main ones: excise taxes on taxes generated in Ukraine by excise goods, import duties, taxes on income from natural persons, absence, total lack of revenue received from the sale of quotas for greenhouse gas emissions provided for in the Kyoto Protocol, decreases compared to the previous period coming from Nutzbank, total cancellation of the collection of non-cash foreign exchange and bracelets and so on. [[over 2 billion dollars]] [[over 800 million]] [[3.6 billion dollars]] These are very significant amounts that are not received. If you take expenses, what's called an economy is really underfunding very important expenses totalling 8.7 billion dollars. Underfunded in large sums of housing and utilities, underfunded economic development in virtually all sectors of the economy, well, except fisheries. Given that the budget is budgeted for the economic development of 9.5 percent of the total, which is very small and very small, in developed countries it's about 25 percent, and it's also surprising. Agriculture alone is funded by 67 percent. This is already, I think it's a very negative result, exactly development and economy, domestic production, GDP growth in the current year. There's already statistics that are very decreasing GDP, in the first quarter is 1.8 percent growth instead of declared -- about 4 percent. A very big failure on all programs. I'm not going to make a list, I'm going to continue and I'm going to agree with a representative from the communists, a very short loan at the expense of the budget. I mean, both getting credit and giving, you're not going to start microcrediting small and medium-sized businesses at all. We all know what damage has been caused to the purchase of medical supplies. What else was there to say? Which is very, very, very tight local budgets, they were being implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u139	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov. Have a seat, please. I repeat, unfortunately we don't have time. We were supposed to start "Virgin" 25 minutes ago. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's the same for everyone. Chechtev, please. Get ready, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, you know, in order to analyse the objective implementation of the budget, you need to record the points of reference and trends without any policies. We take several points of the report: 2009, 15.2 per cent of GDP decline, this is the largest in the world, this is the pit. Let's move on. Budget deficit: 15 per cent of the budget deficit is a disaster, in practice. These are the points of the report, and we need to understand that the budget deficit is the main indicator of economic health, because, practically, the main disease of countries in crisis is the inability to live by means, and this is illustrated by the budget deficit. So here's the European Standard 3. We were in a pit where there was a budget deficit of 15. The tenth, eleventh year, and in the eleventh year, we have a budget deficit of 2.7. Of the 15 per cent budget deficits, almost six have been reduced. We even look better than the European standard, there's 3 percent. A further budget deficit is a resource for economic growth. The budget is being implemented, the economy has broken the decline of 16 per cent, and last year we have increased by 4 per cent. Further than the critics of those who sing from someone else's voice, well-funded, paid-up experts have been blazing for two years that the course of the bracelet, the bracelet will fall, the bracelet will fall. It's like iron, it's worth 1 to 8. I repeat, what does that say? It's about the fact that the money's empty. Money. The economy started to work, the money started to make money, real money, not empty papers. If it were the other way around, the bracelet would swim. The bracelet would be both 9 and 10. Someone wanted it and wanted it. And the bracelet's holding. And the budget implementation that enabled the programme to be implemented made it possible to make social payments. But most importantly, it has given us the opportunity to set up a financial resource for this year that enables us to implement the President's social initiatives, which radically change the situation of social payments even in the face of a global crisis and without IMF loans. I propose to support last year's budget report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u141	Jaroslav Jojik. Get ready for Argentinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u142	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! As we remember, one of the leading slogans of the Party of Regions was to achieve decentralization of governance and decentralization of finance. For more than two years now, we have a new regional authority, a time completely sufficient to keep this pre-election promise from coming true, even if we have a clear trend. At the same time, rather than decentralization, there has been a significant increase in the centralization of budgetary decisions, and Parliament has been quietly removed from the decision-making process. And yesterday's decision has been made that the main directions of budgetary policy are made not by Parliament, but by the President on the basis of his annual address. The government can essentially take the money away from one region and give it to another at any time. These are the realities of decentralization in the implementation of the Party of Regions. But I want to ask the question: what is the effect of this centralization essentially in real numbers that relate to specific people, specific regions? As we know, the main principle of the budgetary system is the principle of a fair and biased distribution of public budget expenditure. What do the figures say? The country’s share of the Donetsk region in GDP in 2010 accounted for 12 percent. And the total amount of current subsidies received in this region was 21 percent in 2010 and 27 percent in 2011. The same situation in the Luhansk region: 8 percent of GDP is frequent. 4 per cent of GDP, 8 per cent in 2010 and 11 per cent in 2011. Three areas: Kyivska, Donetska, and Luhanska received 56 percent of all subsidies. The question is, What is the situation with these funds in other regions? I'll get the information. The Zacarpathian area is 0.1 percent, the Ternopil region is 0.2 percent, even the Zaporezic region is 0.2 percent. Think of it, a hundred times less than in the Donetsk region. I'd like to ask you a question, and where is the plank, to the extent that today's party of power will stop in their appetites? I think some of these figures already deserve not to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u143	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Behind him is Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, my report will be about how government finances in 2011 are destroying Ukraine's banking system. As far as the report is concerned, the one who carefully read it is terribly opaque. So there's figures of so much percentage, so much trend, there's a sense that someone's afraid to show a real number. Well, please tell me, and who in our Ukraine among economists can claim that the consumer price index last year only increased there by 4 percent. It's probably just the clerk who doesn't go to the store, doesn't know what happens to real prices, can write these numbers. I mean, big success, we all understand that it's an inflation factor, not a real increase in output that has, well, a real price. Now, with regard to the destruction of the banking system. I've already called today the figures that the banking system is operating or investing twice as much money in Ukraine's economy as our country's budget. 800 billion is a little over 400 billion, twice as much credit and general resources for our country's budget. Despite the fact that last year the National Bank, holding back inflationary components, severely limited the financial base in Ukraine, only a few percent of the increase in the money base to such a large increase in GDP, it is not logical. And despite that, last year's banking system increased the number of deposits and almost 80 billion additional loans were invested in Ukraine's economy last year. Next. It's about destructive factors. Last year, thanks to this careless state economic policy, the bank system, cash registers, ran out of $12 billion. And this, by the way, caused a negative balance of 2.5 billion. You remember things about passports, things about help. These were attempts to stop this process. But this, once again, is not the country’s economic policy. Next. A sharp deterioration in the investment climate has led investors to come to Ukraine, not to invest in the real economy, but to buy attractive institutions. For example, last year, 30 percent of all investments were directed towards the redemption of the banking system. We're losing the banking system. By the way, only 12 percent of such investments were sent to the metallurgy and 2.5 percent to the machine industry. In banking, 30! They bought up the Ukrainian banking system. Next. As for the policy of the National Bank, the forced policy of the National Bank, which is caused, I would say, by pressure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u145	Please, Ivan Stojko. Surrender? Please, he's handing over Stoika to Arjevetina. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u146	The National Bank is now being built as the main office for making money for the Cabinet of Ministers. In the past year, the National Bank counted 17 billion dollars into the budget, in the past. In the past, it's almost 12 billion. And you think that's whose money? It's not money from the banking system, it's customer funding because of the refinancing policy. Why would the National Bank be the main donor of the country’s budget? By the way, in crisis conditions, all central banks have reduced interest rates, refinancing, and a zero-to-zero-per-per-cent rate. We had 10, 15, 16 for the entire period of crisis! I think it's because of this common policy of the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I think that government policy or government finance in part of the fund-raising, you know that today's state-guaranteed debt is 473 billion. Last year, 70 billion were set aside for repayment, and government finances are beginning to divert money from the real economy. And tens of billions today, including from the banking system, are headed to offset the deficit in the financial budget. As for the credit policy that the Cabinet of Ministers is carrying out. Today it was said that this was the worst option that could be implemented. I'll get the statistics. In the past year, 15 debtors paid off only 70 million, or 0.5 of their debts. 42 debtors don't pay at all. Nearly 14 billion were directed to lend new loans to such debtors. By the way, in the past, yesterday, you and I created another state-owned financial institution to replace the state-owned export bank. I think that's another example of failed state policy. 17 institutions today that actually don't work. I think the main disadvantage of government finances is that they are not trusted by the Ukrainians. I'll get the stats. Three hundred and thirty-six announcements, different funds, because of the government's securities, and only 92 of them have happened poorly. So every third contest was over. Ukrainians do not trust government finances. And by the way, we have more than 450-500 billion dollars on our hands in Ukraine today that could be the main source of the real economy of Ukraine. So I don't think we need to approve this report. I don't know if I'm going to be able to, but I would like to personally welcome the bankers once again with their professional holiday, the National Bank teams, the professionals of our banking team and all the professionals of the second-level banking system. With a holiday! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u147	Please, Karmazin. After him is Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u148	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear National Deputies! He listened to the report today, and I would like to say the words of the verse, "No way to lead a sadder life than to tell the story of the Ukrainian budget." So it's beautiful, and in the rest, it's beautiful, and in the rest. We'll open up the media. We're opening "The Lawgiver of Ukraine," and he writes what your budget is and what you're doing. So, Odessa. So, Odessa. They're closing down hospital number seven. A total of 350,000 inhabitants of the Suvorov district of Odessa were closed, contrary to article 49 of the Constitution. Eleven dentists make four, and in the rest, a beautiful Marquis, it's all good. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. You said, "It's okay." Let's take it from here. Of the three dispensers in Odessa, 1 is left. Keep your mouth shut. It's okay. The budget only finances one quarter of the doctor’s salary, and everything else is paid, and the plan is 10,000 dollars for one worker. Let's keep going and watch. There's nothing to fund an army. We've lived to see that the southern direction is actually closing, and it's shrinking. Odessa will have to leave because we have to sell all the premises. What are you doing, government officials? Azarov, Yanukovich! Are you giving up the state in advance? You give it to everyone: Turks, Romanians, Russians, you give it to everyone. And you're re-establishing the budget. I'm listening to 8 and a half billion overcoming. I'm looking at another book, the findings of the Court of Auditors. I quote: "The revenue of the State budget in 2011 totaled 1.2 billion." There's 8 and a half, there's 1.2. And the rest? And everything else is fine. I'm looking at another newspaper. I'm opening a newspaper called Aspect. What does she say? Medreform. "Nobody denies the need to reform the existing health system," the author writes. But it refers to the President who said that medicine should be brought closer to the remotest part of our homeland, the village, to a man who lives 100 or 200 kilometers away. During medical reform, medicine has actually drifted away from people -- written in the Dnipropetrovsk region -- 80 to 100 kilometers. Of the 22 maternity homes, 13 are closed. Now, if you have to give birth to a woman, she goes 80 to 100 kilometers, sometimes gives birth in a tree plantation under a tree. It came to pass that five-month-old Arthur Kozlov of the village of Poznamenyvka died because the family doctor was not qualified. Besides, it's a beautiful Marquis, budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u149	Pavlovsky gives it to Hanusztak. Please. And it's going to be 1 minute in Laszka, because four minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen! What is a budget? The budget is what any company called the enterprise's performance report. So let's see what's the report of an enterprise called a state. First of all, there is no basic asset analysis. We see that they've gone down by 11 billion, that's privatization, but we don't see capitalization. There is no conclusion in the report regarding the conduct of objects, their level of readiness, transitional objects, but we can see that liabilities have grown. Again, as we continue what my previous colleague said, we will analyze the dynamics, that is, how we have increased our liabilities, our debt. It grew by 33 billion, 7 billion more guaranteed debt, 8 billion -- debt from the Pension Fund. But what's most disturbing and what's not mentioned here is that there's been an increase in debt servicing costs, both in nominal terms and in percentage of the budget, which is the worst. In 2011, 23 billion people went to service, 30 billion in 2012, education and health care combined, funded by the state budget. Government policies are too expensive for society. And we're getting into the defult spiral that Greece's already involved in. The 2011 budget declaration set out the direction of budgetary policy towards a normal macroeconomic environment, the creation of a medium-term medium-term budget planning with clear fiscal and cost-effective orientations. The midterm perspective elements are not even seen in the budget implementation report. There are no indicators in any government program that can lead to the conclusion at which stage it is being implemented, how much money it needs for the next period, which management decisions need to be made for its effective implementation. Moreover, the information on the implementation of the programs, thanks to Minfina for providing this information, indicates that most of the principals of the funds simply do not understand their mission. They confuse success indicators with human financial indicators. The trick is to increase social standards. The average wage and pension increased by 8.5 and inflation increased by 17 percent. As for the situation with the local budgets, one conclusion. They're full of space. In 2011, their dependence on the center increased by 7.3 percent. Local budgets have only 21.3 in total of the general fund’s income.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u151	Thank you. Baby, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u152	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The government of Azarov's debt policy leads our country to bankruptcy. Similarly, all previous authorities have been bankrupt for 20 years. We now have 500 billion dollars of debt. This year, the government plans to borrow nearly 100 billion more and to pay $90 billion. For comparison. It's all the medicine, education, culture, sports, they get less than the government is going to borrow and spend. This policy must therefore be stopped immediately. That's it. I thought the money you borrowed was going to eat. That's why I've registered a bill in the Supreme Council so that if they borrow money, they can only invest, they can create jobs, they can provide jobs for young people, first of all, jobs and decent wages. But this requires a change of government today. To do this, we need to change the anti - Ukrainian authorities of today. Then we'll put order in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the full-procedure discussion is over. I'm putting to the vote the draft Ordinance on the Implementation of Ukraine's 2011 State Budget Act. [[Registration number 10160-d]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:16:50]] For 231 It's been decided. The factions. The Party of Regions – 181, "The Fatherland" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 1, the Communists – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, "Reforms" – 19, "Afterfractional" – 10. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for "Virgin." We've got till 2:00 p.m., i.e. 43 minutes. Please, Calchenka. After him is Kiselov. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not today, because we've already taken a break. Up to 14 years old. Please, those who transmit the notes, sit in the hall until they receive the speaker to whom you pass the word. Otherwise, the word will not be received. Yavorowski, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please wait. Pavlovsky, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u154	Andrey Pavlovsky, the faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, it has become known that at the end of May, perhaps the 25th authorities plan to extend, prepared for the purchase of oligarchs from the Party of Regions, the so-called Labour Code, which gives exclusive priority to the interests of employers and essentially narrows down the social rights of employed workers, transforms them, in fact, into hired slaves to the criminal capital of the Party of Regions. What is worth article 143 of this code, which allows for the establishment of an unlimited working day, as it says, for 12 hours or more, increases the working week from 40 to 48 hours, with 36 working weeks in France in Europe, Germany, and Germany. I'm making it much easier for the employees to be released, in fact, you don't need the consent of the unions. For the purpose of collecting the compromise, article 28 of this Code, allows us to monitor, monitor, monitor the worker with technical equipment, audio listening and video surveillance. Why? To compromise on trade union activists and release them? The employer is given the single right to terminate the collective territorial agreements by six months, to issue the self - regulations required for the employee, to fine, and to punish the employee without official investigation. And I'd like to point out that the role of trade unions is actually zero, even the entire chapter that is now in the current Labour Code on trade unions has been thrown out. So maybe I want to go to the unions. The time has come for us to get out of our sleep and carry out our direct mission to protect the people who are hired. See, in Europe, millions of people have produced trade unions to protect their social rights. What do we have in Ukraine? They used to look at the secretary's mouth to the party, and now the employer. Get off your knees! Protect Your Interests! Otherwise, you will be hired slaves. The time has come to protect our interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u155	Yes, Kiselov is handing over Popescu. Acid is present.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u156	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Today I drew attention to some of the problems that the electorate faced while working in the district. First. Today, Ukraine has an agreement on a small border movement with Russia, Poland, and other neighbouring countries. But negotiations with Romania are not yet complete. At the same time, there are, as a minimum, two circumstances that provide optimistic prospects for concluding negotiations on a small and border movement agreement between Ukraine and Romania. First, in Romania, instead of the orange conservative government in May, representatives of the Social Liberal Union led by Social Democrat Victor Ponte came to power, and thus new opportunities are emerging to intensify the international dialogue. Second, Ukraine has appointed a new ambassador to Romania. Therefore, the renegotiation of negotiations for the introduction of the small-border movement regime in border areas with Romania becomes a new issue. I note that this step will simplify the movement of tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens across the border with the European Union. In addition, it will help restore the border crossing points that, in conjunction with the implementation of the Third Protocol to the Madrid Convention on Cross-border Cooperation, which we ratified with you last Wednesday, will create new opportunities for socio-economic and cultural cooperation within the already existing Euroregions: Carpathian, Upper Prute and Lower Danube. On the basis of the above, I appeal to the new Ambassador of Ukraine in Romania to step up efforts to revitalize the Ukrainian-Romanian negotiations on a small border movement agreement between Ukraine and Romania. Please consider this part of my statement to be a parliamentary address to the Embassy of Ukraine in Romania. Dear colleagues, I also pay attention to the "Czernovetske oblovtodor" and the services of highways in the area of the need to repair roads on the plots: Tarashani, Stanovci, Bukovka, and the section of Deepka, Suchevena, Kupa, which will soon be unable to travel by car. Dear colleagues! There is also a need for repairs and a central road in the village of Vodice of the Rakhiv district of Zakarpatja, where an international folklore festival will be held on May 27, and guests will have to meet not only with songs but also with good roads. Mr. Chairman, this part of my statement is considered to be a parliamentary request to the "Kravtodor" and to the services of the roads of Cherniewecka and Zakarpata, as well as to the heads of the State Administration of the region of Dubrovnik and the Rakhov region of Zakarpata. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u157	Yes, Stepanenko is passing it on to Colexna. Stepanenko's alive. A chariot, please. After him is Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Regrettably, in Ukrainian society, there continues to be an anti-democratic totalitarian momentum in the idea, neo-Naziism, radical nationalism, extremism, and xenophobia, particularly with regard to the events of the Great Homeland War and the Second World War. Thus, over the past five to seven years in Ukraine, attempts to politically heroize and rehabilitate UN-OPA leaders and participants who collaborated with Nazism have become systematic. During the Yushchenka presidency, various institutions of memory management and myths have been actively developing, aimed at bleaching the history of UN-OPA, falsifying some of its moments, silenced involvement in the Holocaust, the genocide of Poles, and terror against Ukrainians with other political beliefs. In order to be more objective and more honest in this regard, so as not to be accused of having the hand of Moscow, the hand of the KGB, the hand of the Ukrainian politicians involved, we have turned to the experience of European countries. In Europe, a large number of scientific and not political studies have been conducted in the United States of America for a long time. And today, we are presenting a compilation of articles by scientists from the United States, Germany, Sweden, who have long studied these issues, entitled “The Creation of Myths on UN-OPA”, and here are the mechanisms for the creation of these myths. And I'm only going to quote a few quotes, like Per Anders Rudling: "As these fascist organizations cooperated with Nazi Germany in ethnic cleansing and mass killings on a large scale, they are a problematic symbol for those who are committed to democracy with the stated ambition of joining the European Union." [[UN-UPA]] Or Timothy Schneider, American: "The Bandera has pursued the goal of making Ukraine a one-party fascist dictatorship without national minorities. During World War II, his followers killed many Poles and Jews. Why does President Yushchenko, leader of the democratic orange revolution, want to rehabilitate such a figure?" This book, a compilation of articles, is published by the international anti-fascist movement of Ukraine with a circulation of 10,000 copies. It will be presented in Zaporozhye, Luhansk, Dnepropetrovsk, Crimea. There's already been a presentation in Sevastopol. Next week it will be presented in Kiev and here in the Supreme Council. It will be sent to all libraries of our State, including the Ukrainian language. I think I really have to win. We must honor the heroes, and the enemies, the villains, must remain on the black side of our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u159	Yes, please, Paul’s message to Jaborowski. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u160	Dear voters, at your request, I continue to read fragments from a unique document, a protocol for questioning the former head of the State Property Fund, Mr. Michael Chechchev, on May 5, 2005. I'm going to read it because we're getting a little light on how privatization happened in those years. So I go on to what I've read. The question is, this interrogation was conducted by Dikhtyar, Lieutenant Colonel of the Police on May 5, 2005. I remind you that Julia Timoshenko is Prime Minister, and Mr. Mikhailo is giving such a case to the prosecution. Question: "Do you consider it legitimate to privatize objects that are not subject to privatization?" The answer is, "I think it's illegal. However, in the form of an exception, the Ukrainian Housing Fund had privatized the property of such facilities. In addition, I received instructions from Ukraine's top officials. In particular, with regard to “Crivorostali”, I received such an instruction from the former President of Ukraine, Kuchma. It is precisely to accept and listen to the initiative of the People's Deputy of Pinchuk to privatize the Krivoroz metal combination. During my meeting with Pinchuk, I told him that the GGI was a property fund, that is, “Ukraine had no right to prepare privatization documents without a government decision. There was a repeat call by the former President of Ukraine, Kuchma, who ordered the preparation of documents for the privatization of the business. I did not challenge the President's direction, although I understood that for the interests of the State, the enterprise would be better in the possession of the State and would bring very substantial funds into the budget. Having received the President's team, I called on the Minister for Industrial Policy of Neustreev to prepare the facility. At that time, he was already aware of the issue. And I think this team has already been given to him by former President Kuchma. In view of the fact that the President had been instructed, all documentation on pre-privatization training had been completed on short notice. Therefore, the Government's order to initiate the privatization of the ICC was carried to the Cabinet of Ministers on purpose.” Do you have any idea how hasty we were, how privatized we were? “In the process of pre-privatization training, the People’s Deputy Pinchuk has repeatedly called and has been interested in the process.” And another thing is, "How was the sale of the nicopol factory's property?" Answer: “The question was that it was proposed to use the sales scheme provided for by the privatization programme.” I'm missing something. But the main thing is: "The initial recommendation of ex-President Kuchma to accept Pinchuk was taken by me as a team to help Pinchuk privatize the enterprise. In this regard, special competitions have been developed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u161	Yeah, next time. Karmazin Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u162	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished national MPs and the Ukrainian people to the fact that, from the official reports of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine, it has become known that it is changing the movement of trains, which cancels a large part of the popular trains from Kiev, Lviv, Kharkiv, Odessa, Mariupol, other cities of Ukraine. For example, the "Kiev-Johno-Frankivsky" trains are eliminated; "Adler-Lviv", 46/45 is eliminated; "Simferopol-Johno-Frankivsky" is eliminated; "Herson-Lviv" is not required by the authorities; "Maryupol-Lviv" is not required by the authorities; "Harkov-Truskavet" is never allowed to get tickets to this train, is cancelled. Let them now fly their planes, their officials, to Kiev for 150 dollars, and then to Lviv, and then they arrive! "Kremenczuk – Znamenka – Lviv", "Czernovci – Ivano-Frankivsk – Moscow", "Kiev – Lviv" 169, "Kiev – Lviv" 253, "Odessa – Černovci", "Harkov – Jaremča", "Chernomorec" now leaves Odessa in the afternoon, at 15 hours. With that. For men to come at night, to seek a hotel, again to the oligarchs, then to suffer again. As early as June 3, 2011, from this rostrum, I was asked to check the illegal rental of Lentrans, which was led by Kozak, the same one that had been appointed by the Director General of Coper-class Trucks since March 2011 to transport grains to the State for hundreds of millions of dollars, artificial price increases for transportation, the use of measures to return cars to state ownership and the resolution of responsibility for the occupied Kozak position. As early as 2005, I was addressing Henprocuror in the name of Henprocuror with regard to the verification of the facts of the large-scale cynical robbery of the state in particular large-scale, fictitious enterprise, the legalization of money and other property acquired by individuals of Ukrattransling and businesses who created fictitious enterprises: the Ukrainian transport company T.O.V. "Scretak" and so on, and stole more than 10,000 wagons and other comprehensive property complexes from the state. The Year of Reign, otherwise it's not called Cossack's position as director of the Crucifixion Center, has shown the inability to run this facility. So I demand that you immediately consider on the government, on the Ukrainian Security Council, the situation that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u163	Thank you. Bachelor's. I'm sorry. No one is doing anything outside the Rules today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u164	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, supported the adoption of an emergency medical bill on first reading yesterday. I am very grateful to my colleagues for understanding the critical situation in medicine today and for the need to change it. But as a doctor, as the chairman of the committee, as a Ukrainian citizen, I was deeply offended by the position of some political forces, some MPs who, without even reading the text of the bill, did not know its essence and purpose, simply opposed its adoption for the sake of piracy and oppression. Medicine is once again becoming the pre-election technology that politicians use to raise their ratings, and real changes are of no interest to them at all. Why has today’s power taken on this complex reform, knowing well that it will never earn political dividends? Because an empty chat of the past 20 years, when medicine has been remembered only from choice to choice, has led Ukrainians to fall by 6 million in 10 years because child mortality is 2.5 times higher and maternal mortality is 5 times higher in Ukraine than in developed countries in Europe. It's not the results of reform, it's the starting points that the previous power has left us. This is where we had to start reform. However, we have not begun to close our eyes and are trying to change the situation today. And those who have not done anything for 20 years and who have brought medicine almost to its end today are criticizing the changes we have made. The reform we started less than a year ago, the pilot regions are absolutely not perfect, and we will never be able to say it, because it was not ideal in any country of the world when it began. The changes are not only taking place in pilot regions today. We have already completed the Chercas Children's Hospital in a year, which no one has even touched for 20 years. It's got 150 million bracelets on it. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, signed changes to the State budget a month ago, increased the equipment of the perinatal centres already opened in each region by 270 million. During the past two years, equipment has been purchased in Volynsk, Ivano-Frankovsky, Chernigovské, Ternopolské, Lvivské, Hmelnické, Chercas, Dnepropetrovské oblasts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u165	Thank you. Kulikov Kirilo. Kirilo Kulikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you as opposed to the politicians who are in this room, whose thoughts are shaped by political scientists, and whose actions are influenced by various sociologists, imagemakers. I address you as citizens, first as parents. During this week, the issue of investigating the activities of the so-called "XX" Fund of Ukraine disappeared in the agenda of the Supreme Council. That's all there is to it. This is the fund that had to be rebuilt by the future doctor. This hospital was supposed to save children. I want to emphasize once again that everyone hears from outside this hall that this commission is aimed at investigating the work of Yashchenk. This is the commission. I think Yashchenka's work has already given the voters an answer. I think the main point of this committee is to learn what happened to this clinic and to rebuild this clinic. We need her. Every Ukrainian needs it. I want to say again that today, if this question disappears from the agenda, this question will be asked in every constituency. It's a question of money -- 1 bracelet, 10 bracelets -- your loved ones, your friends, your neighbors. It is a matter of good deeds that we do not have the right to bury. It is a matter of giving people faith that their good deeds have the opportunity to win in this country. And what a bracelet taken from it can save lives. And that's the main thing. And once again, I urge you not to turn your back on this question, because many of the people in this rostrum who are constantly accusing the former president are negotiating with him outside the hall. But he is not the interest of this committee. The main question is that Ukraine needs such a clinic. And it needs to be created. And if we do that, we've been doing it right. Perhaps this will be our main work in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u167	Ribakov. He's handing over Haszuk. Please. There's a fisherman. Next Huschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished listeners! The agro-industrial complex is one of the most promising and important sectors of the Ukrainian economy. And given the projected increase in food deficits, domestic agrarian production could lead Ukraine to the world’s leading economies. Sadly, however, the lack of systematic reforms has led to a protracted crisis in agriculture. This is especially true of animals, which today are difficult times because of various, diverse, objective and subjective reasons. The crisis in animal production is long - standing. From 1990 to 2010, milk production declined more than two times, and cows were slaughtered more than three times. It has not been possible to break the situation for the better and for today’s government. When the population of milk and milk products were cut short, their constant increase in the purchase price of milk even declined in winter. The monopoly of large milk - processing enterprises allows them to dictate an unfavourable purchase price for peasants. Additional difficulties for animals have been created by what is called a "sir war". A few months ago, the Reformation for the Future called on the government to take immediate steps to unlock Ukrainian exports to the traditional market in Russia. Controversial statements in the media continue to appear. This has put rural farms and families at the brink of survival who survive the sale of milk. Without the government’s help, the Montenegrin peasants turned and continued to seek help from our Igor Ribakov faction to resolve the issue of increasing the purchase price of milk. In turn, the MP's Reform for the Future has repeatedly called on the government and the pro-profession ministry with parliamentary requests and appeals to provide milk producers with the necessary support. However, we have not received reasonable answers that would give us a clear perspective on how to deal with this problem. In this context, the Reform for the Future faction requires the government and the Ministry of Profiles to act immediately to protect the interests of dairy producers. As early as 2011, the government had planned a number of measures to restore milk and milk production. For 2011 - 2012, subsidies and payments had to be approved for milk and meat producers, but no decision of the Cabinet of Ministers had actually been made. At the same time, by turning our faction and its leader, the Parliamentary Agar Committee discussed the issue of keeping the price regulation on milk, approving the idea. Also discussed is the proposal to reduce the time limit for the raw material to seven days after its receipt, which was reflected in Bill 10456. This legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u169	Yes, please, Buttercup, microphone, there is, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u170	I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Vitalia Jurawsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u171	crane, please. Zarabinski to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u172	Respectful voters, respected Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, in the face of a systemic demographic crisis and a decline in the number of rural populations in Ukraine, need to be given special attention by the State to provide full secondary education to schoolchildren living in rural areas, to improve the human resources system of rural schools. In Ukraine there has been a significant increase in the number of small - filled schools. This school year has 605 schools with fewer than ten students, one thousand 460 schools with fewer than 40 students, and two thousand 444 schools with fewer than one hundred students. Over the past 20 years, the number of students in the village has dropped by almost 800,000 and the number of schools by two thousand. A marked reduction in the network of schools in rural areas, the unification of classes leads to a violation of one of the citizens’ constitutional rights, including children, for quality and affordable education, and the necessary intervention of the legislator. We and the Ukrainian national deputy Bogdan Hubski prepared a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on general secondary education for the minimum number of students in schools located in rural areas. He, this bill, is aimed at a clear legislative definition that in general educational institutions located in villages, villages, the number of students in classes is determined by the demographic situation, but should be at least three. With fewer students in the classroom, they follow an individual form of learning. The adoption of this bill will stop the closure of small schools. There is a school, there is a village. The world will lack and lack food. Thank God, Ukraine is not in danger. By preserving the village, we preserve the village, and we strengthen Ukraine. When considering this bill, I would ask him to support it. And yet today we greeted the bankers correctly from their professional holiday. But it was forgotten that on May 20 we would celebrate the Day of Culture Workers and Masters of National Art. Give them, God, health, creative strength, wealth in everything. This is the greeting of the Party of the Regions. And I hope all the other factions support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u173	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski. Yes, Mikola Haritonovich Shershun. Get ready for Maibeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u174	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! From this rostrum, statements have repeatedly been made that the Ukrainian village needs immediate help. My colleagues from the National Party faction spoke, and I raised this painful topic for the State and myself. Yet, despite all efforts, the situation is still inconsolable. Today, the fact that Ukrainian meat is becoming a deficit is being sold in stores and markets because of the codeon, which is often highly questionable. And if so, soon the milk of the native producer will not be bought anywhere. Ukraine’s Prime Minister, Mikola Azarov, raised the problem of supporting and stimulating the Ukrainian peasant who holds the top. Today, everyone is well aware that without financial incentives, farmers will not be involved in animal production. Today, it is individuals who are feeding the country. So the State must also take care of them. Meanwhile, our peasants are just fooling around. The milk processing companies they use for their own reasons set prices for milk. If large producers are subject to contracts and price reconciliation protocols, this cooperation is largely not legal. This oral form of contract allows milk processors to manipulate prices. More than that, they still allow themselves to keep these payments! If you analyze the market’s price policy of buying milk, you can see that the level of purchasing prices depends on seasonality. I mean, in the spring-summer period, milk, especially purchased from the population, is extremely cheap and its cost does not even cover the costs. By the way, there's another unpleasant trend -- simultaneously lowering the purchase price for milk, especially for the population, for all milk processing enterprises. And this, as you can see, gives you reason to talk about a certain plot in the milk market. Here I would like to clarify the situation of the Antimonopoly Committee. What is the answer? Today there is a bill of the National MP, a member of the National Party, Sergio Tereshuk. The first thing that's very important is that he predicts a bill for sold milk for seven days. There is still much positive about this document. And I'd like my honourable colleagues to support this bill. And the Cabinet of Ministers will provide public budget funds to support the overcoming of seasonal prices. So once and for all, solve this important problem for the villagers and the state as a whole. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u175	Thank you. Yeah, I can't see Maibeard. Asshole, please. Get ready. Chaplain, please. He's handing over Caplienko. Get ready for Gretzaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u176	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You know, I'm addressing you from this high and respectable rostrum. Because yesterday, Thursday, there was a bill 9538 on Ukraine's energy balance in this Parliamentary Hall. Unfortunately, there were not enough votes in the room for the bill to be adopted. Perhaps for two reasons. First, or together, we don't all understand that without such a basic bill, or a basic bill, or a law that allows us to assess what money, what money, what direction, what direction and how the use of energy in Ukraine is going on, we're not going to be able to live. I want to remind you that the term "energy security" is quite popular today. So everyone is saying that we need to ensure the energy security of our own state and nobody wants to mention that in order to lay the legislative groundwork for this process, we need to adopt three basic bills: energy audits, energy conservation, and, above all, the energy balance of Ukraine. There's an anecdote. How far were we from Japan? In view of whether it was energy independence or not, we stayed behind forever. And if we do not realize today that such laws are needed by our own state, we will not have a future. Today we live in a state that does not have information about its own energy consumption level, and as a result it is not able to form a legitimate demand for energy in any way. Remember 2009, a famous or notorious agreement between Russia and Ukraine on the consumption of gas for 5 years. Today, everyone is talking about the price, but no one is talking about the extent of the consumption as a commitment made by the Ukrainian State. They were exaggerated to this day, the day of last year, more precisely, Ukraine was at the limit of responsibility for failing to implement the paragraphs of the agreement on consumption of Russian gas. Why did this happen? Because Ukrainian authorities, led by the Committee on Fuel and Energy, do not have the question of how much gas is needed in Ukraine. No one can answer, that's how much electricity it takes for Ukraine, coal, coal, or any other source of energy. We urge you to stop, rethink what happened yesterday, and still go back to the issue of the Energy Balance Act. We're bringing it in as a replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u177	In the next session. Snack. Baranov-Mohort, please. Stand by, Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u178	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Employers, and Officials of All Levels! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the current stage, Ukraine's economy is experiencing a sharp deficit in skilled workers in the field of material production. The number of active workers was virtually equal to the number of retirees. In some professions, the average age of workers approached the pensioner. This, in turn, slows down economic growth and makes it impossible to fully address the issue of social security. The issue of mobility, competitiveness, and the qualifications of workers is of particular relevance. Their training, retraining, and development should meet the increasing demands of modern manufacturing and employers in the labour market. Today's labour market is in dire need of skilled workforces from technologically complex professions, such as locksmiths, carpenters, electric gas generators and others. Dear colleagues, we already have examples of the rural area where there is neither a tokary nor a welder or a locksmith. How will that bread be given birth when it is served, and there is no one to repair it? There are difficulties in carrying out vocational training. No conditions have been created for full implementation of the production and manufacturing software. There's no way to create a new, powerful material and technology base in today's teaching facility on its own, without the help of investors and employers. At the same time, for example, in Kiev, this question has already come to a dead end. In the context of the 2011-2015 Kiev Education Programme, the effort of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the management of KMDA, the deputies of Kyivrada and employers in the 2nd of 19 PTU has already been combined to create and finance training centres by social partners, such as the Patton Electricity Institute and the Henkel Bautechnik Company. [[Ukraine]] Today, there is a need for a set of measures to modernize and further develop the system of vocational and technical education, to create modern conditions for the preparation of skilled personnel according to the requirements of modern production. Modernization of the system of vocational education as a factor in the strategic development of the state is a top priority for many developed countries. In today’s conditions, there is no doubt that the mechanism should work — education, science, and production. That is why I urge employers in all areas of farming and officials of the authorities of all levels to unite their efforts towards building a social partnership in the preparation of workforces. This relationship will result in the discovery of the intelligence and talent of the Ukrainian people through the system of vocational education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u179	Yes, please, Stojko gives his word. Jaroslav, please. The next one is Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u180	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine! May 20 traditionally, according to President Yashchenk's decree, Ukraine honors and honors the victims of political repression. In the past century, in the 19th century, we are in the former Soviet Union, including Ukraine, and we are simply counting those who were destroyed by the regime. Today's newspaper "Day" has published, as it were, the acquisitions of dictators who have established a bright future in their countries -- communism. So when you read these sociologist studies, it just gets creepy. In the account of Vladimir Illich Lenin, this is a minimum of 4 million victims, Stalin 40 million victims, 44 total for two dictators who spent 44 million lives in their infernal car. If you add to that, so to speak, the acquisitions of other communist leaders outside the Union of Kim Ir Sena, Paul Pota, Mao Zeduna are 44 million more victims. I say, according to sociologists, communism has destroyed over 100 million lives in the last century. And here's when, here I am, a respected Ukrainian young communist saying, "That's very little. If this figure had been doubled, if it had been 200 million, Communism would have already been established on the ground." And this is when we were in the session hall two days ago discussing the setting up and return of Crimean Tatars. And when the leader of the Communists justifies this one of the worst crimes of communism on our Ukrainian land, of course, then the question is, What is happening in our Ukraine? Why, in the 20th year, we still have these people who are still in love with us, who are still in power today. They would have launched a mechanism to destroy people. So I think the time of the Hague war tribunal will certainly come, and those who committed these crimes, and these descendants of today who justify these crimes, will be sitting there, on this bench of defendants. Thank you. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u181	Arjovitin. And then let's see.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u182	Honorary bankers of a colleague from the National Bank, of the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking, colleagues of the banks of Ukraine! Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Association of Ukrainian Banks and personally welcome you to Day, our professional holiday, Banker's Day! Your high professionalism, balance, and ability to make unusual decisions under changing circumstances deserve deep respect. The banking sector demonstrates the proper stability, reliability, and irregularity of management decisions. In spite of all the crises, uninterrupted settlement is ensured, and credit is gradually being restored. The banking system emerges from the crisis and, of course, pulls its customers out of it. In a climate of instability that has plagued the global financial crisis, Ukrainian bankers have not only managed to maintain stability in the field last year but also to improve basic performance rates. Yes, banks' assets increased by 12 percent in 2011, loans to the economy by 14 percent, almost 80 billion dollars. Gradually, confidence in the banking system is regained by investors, from ordinary Ukrainians. And this is evidenced by the increase in personal deposits that last year amounted to almost 15 percent or 35 million dollars that were directed to the real economy. It strengthened its positions and muscles in the banking system itself. The bank’s own capital has been increased by almost 20 billion dollars. Last year, the banking system was able to halt the bankruptcy of the banking system, and by the first quarter of this year, the banking system was starting again to pay taxes to the budget, which had reached nearly 2.5 billion dollars. Thanks to its activities, the banking system improved its position of confidence in the population this year and over four months this year, the growth in bank deposits was nearly 20 billion. I sincerely wish to continue the established traditions of the field, achievement, desired results, inexhaustible energy and enthusiasm, creative gains, health, creative strength, further professional success, optimism, good and well - being for you and your loved ones. And the main thing. Remember, there are customers behind our actions. With a holiday, bankers!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u183	Thank you. Let's talk about it. I think that's it. I'm glad you're here. I'll continue for 15 minutes, maybe everyone will. Please, Volinec Eugenius. Gordien, please. But I'd like to keep it simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u184	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw attention to the two problems that Poltavian people have brought to my attention. First. I was personally contacted by residents of the village of Obolon, Seminovian district of Poltava, about the failure to reorganize and close the local hospital. During their communication, citizens expressed their concern and negative attitude toward the authorities ’ intentions to reorganize a medical institution. They view the restructuring as an attempt to shut down the hospital and deprive it of proper medical care for its inhabitants and its surrounding villages. They stressed that the authorities have been trying to do so in a balanced way for more than the first year. For this purpose, the hospital has not been properly financed for many years and has been deteriorating. Residents of the territorial community insist on having a public discussion of the problem. At community meetings, with the participation of representatives of the department of profile, district and district administrations, the district and district council constituencies, and a balanced decision that would protect the interests of the inhabitants and prevent the medical care of the people from getting worse. Another problem. The threat of destruction depended on the Orikhiv sugar plant located in the village of Novoorikhovka in the Luben district of Poltava. The threat is that it will not work in 2012 and will be destroyed, as has already happened with many sugar factories in Ukraine. Today, the factory is in critical condition, the owners are constantly changing, and there are plans to cut it out in the near future. People are calling and asking for help from the authorities and asking for the direction of the government, the Attorney General's Office, the leadership of the Orikhov sugar plant. They're asking to learn the legitimacy of its privatization, reselling, bankruptcy and return to state property, and finally to make sure that the land-pile lease of the Nafkom-Agro DP, which has controlled this plant for the last time, and many of the land in Lubenski, Horolski and other areas of the Poltava region, have not been counted with the people in 2011. People hope that the authorities will hear about their plight and apply all the importance of national influence to protect the interests of the people of work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u185	Thank you. Marina Perestenko. Then there's Karpuk. Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u186	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected citizens of Ukraine! Today, I would like to talk about yet another miracle of the preserved property of former colchuses, which does not give rest to the newly cooked Ukrainian bourgeois. According to the Decree on urgent measures to accelerate the reform of the agricultural sector, among others, there has been a reform of the agricultural sector and of the collective rural enterprise of the Land of Lenin, the Ternovo Village Council of the Sevastopol Region. All the property of the rations fund was scattered among the members of the CSP. By their decision, all social facilities: schools, clinics, hospitals, homes, roads, human settlements systems, had to be transferred to the property of the territorial community. During the search in April 2008, Sevastopol law enforcement officials removed statutory and accounting documents, as well as the printing of the Lenin Memorial. Curiously, the papers and seals were placed in the hands of those who, on the eve of the documents, formed a liquidation commission for the agricultural industry and later elected a new management of the agricultural enterprise. Thus, four years ago, the Sevastopol Rural Council of the Ternovo Village Council of the Balaklav region of Sevastopol was subjected to a frank raid by individuals who had never worked in the holding and had nothing to do with it. Having gained access to the deriban, they are said to have begun to sell property and land belonging to members of the SADC, including social facilities intended for the common needs of the inhabitants of these villages, 32 buildings worth four and a half million grivens were sold by the new leaders of the SAI to a private enterprise, which, by the way, represents one person for only ten thousand grivens. If the same objects were to be implemented at a market value rather than at a book value, they would at least cost ten times the value. The Balaklav District Court of Sevastopol, as well as the Sevastopol Court of Appeal, recognized the illegal actions taken to take over the management of the CSP and to dissipate its assets. Although the decisions of the courts have now entered into force, they cannot be implemented. According to the legal leader of the KSP, Nikolai Prokopenka, members of the Colosseum have repeatedly addressed both the President and the Prime Minister and the local authorities, but no concrete response has been received by the authorities. Only a copy of this content came: it was an economic dispute, refer to the courts, and only their decisions could change the situation. But the fact is, in our country, even the decisions of the courts have proved powerless to influence the situation. I therefore ask today to consider an official request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of the legitimate members of the KSP “Memory of Lenin” of the village council of the Balaklav region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u187	Yes, John the Rabbit, please follow him, Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u188	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I am approached by people from various parts of Ukraine, especially by members of garden societies with complaints that they cannot listen to the national radio, including Vasil Kucher of Sum. Previously, these programs were broadcast on a wire radio and on long and medium waves. In many areas, the wire radio has been destroyed, and the long and medium waves have been silenced; instead, it is very easy to catch the Voice of Russia, the Belarusian radio, the Polish, the Romanian radio, not all of them can be counted. The investigation of this case led me to the state-owned Radio Broadcasting Center in Browarach, Kiev. Today, none of the five radio transmitters work there. Earlier, longwaves covered more than 90 percent of Ukraine’s territory and partly neighboring countries: Russia, Belarus, Moldova. The decision of the national radio company also stopped the work of the last medium-wave transmitter broadcast by the beam program. Thus, the entire radio station was shut down, with more than 50 workers out of work. The national radio company explains its decision to refuse to speak in the long and medium term, but these are excuses. Because in order to restore the work of a transmitter in almost all of Ukraine, only 8 million dollars are needed. It has to be said that longwave radio is an element in the system of technology to alert populations to emergencies, and this is already a question of people’s lives. Thus, the real reason for such a restriction on citizens’ access to information is not in the financial capacity of the State but in the corruption and anti - Ukrainian orientation of the current government. The Radio Broadcasting Center in Barovara is nearly 150 hectares of land. This is the land that's eyeing our government officials. That's why they want to destroy this company. Nor is it a secret that only on the first and second programs of the national radio can you hear a Ukrainian song, listen to interesting news stories about Ukrainian folk traditions, feel the Ukrainian spirit. It is clear that the current government is seeking to limit the information of Ukrainians in neighboring and distant Ukraine. Speech on long and medium waves significantly enhances the integrity of Ukraine’s information space, its sovereignty. What the anti - Ukrainian forces really don't want. The Ukrainian authorities are eager to clear the Ukrainian information space for foreigners. The Ukrainian government is more concerned about the foreign cultural product than about the Ukrainian product. And in this example, we see the irresistible desire of government officials to trade strategic resources, in this case informational. The Ukrainian People's Party warns the President of Ukraine, the government, the parliament against such activities. Not all the time will the Ukrainians watch the government turn their country into vassals. We're demanding the restoration of the state-owned Radio Broadcasting Center in Bloraware. The Ukrainian People's Party demands that the national radio broadcasts be resumed on long and medium waves, and that the Ukrainian producer of cultural products be supported. We need to put the trade in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u189	You're an ass. Get ready, Gnatkewicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u190	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! "Party of the United Left", Hennadi Zadirko, Mikolayevščina. In my speech, I would like to say that this week we passed the Law on Seaports. It is unfortunate that the Supreme Council voted in favour of this shameful law. Because this law is actually another blow to the state budget of Ukraine. In times when the minister of transportation and communication was Joseph of Wynski, we calculated how much he paid taxes to the state - owned enterprise and how much he paid taxes or terminals, or public seaports, or some commercial transportation enterprise, it was calculated that, in fact, the non - state companies paid taxes to the state budget three times less. So actually this law is going to lead to the industry, the industry that gave the state more than two billion dollars last year for the added value, actually going to be destroyed. But I would also like to look at what I have to say and ask the Attorney General of Ukraine about what, unfortunately, this policy of double standards leads to what. permissiveness causes city councils, such as Santa Claus, to take a decision on the issue of land by the Mikolai District Council for the sale of land at no cost. In fact, the point is that the city budget for the sale of this land, the Home Center company, which is now going to belong to a supermarket, one of the Mikolai supermarkets, the city budget will be under 16 million dollars. This is money that could be used to solve the very and very many problems of the city of Mikolayeva. And at the beginning of April, the city council adopted this decision, but the public of the city, the experts promptly responded to such a bold decision, analyzed it, and claimed that the price of the square metre of the land in question was low, at least, to several times the value. Therefore, in the process of preparing documents for sale, articles 4 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation Activities in Ukraine were violated. Articles 11 and 14 of the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act were also violated. As found in the document study process, the review was carried out by the assessor’s sister, who conducted the expert’s assessment of the land area, while the assessor was able to contact the expert board of a public organization. That's why I'm asking the Attorney General of Ukraine to study these facts carefully, and the Attorney General's Office has done everything possible to ensure that the money belonging to the city community of Mikolayeva comes to the city budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u191	Yes, please, Gnatkevich. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u192	Yuri Gnatkevitch, Timoshenko's Yulia Block - Fatherland. Dear Ukrainians, now only lazy and blind can't see or hear that we don't have a judicial system today. It's destroyed by today's regime. I recently had the opportunity to repeat three times the famous Vladimir Illich Lenin’s phrase about the criteria for learning the truth three times over a month. He said, "From living insight to abstract thinking and from it to practice is such a theoretical way of knowing the truth***." So this year I went to and from the past to great court practice. In the town of Radivilov, there was a man in my district who came to the first facility, the second facility, and he came to me and said, "Juriy Vasilovich, I didn't do it. I've been wrongly convicted and I'll prove it." And I did. The Court of Cassation cancelled. Tell me, what did the first and second courts of the establishment do then? What kind of judge is that, I ask? We came 15 numbers to the court of cassation here, 27 deputies came, came to church, like a holiday. Now we're going to have to deal with one of the lawyers of the Yulia trial, Timoshenko. A young prosecutor stands up, and regardless of the law, at the request of lawyers, to the letter of Julius Timoshenko that she does not want to be present, they do not move until June 26. I survived three trials myself. This is the trial of Julia Timoshenko last summer, where we, many deputies, were present. This is when my assistant was tried in Simferopol for murder, which he, I assure you, did not do! Finally, my family suffered a small tragedy. I saw we were gone! I say it impartially. I've carried out all the decisions of the courts. It's not a case. It's a monster! It's a crime! You know, I think our femida is today, and instead of the scales, it's holding the cubes where they put the money. It seems to me that her blindfold is transparent, but she is not there at all. I don't think that femida wears anything that our women wear. I'll remind you of the judge's oath. They swear objectively, impartially, impartially, independently, justly to exercise justice, subjecting themselves to the law. Honest, conscientiously carrying out duties, high moral principles! By the way, I'd like to clear the words "your honor." Julia Volodymyrna spoke and did not get up. And she didn't want to call Kiriev your honor. Because she thought she was being judged by the Mafia, not by Kiriev. She had the right to act that way, to think that way. That's what the whole nation thinks, by the way. And yet, they didn't throw it out on my offer, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! I refer to the judges. What I want is to get in the courts' rooms the text of the oath in the court that they're taking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u193	A helmet. Well, for being obsessive, that's easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u194	Dmitry Schlemko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Respectable compatriots! During the days of the Supreme Court’s examination of the cassation in the case of Yulia Timoshenko, he moved the date of the next trial until June 26. The reasons for this, I think, are a few. First. Procrastination of the case will also lead to a suspension of the case by the European Court of Human Rights. Because, as ex-judge Eurosud said recently, she is undoubtedly a winner. As President Janukovic himself stated that Julia Timoshenko had been condemned under the old Criminal Code, and therefore there was no compliance with European standards. Secondly, it is impossible for the authorities to comply with the Paris requirement for the mandatory participation of Yulia Timoshenko in the electoral process to the Ukrainian Parliament. Thirdly, to defeat the leaders of European countries, world politicians against their unwillingness to participate in the Euro-2012 and appeals to the Battle of the Championship. And fourthly, to suspend, in the opinion of the authorities, the imposition of punitive sanctions against the undemocratic regime of Yanukovic, a series of campaigns by the oligarchs of the Party of Regions, officials responsible for serious violations of human rights and repression against the political position. This pause may delay the political death of the authorities for a time, but no more. They put Julia Timoshenko in jail for playing, and they tortured innocent people for nothing. I remind everyone that the European gas formula puts Ukraine on one plane with other states regarding its independence from Russia. In order to serve the Ukrainians, there is enough of their own gas, and oligarchs with their billions of assets, such as their owners, should make arrangements with the Russians. There is no doubt that Julia Timoshenko will leave the colony soon. It will soon be replaced by the current Prime Minister, Mikola Azarov. It's not my imagination, but the current Head of Government, Mikola Janovic, in Brussels, said that he knew that signing the Kharkiv Accords with Russia did not guarantee our country a $100 gas cost per thousand cubes. I mean. A senior government official approved the agreement, knowing in advance that it would not be implemented and that Ukraine would suffer losses from such a political contract. That is what results from the revelation of Azar. What about May 16th, speaking at the Conference of Ukraine-EU, what the future, in the walls of the European Parliament, I quote. "In fact there was no reduction in the price of gas. It was a rental fee for the Black Sea fleet, it was a windfall." I'll remind all Ukrainians if anyone forgets that the price of such a break is an additional 25 years in the territory of Ukraine of a foreign military base not very friendly to us. So Mr. Azarov himself admitted that it was a wrong political decision that caused irreparable harm to strategic national interests. This is no longer intended, but a real article of the new Criminal Code for many years in prison. What a wise Ukrainian people have the appropriate saying: "Don't dig another one, for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u195	Yes, Baby. Well, Kemenash.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u196	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. As a result of the poor economic activity of today’s government, Ukraine is falling into a debt gap. At the beginning of this year, our country has half a billion debts. This represents a 10 - percent increase in these liabilities than compared to 2010. Last year we paid off 70 billion dollars of government funds. To compare, this is more than financing education, medicine, culture, sports, and physical culture combined. So we're paying for the money that we have to go to education, to medicine, to culture, we're paying them off in debt. This year the government has planned to pay off 100 billion dollars of debt. We're told that we don't have the money to pay pensions, to increase our pensions, to increase our salaries, to maintain schools, hospitals, clubs, to repair our roads, but we're spending 100 billion dollars on debt payments, and we're still going to have to borrow that much. And where does that money go? They go to meals, they go to current expenses instead of creating jobs, instead of restoring national production, instead of providing millions of Ukrainians with jobs and decent wages. The government eats them, the government flies before the elections, they borrow 100 billion dollars to kind of pay off a thousand deposits, and then our grandkids, our great-grandkids will return that money. The radical party I lead suggests that we stop this shameful policy that is being pursued by today’s government. We suggest first of all that we take steps to restore national production. To do that, we say, "You need to restrict access to the country so that our products can be sold." We suggest that we radically reduce the taxes that today, three skins, are ripping people off of these taxes. We suggest that we radically confiscate loans that no family today can borrow less than 30 percent. In order to save the budget, we propose to reduce the number of civil servants, starting with the Supreme Council, where to leave 200 deputies and cut down on everyone else. We suggest that pensioners be banned from working in power, starting with the President, the head of government, and ending with lower-level managers, and allowing young people to work. We offer a series of measures that will enable people to gain employment, pay, and a future worth living. But the main guarantee of solving the country's problems is a change in today's anti-Ukrainian power that destroys a country that does not allow people to live and work with dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u197	Stones, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u198	Alexander Kemenyash, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I'm going to talk about the price of gas, but not the price or the gas that gets thrown into jail and thrown into military bases. I'm going to talk about the price of gas for the population, especially for the population of the mountains. Today in Ukraine, this method of calculation is in place when the price for the following year is based on the consumption of gas from the past. The main goal is to force Ukrainians to use blue fuels economically. Fixed consumption standards, defined categories. In fact, I was never able to find any basis for what officials were guided by, setting such standards. But the approach seems only fair at first sight. A variety of family members, depending on income, social status, are trying to balance benefits and subsidies. But there are things that do not depend on our desire with you. The current legislation and legislation in force when the natural gas prices used for the needs of the population are approved do not in any way take into account climate characteristics, especially temperature factors. Because depending on the region of Ukraine, the need to use natural gas to heat buildings varies considerably, and consumption standards are set for all. I would like to remind you that for people who have mountain status, one of the defining criteria is the harsh climate conditions. But this feature is in no way taken into account when setting standards for natural gas consumption for people living there. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I have been constantly approached by residents of the Carpathians, especially mountain areas, with complaints that because of the extremely low temperatures of the past winter, they were forced to use more gas to preserve their own health. As a result, the vast majority of the population are at risk of being transferred to another category. That is, in addition to paying for the gas they have consumed, they will have to pay a higher price the following year, and they will have to make a recalculation in the last year. This question is not only relevant to the inhabitants of the Carpathians. Mountain plains are located in many areas of Ukraine. Moreover, the climate in the northern regions of our country is much different from the southern ones. It's not hard to keep track of these differences: temperature observations take place all year round. It may be appropriate to take into account the severity of the temperature factor when determining the amount of gas consumed each year during the heating season, and then determine whether to pour gas for additional comfort or to survive. I feel that it is necessary to draw the attention of the government to the circumstances and to take appropriate measures to establish social justice. The MP's request for this matter has already been sent to me by the Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-18-m0.u199	Thank you. We're finally done. Let me remind you that in accordance with the calendar work plan for the 10th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the next plenary session will be held on Tuesday, May 22, at 10 a.m. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
