ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system and invite the national deputies to the session room. [[16:00:21]] They registered in the 338 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we need to consider a number of issues on which we decided in the morning to include them in the agenda. Then there are the following questions that need our special attention. A draft decree on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for Pedagogical Workers of General Education, Vocational Technical, Preschool and Non-School Education Institutions is being announced. The project is given to all of you. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. We're going to ask Stepan Dawimuk to brief us for a few minutes, because there are certain clarifications that we need to make right now, and we're going to vote on this decision. Please, Stepan Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 1 January 2007, the annual Prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was established for teachers of general education, vocational engineering, pre-school and extra-school institutions, and the Regulations on the annual Prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were approved. [[No.131]] [[of September 14, 2006]] The award was awarded three times in 2008, 2010 and 2011. A total of 87 bonuses were awarded. In accordance with the Regulations on the Annual Prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Science and Education to the Regional Councils of the deputies of Kiev, Sevastopol City Councils, it was proposed to conduct a procedure for the nomination and approval of candidates for the annual prize and the referral of relevant materials to the committee. The Committee on Science and Education received a submission from all the district councils, except Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk, and Ravensk, which fully correspond to the Annual Prize Regulation. I have to stress that too. The district council presented Vlasenka Vitalia Mikolaiovich, director of the 28th Zaporozhye High School, who died tragically in a car accident in the summer. So in the resolution after the name "Vlasenko" in parentheses add the word "death." The 2012 financial year of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides for the payment of the prize’s monetary share. Please support the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that Vlasenka Vitalia Mikolaiovich, who died tragically, add "death." And after the name of Voroný Viktor Ivanovich, director of Sevastopol High School, number 5 of the name of the Forest of Ukraine with Russian and Ukrainian languages, the teaching of the Sevastopol City Council and the deletion of the "Autonomous Republic of Crimea". Because Sevastopol is not part of the peninsula. And with these clarifications in mind, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, pre-school and extra-school educational institutions. Please vote. What are we here to discuss? Do you know these people? The committee has proposed that we trust the committee and the district councils. Please calm down. Vote better. [[16:04:25]] For 255 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of distribution agreements is being tabled. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. [[16:05:00]] For 216 Decision taken. Alexy Plotnikov will be speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u4	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 18 September 2012 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the implementation of the distribution agreements submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Harlim. [[Registration number 11213, according to September 14, 2012]] According to the author, the bill aims to improve the effectiveness of private investment in the Ukrainian mining sector by improving legislation on distribution agreements and related areas. To provide a more favourable investment climate in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion of September 17th this year, made comments and proposals to the bill and considered it appropriate to return it for further work. At the same time, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the implementation of the distribution agreements submitted by the national deputy Harlimov, to be adopted in the first reading and on a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u5	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, if we don't have to discuss this matter, we'll vote if we don't have to. Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction. Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u6	Yuri Hanustak. Ladies and gentlemen! So I realized, this is a law so that an investor can dictate to the state his requirements. And it makes life easier for a pure investor, while there's a whole bunch of things when there isn't. Well, the state is getting worse. Look, first of all, there's no need for tendering. That is, how does it mean to determine the circle that can gain proper access to our resources, natural resources, no longer have to be done on competitive grounds. Next. Now it can even be done by a natural person, an entrepreneur. For the audience, I'm going to remind them that, basically, then a simplified tax system is simplified, and in this case, no taxes are essentially not paid. So those natural persons who trade there in markets and those who extract solar gas are actually treated in the same category of taxpayers. Then, look, if you had to agree with the local authorities earlier on land use issues, it's now very interesting to say, "If there's no other investment contracts." So somewhere in the Ministry, we agreed with investors that we're giving you land even in utility property, they wrote it in a contract, and the authorities of local government have made it known. So I ask the question: What about the Constitution, and what about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u7	Thank you. Fedun, please. He's refusing. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill should be returned to work. A proposal is put to the vote in accordance with the Adoption Rules on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of product distribution agreements. [[Registration number 11213]] Please vote. [[16:09:46]] For 233 Dear National Deputies, the committee, taking into account the importance of this bill, and taking into account the critical remarks that our colleague Yuri Hanustzak has just made, requests that he be instructed to prepare this issue for the second reading under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:10:19]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act on the State Land Bank is being reviewed. [[Registration number 11202]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:10:54]] For 210 Decision Adopted The reporter is Igor Prassolov. The Coroner is the head of the Vitaly Homutinnik Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u8	Honourable President, distinguished People's Deputies, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by order of In July 2012, the number 609 was established by a public shareholders company called the State Land Bank, with a statutory capital of 120 million grevens. On 6 September 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act “On Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine Concerning the Delimitation of Lands of State and Communal Property”. The establishment of a land bank to ensure its operation, taking into account these particulars, requires changes in banking legislation. The adoption of the bill would harmonize the special legislation on banks and banking with the land market law in order to establish the activities of the State's land bank. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill on first reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u9	Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u10	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered the bill. Indeed, in view of the adoption on 6 September of the Law amending certain legislative acts relating to the delimitation of state and municipal property and also of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers on the creation of a state-owned land bank on 2 July this year, it is necessary to improve the legislation on the bank and banking activities, namely, to provide for the possibility of the formation of a statutory fund not only by means of money, as stated in the Law on Banking and Banking, and to add the possibility of establishing a statutory fund in the form of land. That's the first one. And the second position is to enable a personal, let's say, status with its specifics so that the National Bank can issue a license to do the work, taking into account the specificities of the State Land Bank itself. Thank you for your attention. The committee decided to recommend the law in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u11	Yes, thank you, too. Please sign up for the speech, your honors. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Sergey Sass, "BUT" faction. Next is Michael Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! What can be said about the law? The point is that concerts that began this morning continue. The point is that the law must be brought to a law that has not yet taken effect and has only been adopted by the Supreme Council this morning. Isn't that absurd? Well, it's probably an absurdity from the point of view of the legislative technique, the legislative procedure. But I want to focus on something else. It says in this law that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has the right to form statutory capital of the State Land Bank on the basis of monetary contributions and contributions in the form of land. That's contrary to the Ukrainian Banking and Banking Act, we've already talked about that. This was highlighted by the legal authorities when the Law on Amendments and Supplements to certain Ukrainian laws on the Distinguishing of State and Municipal Property was considered. But can't you see the naked eye? Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you, Adam Ivanovich, you in the Presidency today, affect many things. Like you, and you're against the land of government property, but the mechanism that's set up here opens up a direct gateway to abuse, a direct way to get the land of government property, agricultural land through this mechanism into private hands. This law does not solve the issue of land relations. So our faction will not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u13	Thank you, too. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. The right to speak is given by Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be by Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been handed over the statute of this bank. Among other things, what we're talking about in this charter is not exactly what we're talking about, because it's just a universal commercial bank that forms its statute exclusively with money, and it's not an agricultural bank. It's a regular credit institution. So I think for a bank like I was given a statute that approved the Cabinet of Ministers, these changes are not necessary. Because it's a simple bank that can operate under the Banking and Banking Act. Now essentially a legislative initiative. If the author wants to resolve the issue of statutory capital formation, not on the basis of money, but on the basis of land, it is necessary to amend article 7 rather than article 32 of the Banking and Banking Act, which forms the mechanism for the formation of statutory capital. And when we accept it in the second reading, I think we will not be able to make any adjustments to this article. Because the author didn't remember her. Now it applies essentially to the land bank itself. Although I haven't yet seen what we're talking about a land bank. I would like to remind you that in 2011 the Earth Code was adopted, the standard that was required in the six-month period to pass a special law on land, in the parentheses of a mortgage bank, was important. It's been almost 10 years, and we haven't made this special law. Therefore, it was a special law that needed to be adopted and considered today. And then to submit to the Banking and Banking Act. As to the essence of European land bank practice. This practice has been practiced since the late 19th century. In Europe, they refused to create similar land banks. In exchange, modern foundations came, where the state accumulated and operated the relevant land resources. So I think we should take this path. The way the land bank is going to do it, let me tell you, the State Land Bank has the right to operate with land and property rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u16	This function that we're voting on today with regard to ground operations is not in the bank's charter. So I think I need to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u17	Thank you. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u18	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Those stochanovic methods with which we form a legislative field that will allow us to sell agricultural land are surprising to everyone both inside and outside the session hall. We see that the haste with which these mechanisms are created leads to the fact that even the articles we point out wrongly in the formation of the statutory fund of this bank. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask that we come to our senses and in a calm environment, if necessary, form a legislative field. We can't even imagine today what it would be like to be a land bank. If this land bank is the owner of the land, went to the land bank to do the monitoring, you can take credit for what there are questions, underwater stones, and it will guarantee in some way, well, you can sort of agree. But when the land bank, its statutory capital, is formed at the expense of land, it will sell and operate equipment with land. But it's all fantasy, because we don't see any serious documents today. And my colleague Argewittin was very convincing about it. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company, after reviewing the bill, will not vote in favour of the bill. We do not want such an unfair way of violating the Constitution, in violation of all the regulations today, to form a legislative field in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u19	Yes, Fedun. He's refusing. Question completed. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a committee to adopt the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Banking and Banking Act on the National Land Bank of Ukraine. [[Registration number 11202]] Please vote. [[16:21:13]] For 235 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is being announced for consideration. [[on property management]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:21:49]] For 228 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Miroshnichenko. The reporter is Vasil Demchischen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. [[Registration number 11174]] The drafting of the bill is called for the need to resolve the management of the assets of the President of Ukraine's representative in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the proper material and technical provision of its activities. The bill proposes to address the issue of ownership of the Representation, by amending article 15 of the draft Law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, by establishing that the management of property and the technical and material security of the Representation activities are carried out in accordance with the established legislation of the subject of public property administration, i.e. the body that provides for the activities of the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this is a technical amendment to Article 15, so there is a proposal to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. And I'd like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u21	Yes, thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Vasil Vasilovitch Demčishen is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, considered a bill amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, submitted and defined by President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovič of Ukraine as urgent. [[on property management]] [[Registration number 11174]] The proposed bill proposes to present part two of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in a new edition, stating that the management of property and material and technical security of the activities of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is carried out by a body that ensures the activities of the President of Ukraine. The committee supported the idea of legal settlement in the area of law relations. Yes, according to article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Ukrainian President's Representation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is a State body established in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine with the aim of contributing to the execution in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of powers imposed on the President of Ukraine, but not subject to the administration of public property. This authority is not authorized to provide for the administration of state property laws. Members of the committee noted that the legal basis for the administration of public property by entities and their authority over the administration of these objects were laid down in the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis, taking into account the comments made. The committee recommends the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u23	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u24	Draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on the Representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, submitted by the President of Ukraine, RA [[on property management]] As a result of considering it in the first reading, accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u25	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, there's a warning about this position, it's extremely short. Please sign up. Yes, please, Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u26	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine Clearly, this is a technical regulation that allows the USSR to perform its functions with regard to the President's credentials in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, because there are, in fact, some disagreements. But what I want to say is that even such technical remedies come to a vote in Parliament. And what is happening today with the ability to form an inheritance of Ukrainian citizens, especially in the countryside, is unfortunately not coming. There was a mob in Parliament that somehow made up the idea that those who make up an inheritance had extra money, and for a house or a small piece of land today, between 3,4 and 9,000 dollars had to be paid in the form of an inheritance. Where did the money come from, no one asked. The state has not invested any money in this property because this property has been formed, already paid out of wages, and people have paid taxes, and in fact there is nothing more in Ukrainian citizens. It seems to me that along with such bills that make it easier for the President to work, we should mention the Ukrainian citizens who are now alone with the problem of creating an inheritance and who are also being robbed of money. So the suggestion, I think, is that until the question is removed by inheritance and we don't return to this old routine, when the head of the village council for the symbolic fee can do it himself, it's impossible to vote on such bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u27	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u28	Mrs. Ola Bodnar knows this question better, please tell her.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u29	Olga Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u30	Olga Bodnar, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Fatherland. I'm, you know, my esteemed colleagues, impressed by the operational activity of my committee, which was due to meet at 9:30, and I was on the floor at 9:25, and it turns out that the committee meeting had already stopped. I, the first deputy chairman of the committee, did not arrive at 9:30, because at 9:25 a.m., the decision was already made and without me. It's not enough that these questions that you're looking at right now are the kind of subcommittee that should be looking at it first. I'm smoking this subcommittee, I can tell you, this subcommittee didn't consider this question. Now, I want to tell you more. This is the impression that today special opposition is being made so that the opposition cannot ask any questions to the authorities or to the government. As Ukraine’s national deputy on Friday, I cannot and cannot talk to the current authorities about why agriculture is thus lost because of their support. I don't know. Now let's talk about Crimea. More than 10 years since the adoption of the Law on the Representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, there have been no problems in the area of property management in representation. All of a sudden, there's the idea of handing over ownership, the material and technical provision of the activity of a representative of a public property management entity, in other words the DUSI. The explanatory note to the bill states that this is necessary to address issues such as the write-off of public property, their free transfer in accordance with the envisaged legislation, and the resolution of other matters relating to the use of public property in the balance of representation. I can only treat this one way: it is much more convenient to transfer the land and property of Crimea into the same hands. I can't tell you anything more about this question because there's no interest in the people, there's no interest in the state, there's the interests of certain structures and certain clans of the present government. Julia Timoshenko's block, the Fatherland faction, will not vote for this nonsense and anti-government position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, relatively, actually, the proposals that were made by Mikli Dmitrovich. We have a draft law on simplifying the procedure and restoring the right of the village council when they formed an inheritance. Today, the village council can only form a will, seal it, and at a minimum of 0.05 percent. But. In order to obtain help on the evaluation of this house, it is necessary to pay from seven to ten thousand. There's a bill. So I ask that the appropriate committee to which it is directed prepare for consideration by October 2nd, because the cry for this reason, fair indignation of the people, has no limits. People say they were building at their own expense, the state wasn't helping them, and now they have to pay up to 10,000, and it's not worth 10,000. It's a group of savvy businesses that did it. I can tell which faction they were part of if necessary. So let's not talk about this right now. But you must make a second decision. I ask you to agree to that and to make it a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now it's about this law. Dear colleagues, the President's representation in Crimea has nothing but chairs on which they sit. It has nothing to do with the land or the real estate or everything else, so before we talk about it, we just have to figure it out. And this is, in this law, a formal, in fact, a decision. Therefore, a proposal is put to the vote. I'd like to support you then. There's nothing there to complement and change. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's about acceptance. Well, there isn't. Well, what can be added? Please. From the faction there was an act, no one objected. [[B in m in s a l in]] A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[11174]] Please vote. [[16:32:53]] For 264 Decision taken. Well, I'm voting on the proposal to prepare for a reduced procedure for second reading. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:33:19]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are now to consider a draft of the Act amending section XXI, paragraph 4, of the Customs Code on Tax Exemption for Goods Imported for Customs. Please don’t rush, don’t hurry to report! which are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine as part of the implementation of projects on the basis of international technical assistance provided in accordance with valid international agreements, the initiative of the Great Eight countries of the Global Partnership against the Distribution of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction. [[application]] It's come to the point that the Cabinet of Ministers is writing what they're going to report. Well, there's a representative from Kabmin, the head of the department. I think we'll wait until the Deputy Minister arrives. And let's respect each other. A draft decree on the 100th anniversary of Victor Yvchenk's birth is being announced. Dear colleagues, the draft decree made by Vladimir Yavorowski is agreed. Let's take it. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal to adopt the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the 100th anniversary of Victor Yvchenk's birth. [[Registration number 11143]] Please vote. [[16:34:58]] For 270. Decision taken. I'll take the order. Now it's a draft decree to mark the 80th anniversary of Michael Tucker's birth, a well-known man. So the suggestion is to back you up and make a decision. [[Registration number 11144]] Please vote. [[16:35:42]] For 271 I'll take the order. And, honourable colleagues, so as not to go back to the draft regulations on this subject, request the adoption of the draft Decree as a decree to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the birth twice of the Hero of the Socialist Work of Mary Haritonovna Savchenko. You have a draft decision on this point. I'm voting on this proposal, registration number 10659. Please vote. [[16:36:26]] For 265 I'll take the order. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 on the increase in the cost of wages for employees of state-owned industrial enterprises is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 11222]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[16:37:06]] For 233 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Igor Popović, co-rapporteur, the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs Vladislav Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u32	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! A draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2012 to increase the cost of wages for employees of coal companies in the amount of 2.1 billion dollars is being considered. In order to carry out the tasks of the President and the Government of Ukraine to reduce the dependence of the Ukrainian economy on imported energy and, above all, Russian natural gas, Ukraine's coal miners in the second year in a row increase the production volume of coal, providing full-scale heat to domestic coal products. Its production is expected to be at least 85 million tons compared to 82 million tons this year in 2011. At the same time, coal companies are raising wages for workers in the field to six months behind the statutory level. According to the Ministry's accounts by the end of the year, it is necessary to increase expenditure on the budgeted programme by 2.1 billion dollars, which, by the way, corresponds to our previous accounts for the establishment of the Budget for 2012. The adoption of the bill will allow for increased coal production, adequate accumulation of coal at thermal power plants for permanent operation during the winter period, and the provision of a percentage of wage payments to miners and the guarantee of social stability in mining teams. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u33	Thank you, too. Vladislav Lukev, First Deputy Head of the Committee. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Affairs today discussed the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on State Budget 2012 under registration 11222. The bill provides for an increase of €2 billion per 100 million in the expenditure of the State Budget General Fund for the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry under budget programme 1101110 "State support for coal-based enterprises to partially cover the costs and costs of finished coal production". Such expenses are proposed for a reduction in the same amount of costs for the acquisition of shares by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. So the bill's position is balanced by the state budget. At the same time, it should be noted that the Supreme Council adopted laws on 6 September 2012 amending the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012 Act, including the State Budget. Then, in order to ensure budgetary balance, it will need to clarify the summary of the expenditure of the State budget in the text of the bill and its appendix, taking into account the bills considered and adopted. Taking into account the above, the committee adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill with registration number 112222 as a result of the first reading, the adoption of a bill as a basis, and generally as a law. Taking into account the need to clarify the summary of government budget expenditure in the text of the bill and the appendix to the bill. Taking into account the analogous bills that the Supreme Council has considered and adopted on 6 September of this year. In case of adoption of the bill, the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u35	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u36	In the event of the adoption of the bill, the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary editorial and technical clarifications to the text and to the appendix of the second bill, in relation to the adoption by the Committee of Decisions concerning the bill. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u37	Thank you, too. If anyone insists on discussing it, please sign in. Sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u38	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u39	Mikola Catherinechuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u40	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". You know, when it comes to an increase of 2 billion dollars by one of, let's say, state programs, I always have a question. Here, the bill says that there is an increase in wages for employees of coal companies. I didn't get it from the show. A minister and a committee reporter, and how much will the miner's salary go? Why don't they talk about it? Will the money reach the miner? How will they respond? How much is that going to be? And I would insist, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we give the floor to the Lukyanov Committee, that he say that the people who hear us now understand that the state budget of Ukraine is interested in raising the wages of miners and that it will be made for this amount, at some point in time. And that would probably be an honest answer to the question of supporting the coal industry by the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u41	Yes. No, no, you come up and hand it over. You already have. No, no, you'll come and tell me, you've already spoken. We do. Yes, Jaroslav Suhi and then Hanustak. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, without denying that miners have a high salary, because it's a deduction, a tax on the income of individuals for local budgets, it's a deduction of the only social contribution. I would also like to point out that this bill generates budgetary injustice. The state-owned industries are great, but let me remind you, here in this rostrum I introduced a bill on the issue of a loan on the reverse basis of an interestless 50 million dollars for the Paris-based firm Iskra. Before the Donessy Topaz, such money had been allocated, "Iscree" had not been allocated. Today, 15 million people are to blame for the state-owned radio device company in Zaporozhye. So why don't we put help in here, it's on pay. I'm talking about payroll debt. We haven't solved all the debt problems on wages, it's already turned by one billion, and we're going to spend two billion extra dollars on coal miners. I think it's unfair.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u43	Yuri Hanustak, please. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u44	Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Well, first of all, we've been misled by our balance. In fact, the project foresees an increase in the budget deficit, and think about it for two billion and a hundred million. Two billion hundred million. This, while local budgets are not even enough to pay in general, is given to the East. And this is, for example, those words that say: "We feed all of Ukraine." These are two areas that seem to be. In fact, spending in these areas is much more than income. This time. The other one. Under that name, you can't accept the project, because it has to be, it has to be about increasing subsidies, as reported. So you can't adopt this bill at the same time in both the first and the second readings. And I'm paying attention to the workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u45	Thank you. Your honor, Alexander Ephraim, you have already spoken. Then there's Bully. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, there would be no last statement, I would not be asked to go to the rostrum. But in fact, justice must be done. If you don't know, don't talk. And if you speak from the rostrum, confirm with specifics. Just in case, those two areas that you've been neglecting here give 30 percent of our nation's domestic product. Therefore, respect should be given to those who live in these areas. And as for the miners, you come to us in the area, I'll drop you down there for at least half an hour, and your point of view will turn completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u47	Gennady Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Gennady Bullying, Santa Claus. In fact, it is clear to everyone that today is a very, very difficult job in miners. But tell me, please, is this coal worth nothing? What, there's no economy? It is clear that everyone today is meeting in the village with voters who complain about the high cost of coal. So there's no basic economy? Coal production is increasing, and what, are we going to increase subsidies every year? One day it looks very strange. And there's more. For example, in Santa Claus, shipbuilding enterprises, including state enterprises, are guilty of hundreds of millions of dollars and are not going to return them. And, indeed, I agree with my colleague Suhim that, indeed, this question would have to be solved in a complex way. If we're talking about increasing the wages of miners, we need to understand how much it's going to increase. If we want to add some help to Ukraine’s economy, we need to do so in a complex, understandable, logical and correct way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. If the Cabinet of Ministers calls on the Supreme Council to anticipate these costs, we should help, however, as do other businesses, organizations, and agencies that have problems with wages. So, come on, dear fellows, we'll take you with us with appropriate precision, as the rapporteur said, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2012. [[on the increase in wage costs for employees of coal-fired enterprises]] [[Registration number 11222]] Please vote in favour of the adoption of the law. For the adoption of the law. What could be another reading, please! Well, I understand that the miners came here, and then we're going to take him in as soon as we can. [[16:49:26]] For 261 Decision taken. I point out to the Cabinet that the name of the law needs to be formulated more correctly, as the national MPs rightly say. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on bankruptcy has been announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10707]] The committee suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure, which is persistent. And I'm putting it to a vote. [[16:50:08]] For 226 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Justice Minister Dmitry Voron, co-rapporteur, Vice-President of the Committee of Jury Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u50	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law is designed to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine and provides for the delimitation of the powers of creditors' assemblies and creditors' committee at all stages of bankruptcy; a mandatory assessment of the property of enterprises with a share of state ownership; a sale of the debtor's property solely through auction; a re-definition of the appointment of the owner of the property with the application of the automated system; an introduction of official publication of the bankruptcy information on the Supreme Court's website at the same time as the acquisition of the law; an improvement of the section on the activities of the arbitrators; an exemption from the payment of the public body's payments for bankruptcy as a participant in the bankruptcy case. The adoption of the project will help to improve procedures for the recovery or recognition of the debtor's ability to pay or bankruptcy, the admission to arbitration and the functions of self-regulatory arbitration authorities and many other very useful things. The government's project agrees with the Supreme Economic Court. The project has been worked out by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, and it has been concluded that it can be accepted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u51	Thank you, too. I invite Vice-President of the Economic Policy Committee Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyeva to announce the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, the bill was considered at a meeting of the Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on first reading. Unfortunately, I would like to remind you that we have a history of reviewing the Bankruptcy Act. Earlier this year, an ad hoc working group was established at the initiative of the Administration of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, which included not only representatives of the two institutions, but also our people's deputies, representatives of the High Economic Court and IMF, including. And the Bankruptcy Act was drafted. This Bankruptcy Act has satisfied all these organizations, including the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which provides a new bill here. Regrettably, the bill is now proposed to be amended by 75 letters. Some of them can, may have revenge and may be interesting, but some of them, I believe, are totally inconsistent with the requirements of legislation and should be corrected before second reading, such as taking into account all bankruptcy cases and information on bankruptcy cases. from the courts are transferred to this State Department for Bankruptcy. That doesn't make any sense to anyone. I don't understand either, because all bankruptcy cases are in the courts, and all of a sudden it's in a different place. Everyone's gonna have to run, check. Two organizations are made to keep from missing a bankruptcy case. Or, for example, the moment proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers by this bill: it is to make the State of bankruptcy a mandatory party to all bankruptcy cases with all procedural rights, whether there is a share of the State or not. Imagine the creditors meeting, deciding the issues, and there is another person who can reverse their decision. Therefore, it is suggested that the first reading should be adopted and that the second reading should be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Span's Dmitri. He's refusing? He's refusing. You're a disgrace then. There's Hanusztak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u54	I am. Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Ladies and gentlemen, well, by the way, it's not just about the radio audience, it's about my colleagues in the hall who don't feel the idiosyncrasis of that call. So the project is very difficult. In general, he does not solve the questions for which he is asked, and sometimes even confuses. For example, it's very simple: the recovery plan is considered approved if it's supported at a meeting of creditors' assemblies over half of the votes of creditors. Well, it used to be a committee of creditors. A committee of creditors is known to be formed by the amount of loans that there is. Now look. If it's a creditor's fundraiser, there could be creditors who give one penny, they have a loan accordingly, a debt of bankruptcy, and some of them a million. And it turns out that most of the physical presence of creditors -- it's not quite right -- it's confusing even the situation that is. And I would still like the Cabinet of Ministers to present a project that is, well, literately done, because so many observations, that, well, that means that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers was really sloppy, which, in principle, is based on the principle of the formation of those people who came to the Cabinet of Ministers today. So they're not professionals, and they're again viewers who can't do normal documents. So let's not take it, but let's start with a quality project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. There is a proposal to adopt the bill as a basis for voting. [[Registration number 10707]] Please vote. [[16:57:11]] For 256 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, is being announced for consideration. [[concerning participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War]] [[Registration number 11096]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:57:48]] For 227 Decision taken. Rapporteur – acting as First Deputy Minister of Social Policy Shambor Mikola Ivanovich, co-rapporteur – head of the committee Valeriy Suškević. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was designed to implement the President's decree on measures to commemorate the 67th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945 and to meet with representatives of veteran social organizations. The bill provides for the extension of the benefits provided for the disabled in the 1st group, the participants in the fighting and the disabled 2nd and the 3rd groups of the Great Homeland War 1941-1945, who were 85 years old. The bill will require additional spending from the government budget, about 300 million dollars a year. The bill is in agreement with all ministries. In view of the need for additional funds, the bill is expected to take effect on January 1, 2013. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valerius Suškević, microphone, head of committee
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u58	Thank you. Head of the Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Suškević At its meeting on September 18, the committee considered this bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As has already been said, it is aimed at strengthening the social protection of the disabled of war II and the third group and participants in the hostilities of the Great War of 1941-1945, and I emphasize the age of 85. And in fact, by giving the same benefits that are provided for the disabled of the First Group of the Great National War. In fact, it is proposed to raise the amount of pension increases or monthly life support or state social assistance paid instead of pension to 50 percent of the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs. And also to grant benefits for sanitation as much as for group I invalids, and benefits for housing and utilities. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council proposes to adopt a bill on the basis of some comments on the date of implementation of the bill. And I would also like to say that, at its meeting, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Supreme Council when adopting this bill in the first reading on the basis and as a whole. I think it's going to be a normal option that relates to the support of our veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a request: let's support our veterans and have this decision. Please sign in. Show me the names of the people's deputies. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Marina Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! I guess I had to vote right away. But, you see, there was some doubt. What doubts may there be? This is another social policy for the government and for the president. At first, we paid the disabled of the First Group, the women whose husbands had died and other categories. Now, you know, the budget is being reviewed towards increasing social pay. And what the government is now proposing is that those payments that were made to the people with disabilities in Group I extend to the people with disabilities in Group II and Group III, that's quite fair. So, what, 85 years? Let's figure it out. Those people who have fought and are disabled, they can't be less than 80 or 85 years old. I would very much like to see now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, when we vote in general, the position of all political forces. Since the opposition has not emerged at all in recent times, it does not vote for anything. It only provokes a vote. And when it comes to voting on social issues, I can officially say that the head of the subcommittee on the social standards of life that's been investigating this, in the last six months, there has been no opposition, nor has there been a social law vote. Even today, when you proposed, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a simple law that doesn't need further work, to vote in general, suddenly screams, says, "No, no! Let's draw on the second reading!" It's just a provocation! These people do not want our political power, not just our political power, but that the parliament, which has little to do, should adopt a number of social laws. Then blasphemy comes out when they say, and why is it one day, and why do they want to vote more? But you provoked yourself when you said on September 1st you wouldn't vote, you'd go to people. But you want us to sit in the hall, vote here, and we do. You came here, you wankers, you made a statement and you ran on to people to explain, ah, what a defender you are! I propose to pass the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u61	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Instead of Marina Perestenko. Next up will be Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u62	Thank you. The Communist faction, the head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm not afraid of that word, today, you and I are now looking at one of the most long-awaited drafts by veteran frontists, our parents who broke the backs of German fascism. I want to say that in my own time as head of the profile committee, and today as head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, I have repeatedly addressed the authorities with a proposal, with a similar proposal. And at the end of March 22, 2012, this situation appeared in the decree of the President of Ukraine, and now an appropriate bill. The logic behind adopting this bill is quite clear. In one trench there were those who fought against fascism, and the man who became disabled during the Great War of Homeland and who, fortunately, did not become disabled but paid her health an extremely high price for that victory. So it's perfectly logical to suggest to the profile committee, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, that we accept this document immediately on two readings. There's nothing to work on, because the President's Decree on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection is in place. But, dear fellows, I would like to draw attention to one negative fact. Now I have in my hands the conclusion of scientific expertise. I quote. "In view of the above, we do not consider the proposal to selectively increase the social protection of participants in combat, who are 85 years of age or older, among others equal to the status of persons." Ladies and gentlemen, this is about the warlords, the youngest of whom today is 86. Well, listen, is there a limit to any cynicism in this life? So, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u63	Yeah. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u64	I propose to support this bill as a basis and as a whole at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u65	Thank you. Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u66	Yuri Hanustak. Please pass on the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u67	Sergei Sas, please. Then Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." Of course, we bow our heads to those who have saved the world from the brown plague. We support the initiative to help those who have reached the age of 85. In fact, they are the youngest participants in combat. My father is a fighter, and today he is 85 years old. Dear colleagues, but these people, these people who have saved the world, have not lived for months, they live every day. This is very important to them. So, dear friends, I think we passed the two billion bill a few minutes ago, sent two billion to the other side. The point is, here's the calculation that the price of the question is less than 298 million dollars per month. And here, when a list of benefits is defined, there are many benefits that these people are no longer using. So this is actually much less than that. I'd ask respectable colleagues, considering that these people really live one day, these people are very old, and they need not only money, but attention to themselves. Despite the fact that there are some warnings from the scientific and expert administration, to adopt this law and to put it into effect not as of January 1, 2013, as proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, but to introduce it from October 1st. And commissioning the Cabinet of Ministers to make appropriate changes to the State Budget Act by redistributing certain transfers for that purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u69	Finish up, please. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u70	I said about transfers to be redistributed. Thank you for your attention. We're here to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u71	Thank you. I ask, fellow believers, for 85 years now the father of Sergei Sasa, to welcome him and to wish him good health, and he has every reason to be proud of his son! [[Applause]] Vladimir Karpuk, please, one minute. Then there's Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Indeed, this law should be put to the vote in the first reading and in general, for we are wasting our time in looking forward to the second reading. And by honoring these veterans, bowing their heads to their courage, and I want to repeat the words of Sergey Volodymyrovich, which is important to these people every day. But I point out that in the position of the President in order to improve the situation, the decrees were signed. March 22nd. It took the government up to six months to draft the bill. And really, every day for these people, a lot of people have gone away in six months, so we have to take it in first reading and in general without delaying the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u73	Gennady Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u74	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's Reforms for the Future. Our MPs will normally support this bill, but what they wanted to say. What really needs to be voted on today in general or, if this is not supported, can be used to advise Mr. Sass to start funding in October of this year. But I also wanted to say the following. To be honest, the law is very, very necessary, but. But it's not going to happen with this law that happened with the Children of War Act, other laws, social laws that were abolished by the 2012 budget. Today we can vote anything, but this money is going to be budgeted in 2013 -- it's a very, very big question. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, frankly, today we can take whatever we want. But the main thing is to finance 2013 and to be very and very vigilant about it. So it doesn't happen as children of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. And the State Budget project already has this amount in place, which is provided for in this bill. We need to adopt this law before the budget. That's why I'm voting on a proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis and for the whole of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[concerning participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War]] [[Registration number 11096]] Please vote. I put it to the vote as proposed by the government. [[17:11:28]] For 272 The law is passed. The factions, please. Please, I beg of you! Region Party – 190, "BUT – Fatherland" – 9, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 24, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-fractional – 10. Thank you, the law has been passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 4 of the Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Act on types of financial services. [[Registration number 11060]] The committee suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure, and I put this proposal to the vote. [[17:12:26]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is a member of the National Commission for Market and Financial Services, Andrew Litwin. The Coroner is the head of the Vitaly Homutinnik Committee. Pinchuck's gonna report it, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u76	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The legal regulation of the bill before you is to organize types of financial services that may be provided to consumers of such services. To this end, the bill is first proposed in article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets to codify the list of types of financial services that may be made available in accordance with the law and special laws that may be applicable in accordance with the law and special laws governing the provision of financial services. It's different. The draft law establishes that financial services provided by laws should be included in the listed list and that the provision of financial services that are not defined by this list should be prohibited. Third. Public authorities that regulate financial services markets, namely the National Bank, the National Securities and Stock Markets Commission and the National Commission, which regulates public financial services markets, are authorized to decide whether transactions belong to a particular type of financial service defined by law, or to define transactions as financial services that are permitted only if such services are included in the listed list. Dear National Deputies! The adoption of the proposed bill will allow for the establishment of legal mechanisms whereby the conduct of financial services activities is allowed only for types defined by law, in effect, to prevent the uncontrolled use of public funds and the misuse of funds involved in financial services markets beyond the limits of legal regulation and public regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u77	Thank you, too. The committee will report to Pinchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u78	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The bill clarifies and expands the list of financial services and also prohibits the provision of services that are not included in the list. Instead, government financial regulators are invited to allow decisions on the eligibility of certain financial transactions to certain types of financial services. The main scientific and expert office has made some valid comments and suggestions to the draft law that we will consider when preparing the project for second reading. The general conclusion of the board recommends that the document be adopted in the first reading. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend that the bill should be adopted on the basis of its further development to the second reading. Please support the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u79	Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Fedun, he's refusing. Arjovitin, please. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, if I read this bill carefully, I would, if I were to use the term of jurisprudence, as if it were worthless. Here's the argument why. The first argument is that when we want this bill to manage property, where non-residents have property rights, we want to say that these are financial assets or that these are financial services. Well, I think that's what someone who reads other laws carelessly did. At least this should not be included in the fourth article, at least in the first article, which defines what financial assets are. That's the first one. Second, it's also suggested to introduce, I'm reading to you literally, "the services provided by the bank in accordance with the Banking and Banking Act, all services are called financial services." Well, please tell me, does it make sense that, in accordance with the Banking and Banking Act, banking institutions not only do financial services, but they do other services, for example, incest -- it's not a financial service. For example, box services, counselling services, auditing -- it's not a financial operation, it's not allowed to be made into law and it's all financial transactions. So by comparison, in credit unions, not all their transactions by statute, under a separate law, are as financial, are additional. Similarly, other credit institutions. So, I think that's how the volume to record all the services under the Natzbank Act is financial. Well, that's wrong, I think it's a big mistake. Next, the provision of financial services not included in this article is prohibited. Tell me, how long does it take for this, what I just said, to put in the first article, this one that we're talking about right now, to write and accept in this room? And what do you do by now if Tax comes in and says, "Sorry, this one. You haven't applied to this law, we're counting it, you're doing it wrong." What to do, how to be a fund-raiser for these financial transactions? Therefore, this bill is worthless in terms of the legislation already in force and cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u81	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u82	Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Ladies and gentlemen, while continuing with the opinion of the previous speaker, I reiterate that, unfortunately, this is not a national MP, and this is an authority that shows the level that is now in the Cabinet of Ministers. So, first of all, if you're going to give a list, it has to be complete, exclusive, without shipping to other laws. This is a legislative technique that needs to be followed. The other one. You can't say in a negative form, "giving others that aren't involved is forbidden." It's supposed to go in positive form. Obviously, others are strictly forbidden. Third. Well, the whole point of this law, as I understand it, is for the body that regulates it to give its interpretation of what financial service is. That is why they do not give an exclusive list. And they indicate that we have the right to determine whether it is a financial service or not. I view this as a subject of the temptation of corruption, which is a corrupt law. That's why we can't support him. Can it be made for second reading? Well, obviously not, so it's a bill that's worthless, because it can't be accepted as such if we don't want to increase the level of corruption that we still have to go to heaven, and in this respect, Ukraine beats all the records. Shame on the man who prepared it!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The Committee's conclusion, once again: to accept as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 4 of the Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services on Types of Financial Services. [[Registration number 11060]] Please vote. [[17:20:49]] For 261 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve the competitiveness of domestic aircraft. [[Registration number 10134]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:21:20]] For 215 Decision taken. The reporter is Jaroslav Suhi. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Who's speaking from the committee, Pinchuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues! On the eve of Engineer Day, which we're going to celebrate on Sunday, I want to remind you that we just came up with this fifth call to develop a system of state support for our engineering sector. The sporadic bills relating to State support for automobiles, shipbuilding, agricultural machinery, and aircraft construction begin to produce their first results. But what is the point now in this bill? Today, some of our unwholesome airlines are using the following scheme. I immediately make a warning: it's not about boings, it's about aerbass, it's about big planes. It's about small planes that we're making, or medium planes that we're producing in Ukraine. This is where the plane appears to be on a temporary schedule for a year, and then it gets out. Nobody pays any taxes for this plane. The plane is taken to lysing by the airline, calmly, well-functioning, earning money, moving abroad again at the end of the year, and so forth. For comparison, Ukrainian aircraft builders: Kyivski "Aviant", Antonov's ANTC, 410th, Kharkiv Aviation and Production Association – 20 percent of VAT is paid for compendium from Ukraine. And if these are for the plane and beyond, then there's another 20 percent of the blur. The main purpose of this bill is to bring the production of Ukrainian aircraft and airplanes that are being brought here into equal condition. So make an exception to this lysing scheme of airplanes that are produced here in Ukraine, space between 50 and 100. And one more thing. This, on the one hand, will create a level playing field, on the other hand, what we've already talked about in this session hall will stop the export of funds abroad in the form of lysing payments. This bill is simple and clear. I think we can vote for it as a whole. I'd just like to hear the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u86	I'd like to hear the opinion of a committee that I couldn't understand at all. The Minister's office doesn't deny that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority doesn't deny it, the committee says it needs to be sent to work. I'll give you a simple reminder. Except for the 50 to 100 seats, that's all. What else can we do, except?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u87	Thank you. Please make a statement from the committee to the People's Deputy of Pinchuk, please. What, the microphone? But it'll be quicker for the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u88	I'd like to make a point. Not for further processing, but the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority has made some adjustments that we're going to work on between the first and the second readings. So there are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u89	Please sign up for the discussion if necessary. Please. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I thank the representative of the profile committee, it changes everything because the first option was to send him to work. So I think that in that case, of course, this bill needs to be adopted in the first reading. And I ask you, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put to the vote the proposal for a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. Because he's simple and clear. We have to protect our aircraft manufacturer! I'll give you one more example. You'll find it interesting for the county. This is our AN-140. We sold a license in Iran. In Iran, this plane is produced by the name of Iran-140. But they're already selling over 60 planes around the world. We're in Ukraine, now in cooperation with Voronez, we've barely released 14 pieces, because it's very expensive to produce these taxes all the time. We're not on equal terms. Our aircraft builders must have equal conditions. Please! We'll compete then, both in quality and in fuel and in comfort. I think this bill is extremely necessary for our engineering industry. Before the day of the builder, who will be on Sunday, let us give the airplane builders, if not the law, at least the hope of a better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u91	Please, Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u92	Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Planebuilding is the only sector that we have a full cycle and where we are competitive. And in this respect, I bow my head to the people's deputy Boguslaev and my colleague Suhim, who are making sure that the state is still on its feet. Because when you read what's written in "The Geer of the Week," the last issue, "The International Debt of Salamatin," and you see how all the other businesses are tearing down the state! But our defenses, which have been very competitive in export technology, have always been a profitable industry, and they've only put profits into the budget, now they're only doing one thing! Do not let God still entrust this man with the production of aviation. This will be a gross sin. And I would like exactly the same thing for people who are considered to be statesmen to have made similar changes in the fields that relate to the same shipbuilding, because that's exactly the same problem. Just like that. And that's what we have to do if we're state people. And in this case, we need to support this project. And actually there are some brands, we have to do the second reading and only give it a week, I think we're going to make these amendments by force. And let's all vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to increase the competitiveness of domestic aircraft. [[Registration number 10134]] Please vote. [[17:28:44]] For 275 Decision taken. And I'm voting on the proposal to have the committee prepare him for second reading in short. Well, now it's me. Take down the vote. Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u94	Dear National Deputies! National Deputy Sass, BUIT is Fatherland. Shortening of lines, shorting of lines does not solve the issue in essence. Because we're shortening the supply deadlines. But the Rules do not set a time for preparation for second reading. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in order to solve the issue in fact, has to make a proposal and give some time for the committee to prepare a bill. And this is something that needs to be voted on in order to solve this issue essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u95	Thanks for the tip. I am betting on the vote on the commission of the committee to prepare for a reduced procedure for consideration at the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 2. Please vote. [[17:29:55]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to consider in the re-reading of the draft Law on Production and Circumstances of Organic Agriculture and Raw Materials. A motion is put to the vote to consider this issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:30:28]] For 225 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. The authors are a group of all factions: both Carmazin and Kaletnik, Sharov and Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u96	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on September 4, this year, a revised draft of the Ukrainian Law on Production and Circumstances of Organic Agricultural Products and Raw Materials, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Karmazin, Kaletnik, Sharov, Kirilenko. [[Registration number 9707]] As you all remember, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been reviewing legislation on this issue for several years. Last year, even the Ukrainian Organic Production Act was passed, but it never came into effect. In this year, we have already considered two bills on organic production, which, as a result of the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, were aimed at furthering the drafters of the legislative initiative. Finally, thanks to the joint work of the National Deputies of the various factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Karmazin, Kaletnik, Sharov, Kirilenka, the Committee considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Production and Process of Organic Agricultural Products and Raw Materials, which was developed by these authors. During the discussion at the committee meeting, discussions took place on the subject. All questions related to the further development of organic production in the state were discussed. The bill takes into account the previous shortcomings of legislation under consideration regarding the development of organic production in the State. There are clear rules on organic production and raw materials that the President of Ukraine, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the Legal Administration of the Supreme Council, noted in the absence. State authorities have been designated to be responsible for the production and circulation of organic products and raw materials. The committee unanimously supported the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a project on the production and circulation of organic agricultural products and raw materials as a basis and as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 9707]] The only request. The only request: on page 7 of article 10, there must be an application. Instead of the word "approved," replace it with the word "developed." We need to put a dot in this relevant area of agriculture and adopt the very necessary law for all of us. Because it's from the one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u97	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u98	us and the next generation. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the address if necessary. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's too late. Please show me your name. Alexander Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u100	Please pass the word to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u101	Mikola Tomenko. Then there's Stanislaw Arzevite.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I support the speaker that this sad story needs to end with a positive outcome. I want to remind you that we've come a long way. I mean our team of authors in the composition of Mikola Tomenko, Roman Tkac, Yuri Litwin, with the active support of our Committee of Agriculture and Industry led by Gregory Kaletnik, we found that common language and came out of what, for Ukraine, as a food country that can compete in this world, support not just an organic producer, but support for small and medium-sized businesses, support for farmers, is extremely important. I want to remind you that in two and a half years we've convinced everyone, both believers and unbelievers, that this is an extremely important bill. And to me, it was a surprise that the President's Administration gave us a veto on a bill that was voted for by almost 400 people's deputies. And the veto was written in black and white that organic production in Ukraine is an anti-constitutional thing. So I'd like to know during this time of our discussion who's sitting in the President's Office or in the Cabinet of Ministers, which determines that purely organic production by the Ukrainian agricultural producer is anti-constitutional? Unfortunately, there is no ministry today. I think this bill is one of the most important to extract both agriculture and to provide environmentally sound food. Sadly, they did not come to the chief from the Ministry to support or say what would happen next. I support it as soon as possible, because in this law, the left hand side of our work, our copyright team, we don't get offended here because we have to do a good job. But once again, we have to have a guarantee that once again, either in Kabmin or in the Presidential Authority, and we understand very well, the lobbyists of the big business, who feed 300,000 pigs at the same time, do not stop this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u103	Stanislaw Arzwethyn, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u104	Please pass Karmazin to Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u105	Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u106	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I thank my colleague Arjevetina very much, and I would like to thank all the national deputies who have been involved in the drafting of this law for the past three years. This is both Mikola Tomenka, and Tkacha, and Lithuania, and the public who, in the head of the environmental coordination council, Sergey Orikhova, requires the adoption of this bill. So there's understanding both from the top, and from the bottom, different parties, starting with the Selyans and ending up with all the agrarians, require that. Obviously, everyone knows that the European Party for European Development is speaking in the same part because it is already in Europe. I remind you that in Sweden, which is a European leader, almost 12 percent of organic production is produced in organic lands. 12 percent, remember the figure. In Austria, Italy, 8, Switzerland, 10, and we Ukrainians are seriously and seriously behind. We have only 100 companies today that claim to do so. That's why organic production is all about rejecting the use of genetically modified organisms, antibiotics, toxic chemicals, mineral fertilizers. This will lead to increased natural biological activity in the soil, restoring nutrient balance and improving the health of our nation. Because the use of organic products will indirectly contribute to the preservation of both the environment and the preservation of the Ukrainian gene pool and to the reduction of the diseases that exist today. So thank you all, thank you to the committee and please accept this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over, I'll bet. Honorary colleagues, the committee suggests that we take the basis and, in general, take into account the refinement described in the report. Is there no objection? Since there is no objection, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis and in the whole of the draft Law on the Production and Cycle of Organic Agricultural Products and Raw Materials, taking into account the clarifications that the rapporteur said. [[Registration number 90707]] Please vote. [[17:38:57]] For 262 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider a number of drafts in the second reading regime. A draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the deregulation of agricultural activities from land administration and land-based work is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 11131]] Yeah, no chart? Then we'll put it off. It's easy. I can't see the table, then. Well, find out. There's no chart. Yes, a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the performance of household obligations is being considered. There's no table, let's put it down. Now, the draft of the One National Demographic Register Act. What is it, I don't get it? There's no chart. Draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for counterfeiting of excise stamps. Yes, the reporter is the head of the committee's committee on law enforcement, Vasil Gretzak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u108	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, a bill to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine on increasing responsibility for counterfeiting the stamps of the excise congregation, adopted in the first reading, is being submitted to your consideration. In preparing the bill for the second reading to the committee, two proposals were made by the national deputy Gnoschuk, who had been rejected as contrary to article 116 of the Rules. Let me remind you that the bill is aimed at increasing the responsibility for producing, storing, acquiring, transferring, transferring, importing to Ukraine for sale, as well as the sale of illegally manufactured, obtained or forged excise stamps and their holographic protective elements. The bill consists of two chapters. The first, which contains changes to the Criminal Code, the second, determines the order of validity of the law and the implementation of its provisions. In doing so, the first chapter of the bill refers to the production, storage, purchase, transfer, import to Ukraine for sale, as well as the sale of illegally obtained or forged stamps of the excise congregation to the subject of the crime of article 199 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, excluding the relevant provisions of article 216 of the Code. The committee has considered the bill and believes it will help to improve the mechanism of criminal and legal opposition to the illegal circulation of excise stamps. As a result of the second reading, the committee recommends the adoption of Bill 4736 in the second reading and generally as a law. Dear colleagues, you know that today in the Czech Republic there are very scary things going on. Today, 24 people have been killed – all because of counterfeit excise stamps and the counterfeit substances that have been added to the vodka products and others. That's why this question is extremely relevant, and I would think that, in large numbers, we should not go to 192 articles, but to 215: "Intentional murder." But the committee has considered it, and I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u109	The two amendments made by Yuri Hanushtak, which conflict with article 116, cannot be considered. Do you have anything to do with this? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u110	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." From a formal point of view, there are contradictions to the 116th article of the Rules. But I would like to point out that confiscation of property is a survival of Stalin's time when, at the same time, the punishment of a man for committing a crime has also devastated his family. A shining example is the same Lucenko who was convicted, well, let's say, illegally, but at the same time, his property is confiscated. That is, the damage suffered by the State, 40,000, instead of filing a civil suit to compensate the damage, the entire family went around the world. So I would like to point out that we need to continue to regulate this and bring our criminal legislation to civilized standards. Well, for now, I'm not going to insist that my amendment be voted on. I'm filming it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the proposal for a second-reading committee to vote as a bill of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for the counterfeiting of excise stamps. [[Registration number 4736]] Please vote. [[17:44:37]] For 242 The law is passed. Yes, now the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Improving the Procedure for Deduction of Lands and Changing Their Purposes. There's no chart. Dear colleagues! Yes, now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the operation of payment systems and the development of non-cash accounts]] [[10656]] Yes, the reporter is Vitaly Hometic. Please. Who's it gonna be, Igor Prassolov? Yeah, come on. Oh, no, one minute, there's no chart. There's no table to report? Next, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. [[on the organization of cash circulation]] [[7127]] The reporter is Praslov. Please. There's a table.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u112	The Honourable Chairman, the distinguished colleagues before Bill 7127, had been amended 14 times, and 6 of them had been taken into account. The Committee, after its consideration of the bill on second reading and in general, recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 7127 on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u113	Who insists on their amendments that are not taken into account? None. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine on the organization of cash circulation. [[Registration number 7127]] Please vote. I asked everyone to keep their mouths shut. I've already announced the vote. [[17:47:13]] For 262 The law is passed. Arjovitin, please. Microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, this is, indeed, an important bill. This is the first time in history we've introduced electronic money into the legislative field. I registered a similar bill four years ago. And thank you very much for our committee that implemented my Law on Electronic Money in this bill that the National Bank recommended, and actually my whole bill is in this text. And if you've noticed, in Table 10 of my amendments, in fact, key amendments are included, so thank you very much. I would like to point out that now, if we accept this bill, we have electronic money in Ukraine. An electronic money issue is only allowed by the banking system. So I wanted to say hello to you that you and I have adopted a very important bill, and we have shown up in Ukraine other than cash, cash, and electronic money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u115	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, we are now moving to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws regarding the participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in international peace and security operations. Dear colleagues, I'm informing you, the committee's been working on virtually all the amendments taken into account. The main legal issue has no comment. May I vote? I am voting for a second reading proposal and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in international peace and security operations. [[Registration number 10491]] Please vote. [[17:49:22]] For 232 The law is passed. Thank you. Next draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, other central executive bodies, whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] Registration number 10219. The committee asked about the transfer of the matter. Because it's not processed and the table is missing. Is there no objection? What's to bet? If there's no chart, what do you want? A draft Civil Protection Code for Ukraine is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Anatoly Seminoga. Who's it gonna be? Okay, Glasunov? Who will report?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u116	The Committee considered in its second reading the Code of Civil Protection Laws and proposes to the Supreme Council, taking into account what there are many observations, both scientific and expert, and legal administration, yet for the second reading to re-send the bill. And the committee's ready to move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, there's a really huge amount and a decision of the committee to re-read, and the Chief Legal Authority thinks that we need to work on it there so that we don't get the veto of the President of Ukraine. So I'm voting for a second reading proposal. If you don't support it, then we'll put it in general. About re-reading. Registration number 10294. [[17:52:18]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving the Activities of the Prosecutor's Office is under review. Reporter of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Valery Ananiyovich Beviz Please, Valery Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u118	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, to carry out the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on September 17, this year, our committee considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Improving the Activities of the Prosecutor's Office, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Philippenk, Pisarenko and Olijnik, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[Registration number 11074]] The bill provides for the abolition of such a form of prosecutorial response as a prescription. The prosecutor is also deprived of the right to protest and order violations of disciplinary conduct, and so forth. During the drafting of the bill for the second reading by the Ukrainian National Deputies, 89 observations and proposals by legal entities were processed, of which 23 were completely and 67 were rejected. The committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider this bill in a second reading and to accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention. I propose to move on to an article-by-article review of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u119	Let's go to the repairs quickly. Yes, 2 revisions. Don't insist. Three, no. Four. 5th, Hanusztak, are you insisting on her? Say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u120	Well, what do you mean, no. Yuri Hanustzak, Faction of the Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, well, first of all, what is coordination? Coordination cannot end with a decision being made. See, the prosecutor, in coordinating the activities of the force structures, is known to be an elder. Then let's define that this is not coordination, and this is essentially a meeting of the main body as if it were an organ. If we understand that the prosecutor is equal in front of everyone, the decision of this coordinating board cannot be mandatory. Or write down, in which case appropriate counsel is given, whose decisions are binding. So in civilized countries, only the Head of State or prefect can.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u121	Thank you. 5 the amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:55:40]] For 1 Yeah, 7th, Filipino. 9th, Prokopchuk, do you insist? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u122	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. I want to say that, in general, when it comes to improving the activities of the prosecutor’s office, I wanted to associate this with the latest statements made by the attorney general, independent of the Attorney General, the first Deputy Renat Kuzmin, including at the Yaltian summit. Where again and again about Julia Timoshenko, who is illegally convicted, today is behind bars, not just the methods of violent rape of our law, the constitution, I don't know what, but it's a simple substitution of concepts. When the first interlocutor sits before all international representatives who ask specific questions – when there will be justice in Ukraine, when the Constitution is still being implemented in Ukraine – and he says we will still break because we still have something without any facts. Then came the renegade millers and all the others, and the two convicts who gave.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u123	The 9th Amendment of the Prokopchuk shall be put to the vote, please vote. [[17:57:18]] For -6 Not supported. Streetwich? Don't insist. A stick? Don't insist. Stratovic, 17th doesn't insist. The baton, 19th, partially. Stick, 20th. Chicken. Stick, 22nd. 23rd. 24th. Stretovich, 27th is insisting. 28th, Stick. Gannicus, 29th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u124	I don't have time for repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u125	29th. 29th, it's on page 13, on the top.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u126	Adam Ivanovich, I don't think she needs to be supported there at all, this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u127	Indeed, it is necessary, indeed, to establish terms, clear terms, during which the prosecutor must react. Because we've got a very interesting situation, and Kiev is the same thing, and we've committed a number of crimes, and the prosecutor is sitting there with his eyes closed. Then, four years later, he suddenly tripped and said that there was an offence and he was dragging it back. Therefore, the prosecutor should be placed in a strict time frame.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u128	29th vote, please. By the time you put the D.A. on the table, he's faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u129	No, it's all in the law. Then there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, Read the law more carefully. [[17:59:17]] For the five of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u130	Not supported. Yes, Prokopchuk, 33rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u131	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. My proposal for an amendment is a sub-item that refers to the same thing again, forgeries that are already seen by prosecutors. By the way, according to the Constitution and the Transitional Regulations there should be no follow-up action at all, nothing else. Although under the extended new Commercial and Procedural Code, that's exactly what's left of the prosecutor's office. So I propose to exclude those items that do not fall under the Constitution and the law of the prosecutor's office. In this way it is impossible to order criminal offences, as was the case with Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko, and other political prisoners. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u132	Yeah, what about the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the right column, which reads: "Articles 25, 27 and 28, paragraph 8." There's got to be a 33 instead of a 28. Exclusion. It's for the stenographer. As for a colleague's speech, I want to say absolutely, sorry, not professionally or on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u134	33 is voting, please be determined. [[18:01:06]] For the four of us. Not supported. 37th, overruled. There is 37 amendments to the Coastal Amendment. [[18:01:32]] For 252 37 revisions supported. Stick, 38th. Digger, 39th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u135	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. At the expense of professionalism, we know how it is being applied today, including in the judicial, law enforcement system of Ukraine, and this assessment, as they say, is being given by such "professionals" to the whole world, Europe already has other continents. So I understand my colleague, you can always refer to non-professionalism, but nevertheless, in order to avoid selective justice, selective investigation, selective and other things, I think those who hear me now, and this is the entire Ukrainian people, who are now very careful to listen to who's taking over how Ukrainian land is being looted, how they take away language, culture and so on. They understand everything, they do not find in the courts today, nor in the legal system of justice that must be. So my amendment is that this is the point that needs to be ruled out, and the first time we have a meeting, we have adopted the Public Prosecutor's Act, let's stick to it and go after it, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u136	39 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[18:03:04]] For-9 Not supported. Digger, 40th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u137	Yuri Prokopchuk, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland", Ravenshkina. And in the 40th Amendment, I also propose to exclude what is completely incompatible with the Constitution of Ukraine, with the laws of Ukraine, with international human rights conventions and so forth. It's about changing procedural documents and stuff. We know how the forged case concerning Julia Timoshenko has been and has been replaced by documents for some xeropscopy with questionable signatures that could have been the basis for judges like Kiriev and other renegades in the mantle in order to pass an illegal sentence. So I propose that this article be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u138	40 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[18:04:28]] For -6 Not supported. 41st, the Coastal Rejection, insists on a vote. Puts 41 to the vote. Please vote. [[18:04:51]] For 266 Supported. 45th, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u139	Yuri Prokopchuk, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Being consistent in its actions and following the logic of this particular bill, which, well, does not completely improve the work of the prosecutor's office, namely, it does, let's say, make it completely again dependent on certain power structures, subordinate not to parliament, as it should be, but directly to officials in places, small gods, princes, who are now very much divorced to Ukraine, who are now sitting in the seats of governors, as they call themselves, and others. I ask this sub-paragraph in this amendment to exclude. And it's made clear what the prosecutor is saying. We're taking the Constitution -- and it says here that this is the person who's responsible, who's controlling what functions he's performing. The other functions of the prosecutor's office are totally inappropriate and are contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u140	45th vote. [[6:06:24]] For the five of us. Not supported. Yes, Prokopchuk, 50 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u141	Similarly. I propose to exclude a sub-item that concerns protest, prescription, prosecution, and so forth. We understand very well how much today, when local councils that vote for certain things are legal, someone runs to the prosecutor's office and provides documents such as the prosecutor's protest. As a result, even where city heads are taken off today, city heads, like Kuznietsovsk, by the way, in the city of Dubno on the Plains, are simply given these protests, which are then passed by the majority in the council, but still to their new protests. This is what the Public Prosecutor’s Office is doing today in relation to the territorial communities, as the authorities are using to break through the knee of local council members. So this item has to be excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u142	50 amendments shall be made to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u143	Yuri Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, but you're being heard by, in fact, professionals, employees of the Attorney General's Office today and all the state's subordinates.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u144	I'll bet you 50 votes. Please. [[18:08:01]] For -8 Not supported. Yeah, Stick, 54th, 55th. Don't insist. Stick, 64th. Don't insist. It's 67th, 69th. Yes, taken into account. 83rd, accounted for. 89th, Bad. 83 corrections? 83th is on the Coast. Filipina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! 83 amendments, really, are counted and that's correct. It amends some legislation in this regard. But note that we are making changes to article 216 of the CPC, which deals with the issue of traceability, in view of the fact that the provisions of the Law on State Service, which will expire on January 1, 2013. At the same time, however, you and I forget article 31 of the CPC, which also includes certain features of criminal conduct regarding those who are particularly responsible. In view of this, I would also like to take into account that this article also needs to be amended, inter alia, by paragraph one of the first part of article 31 of the new CPC, as follows: “Criminal conduct with regard to persons mentioned in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 of part two of the Ukrainian Law on State Service, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, his first deputy or deputy, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, his first deputy or deputy, his head, his deputy or the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, his head, his first deputy, his deputy, his deputy, and the Supreme Court of Ukraine's judges, his heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u146	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u147	heads, their deputies or judges of the higher specialized courts, the heads of the National Bank of Ukraine, its first deputy or deputy, a member of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, as well as persons whose posts under article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State Service are assigned to the public service posts of sub-groups 1, 1.2, 1.3." continue according to the text of the Criminal Procedure Code. This simply needs to be changed, for two months later we will have to make changes again, Adam Ivanovich. So I ask, and the committee also supports this formulation in 83 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u148	So 83 amendments are in line with the proposals proposed by a colleague named Philippeenko. Please vote. [[18:11:04]] For 254
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u149	Decision taken. One minute. What's that? 88 revisions, Coast Guard. It's rejected. That's how you put her to the vote, right? The committee's offering this? I'm voting on Amendment 88 to support it. Please vote. [[18:11:45]] For 260 Correction accepted. Valery Ananiyovich, please inspire the Supreme Council to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you on behalf of the committee and ask you to adopt the law in general and vote, to support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u151	Filipina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Valery Ananiyovich! Remember, we talked to you about the position 79 of the chart. Amendment 36 Coastal, it's rejected, correct. But when the committee was preparing the table for the second reading, note that we have the final edition, the final edition, which goes to article 35 at the end, on the page. I'll tell you what, on page 16.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u153	Yes, there is! Yes. I just missed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u154	I would like to announce this very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u155	Please, Valery Ananiyovich, say your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u156	This is page 16, notice, please, at the very bottom, the right side. This is the 36th amendment: "Consequent to this section 3, 5 is considered to be excluded." Period. Because these positions are already provided in the previous text.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u157	But do we have to vote for this proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u158	Yeah, yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u159	I'm voting on a proposal that the committee head just put to the vote. Please vote. [[18:13:41]] For 264 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the activities of the Prosecutor's Office, please vote. [[Registration number 11074]] [[18:14:17]] For 261 The law was passed with 261 votes, which we also voted on. Yes, dear colleagues, let us turn to the following questions. That is, this is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on citizenship. There's no chart. So we're putting it off. We're looking at laws with proposals from the President of Ukraine. I am announcing for consideration the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Housing and Utilities Act on improving housing management and dealing with individual issues in the area of housing and utility services, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 18.07.2012. Let's look at this in a simplified way. Please vote. [[18:15:28]] For 219 Decision taken. Reporter Yuri Miroshnichenko is the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u160	Dear voters, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 June 2012, the above-mentioned law on registration number 8391 cannot be signed by the Head of State for such reasons. First, the proposed concept of multi-house management is contrary to the constitutional guarantees of ownership, in particular Article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which does not correspond to the granting of powers to the government to regulate by-law acts relating directly to the implementation of the owner's powers, since the legal regime is determined solely by the laws of Ukraine. The arrangement by which a multi - apartment building manager will determine the local government rather than the home’s owners is not in line with articles 13 and 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Such an order violates the person’s right to manage his property and includes the risks of anticompetitive arrangements between house managers and local self - government authorities, which can lead to the monopolization of the relevant services market. Articles 21, 22 and 41 of the Constitution do not correspond to the restriction on the right of joint owners of apartment buildings to self - control. The law does not allow the house to be run without the creation of a legal person or without the choice of a manager. Then the law actually narrows down existing ownership rights as to the free way of managing the house. Secondly, we cannot agree with the introduction of the rules on co-owners' financing of the building's capital repairs. In such a case, the State hesitates to fulfil its obligations under the privatisation of the State Housing Fund to co-finance expenditures on municipal, capital, pardon, repairs. Thirdly, the law does not explicitly regulate the form of management of newly built apartment buildings, which enables the local government to decide on its own discretion on the appointment of a manager. Dear colleagues, I'd like to support your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u161	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u162	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and to reject this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u163	From the Maybear Committee. Well, is the committee in the same position? Yeah? You tell us, please. Then say it, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u164	On September 5, 2012, the Committee reviewed the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The President's remarks are supported throughout the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the President of Ukraine's proposals to reject the law as a violation of the constitutional guarantees of property rights, the basic position of which is imperfect and will not contribute to resolving urgent issues of multi-family governance. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u165	Dear colleagues, the President's motion to reject the law is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8391]] [[18:19:09]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is also proposed to reject the following law – this is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on patronage with proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[of 17.07.2012]] You have a package of documents. And the committee is proposing to support the President's proposal. I'm betting on a vote on the rejection of the Ukrainian law. [[Registration number 9224]] Please vote. [[18:19:58]] For 267 Decision taken. Now, dear colleagues, we need to consider the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Individual Offences, in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. [[Registration number 7483]] I would like to vote on the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. If there is no objection, we can immediately vote on the amendments. [[18:20:38]] For 225 There are four amendments here, yes. We need to vote on them. I'll put to the vote one amendment, please vote. [[18:21:01]] For 265 Decision taken. I'll bet on a vote of two, please vote. [[18:21:19]] For 263 Decision taken. I'm betting on the 3rd amendment that the committee has taken into account, please vote. [[18:21:36]] For 264 Amendment 3 counted. And I'm putting to the vote the 4th amendment, which is also included, please vote. [[18:21:55]] For 264 Correction counted. I'm betting on a motion to adopt a law in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, in fact, in a new edition. [[Registration number 7484]] Please vote. [[18:22:25]] For 265 The law is passed. Dear People's Deputies, similarly, we need to address the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on refugees and persons who need additional or temporary protection. The president of Ukraine made his offer to us on August 15, 2008, the law. And the committee reviewed the President's proposals and considered them. So if you don't mind, let's vote on these proposals that are included, and then we'll figure out the final decision. There's a vote on the proposal of the 1st President of Ukraine, which is counted. Please vote. [[18:23:24]] For 261 Offer supported. I'm betting on vote 2 of the amendment, which is also included. Please vote. [[6:23:47]] For 264 Correction accepted. I'll bet on the vote 3 of the amendment, which contains the President's proposals. Please vote. [[18:24:10]] For 264 Decision taken. Oleg Zarubinsky of this regard. Please, the microphone. Head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u166	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority, given that a number of laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine have taken effect following the return to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Law of Ukraine, "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the issue of refugees and persons who need additional or temporary protection" for review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, suggests that some technical clarifications be made regarding codification numbers. If I may, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would read them for the record.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u167	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u168	Once again, they came after the validity of other laws. First. Paragraph 13 of Chapter I of the Act after the words "On combating tuberculosis" are added to the words and figures "in the Ukraine Act of 22 March 2012". The other one. Paragraph 17 of Section I of the Act after the figures "358" should be supplemented by the words and figures "with amendments to the Law of Ukraine of 15 March 2012 Nos. 4523-6". Third. In paragraph 18 of Chapter I of the law, the numbers and words in the quotes "2012" "No. 12-13" "Article 82" are deleted. And the fourth. In section I, paragraph 23, of the law, replace the digits "22" with "23". After the numbers "393" add the words and figures in the quotes "with the changes introduced by the Ukrainian Act of 23 February 2012 No. 4452-6". Thank you. I want to say this again because other laws have come into force after this law has returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u169	Dear colleagues! We need to vote for these proposals from the committee. That's why I'm betting on the vote, please support. [[18:26:46]] For 266 Decision taken. The proposal for the adoption of the Law as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and the clarifications supported by the committee, registration number 10428. Please vote. [[18:27:15]] For 265 The law is passed. Yes, Your Honor, now the Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws to order the exercise of State oversight and to monitor compliance with legislation on the protection of work with the proposals of the President of Ukraine from 26.07.2012. A number of suggestions made in the President's remarks have been processed by the committee, and it suggests considering these proposals, supporting them and adopting the Law, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. That's why I'm putting the President's first amendment to this Act to the vote. Please vote. [[18:28:29]] For 262 Correction accepted. I'm betting on voting for the President's second amendment to this Act. Please vote. [[18:28:10]] For 262 We voted on the amendments. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Law, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, i.e. acceptance in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, registration number 8484. Please vote. [[18:29:06]] For 268. The law is passed. Now, honourable colleagues, I propose your consideration of the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to Articles 9 and 25 of the Ukrainian Act "On Collection and Accounting of a Single Contribution to a Generally Compulsory State Social Insurance" with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 14.08.2012. A number of remarks were made by the President to this law. The committee considered them and invites the Supreme Council to take them into account. So I'm putting these proposals together, which are one amendment, amendment number one. I ask you to vote for this amendment. [[18:30:01]] For 263 Decision taken. There is a motion for adoption of the law in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9779]] Please vote. [[18:30:26]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is now proposed by the Ukrainian Aquaculture Act, which has been proposed by the President of Ukraine since 19.07. In 2012. [[Registration number 9571]] The proposals that came from the President of Ukraine were considered by the committee and were proposed in the form of amendments. Let's look at them and vote. I'm betting on a vote of 1 amendment. Please vote. [[18:31:14]] For 264 Decision taken. I'm betting on a vote of two. Please vote. [[18:31:32]] For 261 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 3 amendments. Please vote. [[18:31:54]] For 260 Correction accepted. I'll bet you a vote on the 4th amendment. Please vote. [[18:32:12]] For 260 Correction accepted. Puts to the vote the 5th amendment. Please vote. [[18:32:32]] For 263 Decision taken. I'll take a vote on the 6th amendment. Please vote. [[18:32:49]] For 264 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote on the 7th amendment. Please vote. [[18:33:11]] For 263 The 7th amendment is accepted. I'll bet vote on the 8th amendment. Please vote. [[18:33:30.]] For 266 Correction accepted. I'll bet you a vote on the 9th amendment. Please vote. [[18:33:49]] For 262 The 9th amendment is accepted. 10 amendments shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[18:34:08]] For 267 Correction accepted. 11 amendments shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[18:34:28]] For 262 Correction accepted. 12 amendments shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[18:34:47]] For 265 Correction accepted. I'm betting on the 13th amendment. Please vote. [[18:35:06]] For 266 Correction accepted. 14 amendments shall be made to the vote. Vote. [[18:35:24]] For 262 Decision taken. I'll bet you a vote on the 15th amendment. Vote. [[18:35:42]] For 257 Correction accepted. The 16th amendment is half of the amendments. [[18:36:04]] For 262 Correction accepted. Amendment 17 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[18:36:24]] For 260 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 18 amendments. Please vote. [[18:36:46]] For 260 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 19 amendments. Please vote. [[18:37:05]] For 257 Correction accepted. I'll bet you 20 votes. Vote. [[18:37:24]] For 254 Correction accepted. The 21st Amendment votes. [[18:37:42]] For 258. Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 22. [[18:38:00]] For 260 The decision has been taken on this amendment. I'll put to the vote 23 of the amendment, please vote. [[18:38:20]] For 263 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 24 amendments. [[18:38:38]] For 259. Correction accepted. 25 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[18:38:58]] For 260 Correction accepted. I'll bet on the vote 26 of the amendment. [[18:39:16]] For 261 Correction accepted. Puts to the vote the 27th amendment. [[18:39:37]] For 263 Correction accepted. Puts to the vote 28 amendments. [[18:39:56]] For 261 Correction accepted. Puts to the vote 29 amendments. [[18:40:15]] For 261 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 30. Please vote. [[18:40:34]] For 261 Correction accepted. 31 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[18:40:53]] For 260 Correction accepted. Puts to the vote 32 amendments, the last. Please vote. [[18:41:12]] For 261 The amendment is supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to enact a law in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9571]] Please vote. [[18:41:44]] For 264 The law is passed. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the Act of Ukraine "On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the powers of the central executive authority to ensure the implementation of State policy in the sphere of grace and powers of the central executive authority, which provides for the formation and implementation of State policy in the field of foreign relations of Ukraine with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[of May 15, 2012]] The committee considered the comments made by the President of Ukraine. They are amended accordingly. The committee's offering to support them. Amendment 1 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[18:42:46]] For 259. Correction supported. Amendment 2 shall be put to the vote. [[18:43:06]] For 258. Correction supported. So, dear fellows, we voted on all the amendments. There is a motion for adoption of the law in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, please vote. Registration number 10268. [[18:43:42]] For 264 Decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, now the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on Trade in Medical Devices in the Rural Region. The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[18:44:17]] For 222 Decision taken. The reporter is Vladimir Kaplienko. Pinchuk will be speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u170	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens! Providing medical supplies and medical supplies to the population in Ukraine is a matter of constant concern. Unfortunately, today in Ukraine, and especially in the country, there are a large number of locations where, because of the absence of pharmacies, residents are affected and forced to buy medicines outside the home that make life difficult, especially in our own, quite the kind of, you know, slippery times. An attempt to address this issue has been made by the Ministry of Health, which allows for the implementation of such medical devices through field obstetrics, district hospitals, FAPs, etc. [[No. 423]] But to date, one obstacle is the Ukrainian Tax Code, which we have recently voted on. It contains this 267 - article part of the first paragraph, which provides that a certain congregation should be paid for commercial activities at the points of sale. And it's going to be from two hundred to one tenth of the minimum wage, within that range. At the same time, paragraph 267.1.2 of the Tax Code still defines the list of operators who are and are not paying for such a congregation, the establishment of commercial activities, and the provision of paid services. In particular, they are not paying for the designated pharmacy congregation, which is owned by the state and municipal authorities. Our law proposes that we expand the list of farm subjects who do not have to pay for this congregation if there is no pharmacy in the village and there is no hospital in Feldscher, a nursing home, a hospital, an ambulance, a general practice and family medicine. There will be no less coming into the state budget because there are no such pharmacies today. But I think we're going to improve the living conditions of peasants living in rural areas. The law is completely social, please support it in the first reading. If there's a will, there's a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u171	Yes, from the Pinchuk Committee, please. Katerina Vaschuk, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u172	Dear colleagues, indeed, this social law, allows in rural areas to improve in some way the provision of medical supplies. Where there are usually government pharmacies or utility pharmacies, this is extended to them. But where they don't exist, and most villages don't have such pharmacies, it's allowed to do this in the field-absteering facility, the FAP, the so-called, or the infirmary. Now they don't trade drugs, they don't provide the population, because they don't have the right, they have to pay extra fees for licenses that they just don't have. Therefore, our opinion, committee members, in the first reading of the bill, can be supported, taking into account the comments of the expert department, the management. Before the second reading correct all the disagreements that are here, unfortunately there is. But first it can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u173	Dear colleagues, please sign up. Please, Vladimir Karpuk, then Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u174	Vladimir Karpuk. The Health Committee also supports the adoption of the bill in its first reading, because it has a rather noble goal of improving the provision of essential agricultural medicines. After all, about 20 percent of all pharmacies are located in a village where 40 percent of the population lives. Many, indeed, villages are without any means of providing medical supplies. And even though this bill does not fully address it, it does not provide for this goal that it has set, because many Feldscherian, Feldscherian and obstetrician sites, district hospitals are not the subject of farming. And it's more clearly defined in order number 423, that's really what the author of the bill was talking about, but in the first reading, we support the adoption of this important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u175	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u176	Hanustak Yuri, "BUT is the Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen, without in principle denying that there is a problem, I would like to say some cautions. First of all, look, we're mixing, on the one hand, the form of ownership, and, on the other hand, the spatial location. In view of the audience and the radio. In line with the changes to the Budget Code, faps and outpatients are funded from the district budget. And the general rule is that money runs where it's easier to hide it and where it costs more. That is, the actual decision will be made at the district level, not at the level of the host or budget entity that is, let us say, the same village council. So this might be a situation where actually because of the village sign, the ones in the city are going to work because it's at the moment, it's getting mixed up. So I'd like the second reading to look very carefully and carefully at these issues and to develop these concepts, because otherwise we're going to have what happened to the free economic zones. But once again, I repeat that there really is a problem, and really, this problem needs to be solved. The question is, What kind of tool is there to solve this problem without harming or causing abuse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u177	Dear colleagues. Asshole, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u178	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Gennady Bullying, Santa Claus. Well, really, a lot of the national deputies today drive around their districts and communicate with the villagers and know what the state of affairs is in FAPach. What is more, everyone today knows that these FAPIs have been taken into the silrad and are in what position they are in today. But people talk very often about the problem that they can't buy drugs because they have to go, the nearest pharmacy 10-15-20 kilometers. Moreover, this Ribakova-Capileenka bill deals with the main task: it lists those drugs that will be sold in these FAPah, a list that the Ministry of Health approves. That's why this law is really needed in the country today, because it'll make life easier for these grandparents who don't have the ability to go 10 to 15 kilometers to the center or more to the village. That's why I urge all the MPs to vote in favour of this bill. I'm asking you very much because you need him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u179	It's on. May I have your attention, fellow officers? A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Trade in Medical Equipment in Rural Areas (registration number 10225). Please vote. Based on the base. [[18:52:57]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the last bill is to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[Registration number 10656]] [[on the operation of payment systems and the development of non-cash accounts]] Glasoons, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u180	I would like to remind the distinguished President that the bill includes three main areas of regulation: consumer rights in the financial services market, the development of electronic payments in Ukraine and the financial independence and security of the payment system in Ukraine. Of the total number of amendments and additions to the Payment Systems Act, the Electronic Signature Act, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Civil Code, the Administrative Code, 14 amendments and additions that improve the rights of consumers of financial services, 8 facilitate the development of electronic payments and 7 regulate the systemic functioning of the national payment system and the security of its activities. In addition, I would like to draw your attention, for the record, to request that the General Legal Administration of the Supreme Council be instructed to carry out the technical and legal drafting of the law in preparing it for signature. The Committee at its meeting recommends that the Supreme Council adopt Bill 10656 on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m1.u181	Dear colleagues, of the 172 amendments, much of these amendments are taken into account. It is therefore up to everyone to put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the functioning of payment systems and the development of non-cash accounts. Please vote. [[6:55:30.]] For 260 The law is passed. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Working in committees and factions, from 24 to 28 — work in districts, that is, with voters. Since October 2nd, we've been working in plenary. Thank you.
