ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, we'll be on the job in a minute and a half. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the session room. Good morning, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The solemn session on the occasion of the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies, which was elected on October 28, 2012, declared open. Dear newly elected Ukrainian national deputies! Allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the sixth vocation and all those present in this Hall, I think, from the entire Ukrainian community, to welcome you with the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies, to wish you a fruitful and, I stress, constructive work in the higher and only legislative body of Ukraine, the higher representative body of the Ukrainian people. Honourable National Deputies, at a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are present Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, President. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask both the right and the left to calm down. Welcome to the President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk, the heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for previous appeals, the national deputies of Ukraine for previous appeals, the head and judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Specialised Court of Ukraine for Civil and Criminal Affairs, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Head of the National Radio Radio, the Head of the National Council of the Russian Armed Forces, the Head of the Antimonopal Committee of Ukraine, the Chief of the Security Service of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Please also welcome those attending our meeting of representatives of the diplomatic corps, religious denominations, and representatives of the media. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I invite you to the rostrum of the oldest elected national deputy of Ukraine, Yuhim Leonidovich Zvagilski, to speak the text of the oath. To make an oath, I ask the Ukrainian national deputies to stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m0.u3	Thank you, Yuhim Leonidovich. Dear colleagues, welcome to all of you. [[Applause]] And please sit down. Please sit down, dear fellows. Please get up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m0.u4	Please sit down. Honourable National Deputies, for the ceremony of signing the text of the oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies, are scheduled for up to 12 hours. The oath will be signed by each member of the jury in the third floor. After signing the text of the oath, honourable colleagues, you should hand over this document to the Supreme Council staff on the second floor at the registration tables and get the ballot cards and at the registration tables you should register to participate in the first plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. The preparatory parliamentary group will generalize the outcome of the oath and report to you before the opening of the first plenary session of the seventh session of the Parliament on the results: how many deputies, after signing the oath, begin to perform the duties, duties, obligations of the Ukrainian national deputy. So, your honorary colleagues, there is a break of 12 o'clock to execute the process of bonding with your signatures of the oath of the Ukrainian National Deputy. At 12 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
