ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:14]] They registered in the 379 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shiyanov Boris Anatoliyovich. Please welcome our colleague and wish him success and health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on June 5, 2012. 54 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 6 laws and 2 decrees were passed, 22 bills were adopted on the basis of which 1 bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, 15 bills and 2 draft regulations were rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes spent speaking to Ukrainian national deputies. Please sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Irina Gorin, faction of the Party of the Regions. Zabarsky, please. The mountain gives Zabarski the right to speak. Orestes Mutz will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u2	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The need to update the Constitution of Ukraine is supported by most Ukrainian citizens and is largely perceived by all the political forces and society of Ukraine. According to sociological surveys conducted by the National Institute of Strategic Research, nearly 63 percent of Ukrainian citizens believe that constitutional changes are necessary to bring about order in the country. According to world experience, the Constitutional Assembly itself, which is a politically uninvolved and professional representative institution, is one of the most effective democratic forms of social support and acceptance of proposals for constitutional changes achieved in the political order of society. As a result, in February 2011, the President of Ukraine supported the initiative to establish the Constitutional Assembly. And on May 17, this year, the President of Ukraine signed the decree on the Constitutional Assembly, which approved the Assembly and its personal composition. The Assembly consists of 95 persons who have appropriate professional training and experience in the fields of state-making and law-making, who exercise authority in society and in society. authorized to perform this function by the State or local self-government. These included representatives of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the National Branch of Academy of Sciences and Economic Sciences, other scientific institutions and higher education institutions, professional public organizations and independent think tanks, politicians, judges, experts, scientists, representatives of political parties and parliamentary factions and groups in the Supreme Council. Regrettably, members of the opposition withdrew from the work of the Assembly. The parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and political parties who have not submitted proposals for candidates to the Personal Composition of the Constitutional Assembly are still given the opportunity to make such proposals during the Assembly's activities. I would like to point out that all European institutions see the Assembly’s activities as something that Ukraine needs to complete its reforms and fulfil its commitments to Europe. And to update the Constitution for the benefit of the entire Ukrainian people. The refusal of the opposition to participate in the work of the Constitutional Assembly once again underscores its inaction and indifference to the society of our State, while the introduction of such constitutional reforms is essential. I urge the opposition to join the work of the Constitutional Assembly, to identify among the professionals who are in the MP factions and groups, those who will be included in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u4	together, within this Assembly, to perform a more important task of updating the Constitution of Ukraine for the benefit of the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u5	Orest Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Bondarenko. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, today Ukrainian journalists are celebrating their professional press day. On behalf of the almost one-and-a-half-million-dollar army of the Party of the Regions, I would like to welcome the multi-thousand army of shark pens and microphone owners and wish you success. Ukrainian journalism is learning to be an independent, objective, influential and responsible social force. She's being scolded for her mistakes and praised for her achievements. Today, however, the best thing that a national journalist has is that it is necessary to preserve and reproduce. First of all, the Ukrainian journalist was multivoted, varied in views, learned not to be afraid, learned to defend his rights, learned to unite for noble purposes. A Ukrainian journalist learns critical thinking, learns to be equally skeptical of everything and learns everything except what is bad, see what is good. A Ukrainian journalist learns to be responsible and indifferent. The global digital world has changed the journalist and changed the demands of the profession, but it has not changed human morals and principles of work. Courage, honesty, mercy and inequality continue to be honoured, with objectivity, completeness and balance. All these qualities are needed by a Ukrainian journalist to earn the trust of his reader, viewer, listener. Only through confidence will a journalist be able to retain the same fourth authority traditionally vested in the media. Unfortunately, Ukrainian economic and legal realities do not allow for the dynamic development of domestic television channels, newspapers, magazines and Internet sites. There are many technical barriers to past heritage. That is why the deregulation of business, including in the field of media, is a major challenge for the authorities at present. The President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, and Prime Minister of Ukraine Nikolai Azarov, have repeatedly stated this. The parliamentary subcommittee on television and radio is now working on a new edition of the Television and Broadcasting Act. In this document, we want to reflect all the aspirations and hopes of domestic electronic media, reduce the ability of the State to intervene in the management of the media, update legislation based on technological progress, facilitate the registration of new audiovisual services, develop a variety of sources of information, content and views. It will be easier for the media to work, more likely to develop Ukrainian journalism. This means retaining jobs for journalists, creating new ones, raising their incomes, and the financial confidence of their families in tomorrow. I believe we can do a lot together. I believe that. That the best laws are written only with a joint pen. I therefore invite journalists to cooperate in writing a new law on television and radio broadcasting, using the capacity of the parliamentary rostrum. And once again, with a holiday for you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u7	Oleg Lazko, non-fractional, radical party. Next up will be Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u8	Dear citizens of Ukraine, yesterday after voting in Parliament on the scandalous 9127 bill, I read the headlines of the popular electronic media: "The council quietly hit the sawdusters in the evening of 2013. The Council passed a scandalous law on benefits for Afghans and black people. The MPs hid under the tongue the cancellation of the benefits of the Chernobyls and Afghans. In this situation, the only way to say it is to hear the bell, but they do not know where it is. I was in the parliamentary room last night. So I don't know what was actually going on. During the second reading of the State Guarantees Bill, which I urged, was deleted, I stress to the whole country that the anti-constitutional rules, which were proposed to effectively repeal two dozen social laws, gave the government the right to determine the size and order of payments of state social guarantees, depending on the revenue of the state budget. Hence, it is not the law that deals with any injury or difference in benefits. With full responsibility, I say that the final draft of the bill that has been passed has only rules that guarantee the execution of court decisions on the collection of funds by the borrower, which is the state authority or the state enterprise. In such a way, this law is essential because it will allow millions of court decisions that have been dusted in executive departments for years. That's why I voted in favour of this law. In accordance with the new law, the execution of court decisions on the collection of funds from the public authority is carried out within the limits of budgetary assignments. And in the absence of these appointments, the funds provided by the budget program for the execution of court decisions. Recalculating the cost of the retractors is done within three months. If the amount is not counted at the specified time, the payer will be compensated at 3 percent of the year’s unpaid amount. This is our first victory. All those who have been protesting throughout the country for a long time. After all, we have forced the authorities to abandon the intention of depriving millions of Ukrainian citizens of the constitutional right to social protection. They also forced the government to guarantee the execution of court decisions that are not being executed today on account of the lack of funds in the budget. But the struggle for the social rights of citizens has not ceased, and it must continue. Because last year's unconstitutional Constitutional Court rulings have not been overturned, with millions being stolen by the government, robs millions of pensioners of different categories, according to the law of the pension. Therefore, the question of the resignation of today’s government and the radical change of all power in Ukraine is more timely than ever.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u9	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear Ukrainians, were crossed by Rubicon yesterday, the authorities appeared to be their faces, the faces of colonizers, who divided the Ukrainian people into colonizers and colonized people, restored the status of Russian as a language of ruin, both as a person and as a whole of the Ukrainian nation. The Constitution of Ukraine, article 10, and article 11 of the Constitution of Ukraine have been violated, within which the development of languages of national minorities is guaranteed and all their linguistic, cultural rights are guaranteed. Last night was left with everything, all the consequences, when. The Russian occupation of Ukraine, when millions of Ukrainians were forced under pressure from the occupying Communist or state authorities in ancient times to give up their language and culture. Because it's uncompromising, uncompromising to Ukrainians, and today they're speaking Russian. This mental aggression against Ukraine, with regard to Ukrainians, has continued for 20 years, not without the help of a neighboring Russian state. Ukraine's only possible route is understanding, it's the way to repay the debt to the Ukrainian people, the debt Majakovsky wrote: "Friend Moscow, I tell you, the teeth of Ukraine are not rocks. Learn this language, otherwise." Whether it's a Russian-speaking Ukrainian or a Russian who doesn't recognize the rights of Ukrainians, it's an occupying and colonizer, and yesterday's law has confirmed this status, and it's crossed out the movement towards understanding between Ukrainians of different nationalities, different languages, people who communicate in different languages. The only possible humanitarian and cultural language policy, I repeat, is the rebirth policy of the Ukrainian word, the age of the persecuted, the trampled, the daily rape and today in the Ukrainian state. And that was all crossed out yesterday. Yesterday the authorities took an anti-constitutional step, put themselves beyond constitutionality in the majority, so they put themselves beyond legitimacy in the consciousness of Ukrainian citizens who have not betrayed their language, who have not betrayed their culture. In these circumstances, I urge all Ukrainians to take a decisive position in every social cell, in every place against the new occupation of Ukraine. And he that is borne will not wreath at the bottom of the sea a field, neither will he shake up the soul of the living, nor the word of the living. The truth is behind us, and behind us is the historical existence of the Ukrainian people, and behind us is our land. And we're not going to give up on the new invaders of our culture or our language or our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u11	Andrew Kožemiakin, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." The right to speak is given by a colleague of Paul’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u12	Good afternoon! Allow me, on behalf of the "BUT" faction, to welcome journalists with a professional holiday, to thank them for their understanding and support. [[Applause]] It's a statement from the "BUT" faction. Contrary to any common sense, in violation of all notions of consciousness in public policy, the Party of Regions tried yesterday to push the law, which is one of the most painful issues for Ukraine -- the question of language. President Janukovic himself is in charge of this process. If the majority, by means of the Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Lithuania, hadn't tricked into adopting this law in the first reading, in violation of the Rules, we would not have allowed it to be adopted. Yesterday, everyone saw that against those who wanted to speak Ukrainian, they were using the whole force, Berkut and gas. What makes them do this? First, distracting society from real serious problems: economic, political, social. The other one. They want to get at least a few percent of the votes in the next election because the state of trust in the present authority is almost zero. The price of a language question is the future of the state, because statehood is defined by language. There is only one national language and there is a nation. There is language, there is a country. So every element of the state: the territory, the Constitution, the national tradition and language, is now of great importance. The party of regions, its desire to destroy the national identity of the Ukrainian people because of the linguistic issue, is not only threatening to destroy the spiritual foundations of our nation, it is, without exaggeration, a crime against history and the future nation. The initiators of this law were well aware that he must provoke opposition, be a catalyst for dissension and dissipation of Ukrainian society, and conduct a conditional demarcation line between the West and the East. President Janukovic and the Party of Regions are hopelessly lagging behind the real sentiments of the Ukrainian people. People want to live in an independent European state. This does not mean disrespect for any nationality and its linguistic authenticity, the world today is tolerant, it is enshrined in our Constitution. We clearly realize that we live here in Ukraine, and then we have our own historical language -- Ukrainian -- and that's the law, and breaking the law is a crime. By translating into military language, I explain. The symbol of the battle part is the flag. The loss of the flag under any circumstances entails the decomposition of the unit and its elimination. The Ukrainian language is the spiritual flag of our nation. Its disappearance will mean the elimination of the sovereignty and statehood of Ukraine, so the faction of "The Fatherland" is definitely against the adoption of this law as a whole, it's not accepted yet, it's not there. It won't be. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u13	Yuri Odarchenko is transferring the right to speak to Andrew Schleak. Next up will be Santa's Whip.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u14	I also want to welcome a fellow journalist. I want them to live in a state for which they will never be ashamed, which will not be the subject of monitoring the European Parliament and the European Community. Because on May 24, 2012, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on Ukraine, in which it stated once again its concern over trials against former and current senior government officials and, above all, against Julia Timoshenko, against whom torture had been applied. The European Parliament condemns the fact that the Ukrainian authorities have violated new, politically motivated cases against Timoshenko and others that are contrary to the principles of the rule of law. In this regard, the European Parliament called on the Ukrainian authorities to distinguish between political and criminal responsibility and to make appropriate changes to the current Criminal Code. The European Parliament stressed that the democratic struggle for political decisions should take place in Parliament, with the participation of voters in free elections, it should not be destroyed and ensure everyone's equality of choice and choice. The European Parliament states that holding fair and fair parliamentary elections in Ukraine will be crucial for the future country. The European Parliament stressed that free, fair, fair elections with the opposition leaders Timoshenko and Lucenka will be crucial. The Resolution refers to the need for comprehensive reforms, the Resolution states that judicial reform has been carried out, so-called reform carried out by the current authorities, destroys the judicial system, undermines confidence in the judicial system, and as a result, politically motivated opposition leaders are being persecuted. The European Parliament viewed the persecution of Timoshenko as a political bill-raiser with a rival in the last election campaign, where a few percent divided -- I quote -- of today's President from the leader of the opposition, after which the President of Ukraine dropped for a motivated criminal case, a court with the help of such ones as Kyrieev. Both objectivity and transparency require the European Parliament, objectivity and transparency in the cases of the case of Tymoshenko, because until now the court of cassation has put the case on hold for unmotivated reasons and reasons. And I want to emphasize, the honourable majority, or not honorable, but most of you, don't subdue Ukraine, don't turn it into a target of research and impact, don't put it on that country that, in principle, has to be your own. Maybe you don't love her, maybe you're ashamed of her, but don't beat her. Freedom, Timoshenko! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u15	Mikola Derkach, faction of the People's Party. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Shersun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u17	Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, please. Drought will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u18	Mikola Shersch, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues! Yesterday, June 5, the world celebrated World Environment Day 41st. Its goal is to draw attention to environmental problems and to remind people of the need to change their attitude toward nature. Unfortunately, yesterday because of political battles or mere indifference, no one mentioned the event. At the same time, despite well - developed environmental legislation, we cannot boast either clean water or clean air or waste - and - other urban filth. The world as a whole is also a source of concern. Experts estimate that mankind is already 35 percent more than the consumption of natural resources that the biosphere can produce. But society is not yet fully aware that natural resources are the basic material factor in the existence of any community. Their attitude and the nature of their use depend on the economic, political, and spiritual model of civilization and the state as a whole. There is nothing to boast about in Ukraine. Here, the technological pressure on the environment is 4-5 times higher than that of post-industrial countries. Land destruction reached 80 percent of the agricultural land area and 57 percent of the state’s total area. The energy efficiency of gross national product is more than ten times higher than that of post-industrial countries, water use in two and a half, and some times more than ten times that of modern technology. As a result, some 12 percent of Ukraine’s territory is in a natural or close state today, so even during hot political discussions, we need to remember that the pursuit of environmental revenue may result in significant natural and material costs. However, the Supreme Council is increasingly considering bills aimed at simplifying and unifying the procedures for issuing documents of a permissive nature in order to create more favourable conditions for the further development of Ukrainian enterprises. If this is justified in other areas of activity, environmental protection can have disastrous consequences. And that's what's causing concern in the Committee on Ecology. So we're going to introduce a few very important bills. In particular, this is the draft Environmental Impact Assessment Act, which will allow environmental risks to be taken into account in strategic decision-making. They need to be accepted at this session, for in other cases the temporary benefit for the state or individual enterprises will result in irreparable environmental losses, so for the economy and health of the population. I would like to welcome the journalists with a professional holiday. Good luck with your life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u19	Thank you. Please. Dear colleagues, there is a limit. Alla Alexandrovska is handing over the right to speak to Catherine Samuel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u20	Thank you, Ally Alexandrovni, and thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In my speech, I would like to address personally the Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. During the past two weeks, Hersons ’ homes were drenched and drenched. During a meeting in the city of Skadovian, people complained about the callousness of the city’s authority. Imagine a paralyzed elderly woman lying bedridden for a few days. In the house on the knees of the water. There's no help. Nobody needs her, and she doesn't have her family. Family with young children, there is nowhere to go. Children are passed through windows when the sun appears on the street. Skadovians gathered and went to the city’s head with despair, grief, tears, and pleas for help. I can't help you. Go to the district government. Why are you taking the mayor's chair? Why did he not give reliable information in time to the Ministry of Emergency Situations, to the government, because the sewage treatment plants, the sewage treatment plants, are not working? Moreover, when the media came to the press for comment, he claimed that this was a pianist, the elections were near. People are in trouble in every yard, and you show disrespect for the same people who chose you? And so I'm asking Mikola Janovich, we need to do everything we can to get Kabmin back to work on the drainage systems that blew up the metalists for the sake of enrichment. Whether the former head of the district government would be held responsible, the orange - period police, who were hiding the destruction of irrigation, including drainage systems, were affected by them. Another very important problem is gasification. Radensk, the Proletarian of the Zurupina region, the settlements of the Chaplin region, has been waiting two years for the problem to be resolved. People took loans, put everything up to the last penny, sold everything and stayed with the debts, but no gas, and the cart and now there. Why can't this be resolved by the leaders who do what people do, and people have invested in the economy of the state? Please personally, Mikola Janovich, intervene in the matter. Every winter people are poor, and leaders are driven by their own political ambitions and say your political sympathies are not on the other side.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u21	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u22	And that's why they refuse to decide for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u23	Valerius Krynyus, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." You don't? So where's Krany? Krynim's microphone. But he's the Last One, don't shout. Please don't control it. It's extreme, it's referring to the right to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u24	I give the word to Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u25	Pudov's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u26	People's deputy of Pudov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." On May 21st of this year, the Ukrainian Judicial Association, the Foundation for the Promotion of Justice in its publication "The Justice of Ukraine" published a material called "Mother Koleschenka filled the teachers with nastier." In addition, the expanded material is contained in the newspaper "Ukraine Young" called "Vip-touch." [[No. 071]] According to the information provided, three years are pending in various courts on the charge of Valentina Vasilovna, Macedonia, of committing the crime provided for in article 128 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Despite the impact of Macedonia’s actions on respiratory and second-degree esophagus, supported by appropriate expertise, the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region reopened the case in 2010. Although the District Court has already found Macedonia guilty twice of the crime. Now, attention, nonsense. On May 17, in the city of Zashków, there was a court of appeal in the Cherkas region, where the case of Macedonia’s Valentina Vasilovna was discussed on another occasion. The case has been moved one more time. At the same time, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine does not provide for the possibility of a court-martial. The grounds for the court’s departure to the city of Jaszkova remain unclear, and there are no reasons for the defendant’s inability to arrive at the appeal court in Cherkasí within tens of miles. Of course, this was not supposed to be a part of this and a member of the Supreme Council Committee on Justice of Vadim Kolesnick. In accordance with article 16 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, justice in criminal matters is carried out on the basis of equality of citizens before the law and the court regardless of their origin, social and property status, race, nationality, sex, education, language, treatment of religion, kind, nature of occupation, place of residence and other circumstances. In view of the foregoing, there is good reason to state that the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region deliberately prolonged the case by referring it to further investigation and a new court hearing, as well as by violating the principle of equal treatment of the parties in the proceedings and the Ukrainian KPC rules, by holding a trial. In light of what I have outlined, pursuant to article 16 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, I have appealed to the relevant authorities and, by the way, to the head of the High Council of Justice of the Wheeler to verify the information presented in the press and to take steps to bring the courts of the Court of Appeal of the Cherka Region to justice for deliberately delaying the trial and violating the oath in the prosecution of the criminal case against Macedonia, Valentina Vasilovna in the commission of the crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u27	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u28	What I'm informing my colleagues on the Supreme Council and citizens of Ukraine. And I'm also asking you to consider my statement as a matter of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! We've finished the performance. For suggestions that have been made and that need to be responded to, I ask that you prepare appropriate assignments. And one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been some accusations not only in the session hall but also in various ways that the Chief of the Supreme Council has been playing tricks on the Rules when the issue of voting has been raised. Please show me one norm that I've broken. And what you've done to each other's mutual agreements, and then to cover up for the people, before the voters of your contracts, you want to drop all the blame on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, your colleagues, it doesn't do you any honor, because some of your actions remind you of a chicken that runs away from the cock and thinks, "Aren't I running very fast?".. Therefore, fellow believers, let us take responsibility for what you have created. If I've violated one norm of the Rules, show me. Show me! And now think about how to work on, and make amendments and suggestions to this law, and take responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby announce the entry of the National Deputy of Lanov Volodymyr Timothyovich into the MP's faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to Wednesday's June 6th issues. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Order of Transfer of Samples of Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Their Precursors is announced for consideration. [[within SND countries]] Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[10:35:05]] For 209 Decision taken. The reporter is Head of the State Drug Control Service Vladimir Timoshenko. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Belarus. Please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u30	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, at a meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the SND, held in St. Petersburg on 18 October 2011, was signed by the Ukrainian side with the Agreement on the Order of Transfer of Samples of Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Their Precursors. The subject of the agreement is the exchange between the competent authorities of the parties to the agreement with samples removed from the illicit circulation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors, for the purpose of carrying out operational research, ensuring comparative research, and for scientific and educational purposes. In order to ensure that this agreement becomes effective, in accordance with part six of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the State Drug Control Service has prepared a draft Law on the ratification of this agreement and, by order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a draft law submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 April 2012. [[No. 196]] The draft law is accepted by interested authorities without notice — the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The project was approved by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to combat organized crime and corruption. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u31	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u32	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on May 16, gave a comprehensive consideration to the draft Ukrainian Law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. And I made a recommendation decision to return him to work on the subject of the legislative initiative with a possible next ratification. Since May 16, much time has passed, and no work has been done. The main scientific expert office rejects the ratification of this agreement and has made numerous warnings about its provisions, as well as about the content of the draft law itself. The Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a bill on the basis of the second reading. The Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence recommends ratifying the required agreement, subject to the prior consideration of the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The draft law on exemption from customs clearance and control in the transfer between the competent authorities of the SND countries of drug samples and their precursors is unacceptable and can create real opportunities to increase the illegal movement of their distribution and reproduction. Double counting and control are therefore required. The Committee on Foreign Affairs noted that the law was drafted in violation of the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u33	Microphone, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u34	The High Council Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that the Supreme Council send this bill for further work with possible ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u35	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for this. Ruslan Knazevich, please. Is Vladimir Karpuk going to perform?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u36	May I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u37	Yes, Vladimir Karpuk, please. The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Sergey Shevchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u38	Vladimir Karpuk. Dear colleagues! First, from a political point of view, we have not signed the statute of the Union of Independent States and therefore we cannot sign any other SND documents. [[SND]] It's from the same point of view. From another point of view, I would like to draw attention to a number of articles in this agreement that provide for a carefree view of movement across the customs borders of samples of each substance up to 50 grams. If you take this dose, 50 grams for each substance, I emphasize, this is 5,000 particularly large doses for a substance like LSD, 500 doses for methylfentanil, etc. I mean, if we ratify this agreement, it'll help us move a pretty large dose of narcotics. And if you had 50 grams for each substance, you could carry, like, another sample, say, 200 grams of heroin, which is an extremely large dose. Even from this one point of view, this bill cannot be supported. And I support the idea that it should be sent for processing. And in principle, to work out, it's in the contract, it's left with those doses, it's to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u39	Sergey Shevchuk, the "BUT" faction, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is not only the substances that are related to the drug group that are the weapons used today in the world. These are weapons against young people, weapons against future generations. And this weapon has piled up, unfortunately, since the war in Afghanistan, it's still going on, probably, a hundred years in advance. All the nations that participate there, both European and Pacific and Asian, have sufficient arsenals of these weapons. How can we proceed in this case? The draft ratification, the ratification law, frankly, indicates that there is a mistrust between the services involved to deal with the issue. The mistrust between the service and the customs office, since the latter is simply removed from double control. Now I can't tell you how much the Customs Service has earned this trust, whether it can effectively control it. There are many examples of corruption in this ministry. And so this is a very difficult question for you to take a one-off vote, to confirm the virtually uncontrolled movement of these substances. On the other hand, we are well aware that the drug business today is in the service of terrorism and that we cannot ignore the issue. Hence, what Oleg Belarus offered as chairman of the committee to consider the matter, but later to work out, it is balanced to approach, question the opinions of all interested ones, as well as those concerned with the health of the generations. I think that's a good idea. Anyway, I suggest we don't reject it, but at the same time, we don't close the matter immediately, allowing the security services to do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u41	Thank you. Oleg Lakota, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u42	Oleg Lazko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you a question as Head of the Supreme Council on the statement you just made yesterday that there was a conspiracy between the Party of the Regions and the opposition in Parliament around the language bill. I made a similar statement, but unlike you, I don't know the details of this conspiracy. Obviously, as Head of the Supreme Council, they are better known to you. Since the question is causing enormous social resonance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u43	Turn off the microphone, please. Dear colleagues, I didn't say a word about the conspiracy. I'm asking you, in fact. Let's not. Ladies and gentlemen, who insists on the performance? None. Dear colleagues, in view of what is appropriate, one minute, in view of what is appropriate in terms of the observations of scientific and expert management and position, please note, the committee, let's move forward in this way: let's consider making a decision as a basis. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports, with the commission of the committee until the next plenary meeting, that is to say, 20 to work out, by agreeing on proposals with the government, the fact is that there is a denial of three countries about one or the other positions. I think this is going to be the right approach. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. Please vote. [[0251]] [[10:45:28]] For 270. Decision taken. And commission of the committee: to submit this document to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its final decision. And now, honourable colleagues, regarding the observation that these issues are being dealt with by a reduced procedure. We have a large list of drafts, and if we look at them all in full procedure, they will not be considered, there will be accusations on the other hand that there is a special hold on the consideration of opposition bills. So I would ask you here with understanding to deal with these proposals. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on International Property Rights on Mobile Equipment and the Protocol to the Convention on International Property Rights on Mobile Equipment is now under review. [[Registration number 0255]] The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:46:43]] For 229 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Vladimir Kornienko. The Coroner is the deputy chairman of the committee, Stepan Kurpil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You will have before you the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention on International Property Rights for Mobile Equipment and the Protocol to the Convention on International Property Rights for Mobile Equipment, which is designed to carry out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Convention and the Protocol to the Convention on International Assets for Mobile Equipment, adopted on 16 November 2001 in Cape Town. The draft law provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Convention and the Protocol, signed by Ukraine on 3 March 2004 to implement the order of the President of Ukraine of 25. The year 12 - 2003 — How Did The Convention on International Proprietary Property Rights and the Protocol to the Convention on International Proprietary Rights for Mobile Equipment on Aviation Equipment in the event of their ratification will play a role as a basic international regulatory instrument in the procurement and lysis of mobile equipment in the transport and space sectors. The application of the mechanisms set out in the Convention and the Protocol will reduce the risks of foreign creditor banks and mobile equipment suppliers, increase the availability of credits, reduce the cost of credits, contribute to the creation of additional investment opportunities, establish new economic connections, and anticipate a significant upgrade of the fleet of aircraft. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law and the implementation of the Convention and the Protocol do not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The project was discussed at three, discussed and supported in three committees of the Supreme Council. In view of the above, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on International Property Rights for Mobile Equipment and the Protocol to the Convention on International Property Rights for Mobile Equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u45	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Stepan Kurpil, deputy head of the Committee on European Integration. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u46	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on European Integration considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on International Property Rights for Mobile Equipment and the Protocol to the Convention on International Property Rights for Mobile Equipment by the President of Ukraine and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, the members of our committee have come from the fact that the ratification of the Convention and the Protocol will contribute to the implementation in Ukraine of the rules of international property rights for the appropriate mobile equipment and allow the fleet of transport vehicles to be effectively and expeditiously updated. The bill creates conditions for the protection of the property rights of foreign creditors in certain categories of movable equipment and associated rights in Ukraine. The introduction of an international legal regime as a result of the ratification of the Convention will provide an opportunity to reduce financial risks and the cost of loans. At the same time, financial resources will become more accessible to buyers of appropriate high-cost mobile equipment, encouraging its modernisation. The European Integration Committee has acknowledged the bill in a manner that does not conflict with Ukraine's international and legal obligations and EU legislation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss this bill, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Then there's Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u48	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, in fact, the essence of the question that we are asked to consider and ratify is very simple. In Ukraine today, and it's not today, it's acquired for many years, it's true, it's limited enough opportunities, both credit and leasing markets, domestic credit and domestic lysing markets. In such circumstances, property rights to mobile equipment, when this equipment crosses our state border, are at great risk. Is that good or bad? Bad. Because when there are big risks, including for foreign banks, they increase interest on loans. You can certainly see, so you know, controversially that the purpose of this bill is to reduce the risk of foreign creditor banks. But in the end, this risk reduction will lead to four key things: firstly, the availability of credits for the Ukrainian consumer will increase once; secondly, the less risks there will be interest on these loans, respectively, and accessibility will be increased; and thirdly, there will be new economic, horizontal ones, including connections, the economic interaction between Ukraine and other countries that may be partners in the plan, including the grant, and the sale of movable property. Therefore, we do not see any obstacles to the ratification of this agreement. It's in the interest of the investment. and increased investment activity, business activity in Ukraine and the replenishment of that park, which is said to have already worn out by a very large percentage. The People's Party faction will vote in favour of ratifying these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u49	Thank you. Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u50	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Clearly, the convention must be supported. It addresses not only issues at the international level related to the purchase of equipment by Ukraine, but it also addresses issues of equipment supply from Ukraine. We don't have to forget that we still have an aviation industry and a space industry that needs to be maintained in the country. As for further action and, first of all, consideration of the reduced procedure, then, after acceptance, God forbid, in the whole of this anti-Ukrainian Language Law, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I would like to remind you that there will be no question of a reduced procedure, because it will have to be translated into Ukrainian national language. And I'd like to support the convention, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Ivan Popescu, one minute, please. Then Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u52	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of Regions. High-level colleagues, the ratification of this convention and the Protocol to this convention will contribute to the creation of a comfortable investment climate, particularly in the field of air transport and rail transport. I also want to point out that this will result in two positive consequences. First, on the one hand, there will be new budget concessions, on the other hand, which will lead to the renovation of the fleet of aircraft and the rolling stock. This will make our passengers feel better about themselves, on the one hand, when they're being transported, and on the other hand, they'll give in to the budget. That's why the Party of Regions will be in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, Ruslan Knyazevich is still entitled to speak. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Our faction will surely have to support this bill. And I think the arguments were enough. Another thing is, it's kind of sad that this convention was still signed in 2001. Ukraine finally managed to sign it in 2004. In the plan for Ukraine's accession to the WTO, the Prime Minister's 2008 mandate was to ratify it. Then again in 2010. And finally, in mid-2012, she gets into the session hall. It's been 12 years. On the one hand, the government says it is very important and needs to be accepted immediately, on the other hand, it took almost 12 years for Ukraine to open up and bring it into the session hall. At the same time, we understand how important it is, because it will really be the possibility of accessing cheaper and more secure financial creditors, let's say, the possibilities of Europe and the world, because in this situation, unfortunately, our domestic aviation industry, despite.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u55	Do you have everyone? Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u56	Despite the preferences that we have given in the Tax Code and have recently passed a special law, it cannot come out of that crisis by itself. Maybe this law will help, we'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to support the draft law for ratification. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention on International Property Rights for Mobile Equipment and the Protocol to the Convention on International Property Rights for Mobile Equipment is put to the vote. [[Registration number 0255]] Please vote. [[10:57:25]] For 344 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! Now we have to look at the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Constitution. [[on Intactness]] [[Registration number 10530]] In accordance with article 146 of the Supreme Council’s Rules on this subject, the reduced procedure cannot be applied. So we have to deal with the whole procedure. Is there no objection? Clearly, there is no objection to the Rules. Reporter - Mikola Tomenko, co-rapporteur - Head of the Committee on Legal Policy Sergei Mishchenko. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I have been entrusted with 153 national deputies who have taken the initiative to form our approaches to such a complex problem that has arisen in Ukraine when a certain category of officials falls from the point of view of attitude, responsibility from the general constitutional system, the general constitutional system, the general legislative canvas. This is not the first time that Parliament has returned to the issue of equality before the law. This problem was discussed actively in the session room at various times. And I propose to show this impartiality today in addressing this issue, because I have spoken in this session hall on the need for a constitutional norm, where the law is one for all and where there is no President, judges, national deputies or other officials who make up a kind of caste of untouchables. I'll tell you, colleagues, if we don't get to the bottom of this, we're going to have this informally untouched caste growing to the lowest officials. If you're driving Ukraine and from time to time, for example, you'd like to come to the head of the district administration, the heads of the district administration, many of the city's heads, you'll see that, despite the fact that the legislation didn't extend this inviolability to them, in fact, they're untouchable. They are contrary to the current legislation, the common sense and principles on which they operate, their floor separated from the general officials, there is protection, there are the restraints. Now, I remember, to the living classic of the local self-government of Leonid Chernivetsky, there must have been a hundred more fighters with him to get past the security guard he was guarding when he was stealing the Ukrainian capital's "young team". And as long as we haven't asked the question here, everyone's saying, but it's nothing to worry about, and what's the matter, he's got ten guards armed with his teeth, and we beat up deputies in Kievrada with a BUT faction, nothing bad happened. Today we're about to get to the point where we have the lowest-level officials moving around with security, with flashes, and not allowing out-of-town citizens, and the MPs won't allow it. Because today to meet a local official is a problem that no country in the world has. So the ideology of superiority in front of other citizens of an official's level is evil for the country, it's a danger, it's a crime. On the other hand, my friends, I don't see any problem with this. Because I'm only going to quote one man today who holds one of the most responsible positions, he's the minister of justice, before that, he was our colleague to the First Vice Speaker of Parliament, and he's kind of talking about our law quite clearly and specifically. Alexander Lavrinovich says that this bill stipulates that either a person or a president of Ukraine will be elected by the Ukrainian national deputy or he will be serving in the Ukrainian court, the requirements of Ukrainian law are mandatory for all. And in the case of acts that have signs of a crime against this person, a criminal case must be violated without any restrictions. There's no limit to that. We suggest that all these restrictions be lifted. Here, friends, we have full consensus and 153 national deputies from the united opposition who signed the application, and the minister of justice, who is one of the leaders of the Party of the Regions, speaks one language. This language is spoken by all Ukrainian citizens today who do not understand why a judge of the local court may be in a situation where he is responsible for a traffic accident and does not have the general principles of responsibility. Why are we today one of the poorest countries in Europe to accompany the President, to move him through a country that is becoming an emergency, to spend the most money in the world? Today, we must begin that serious procedure and balance those who, rather than being needed to provide for society, need to be servants in society. By the way, the paradoxical situation, you know, one great historical in philosophical terms, the great nation, the Indian nation has a caste of untouchables. This caste of people, who unfortunately are being despised by most of the population, is because it's the lowest caste. They can't be greeted, they can't be eaten out of one bowl there and so on. We have come to the point where today's untouchable presidents, judges and the Supreme Rane are despised by the majority of society as they despise the untouchables in India. Only there are the most destitute, the poorest, and the most disadvantaged, and we have, to put it mildly, not very poor and disadvantaged. So we thought it was necessary not to turn this into some kind of pre-election thing, because we went back to that in 2009. And by the way, the Fatherland faction and other factions then voted. We know that there is only one argument against our bill that the decision of the Constitutional Court has been formulated in such a way that today it is possible to remove the immunity from the deputies and the judges, there is another procedure, and there is the President, there is another procedure altogether. I don't want to, my friends, criticize our Constitutional Court, it's the very fair and humane court that in its own time admitted that Leonid Kuchma had not a second term, but a first term. Then the Constitutional Court admitted that we had lived from 2010 to, I'm sorry, from 2005 to 2010, wrongly because it had abolished the Constitution, contrary to common sense, constitutional procedure and the Constitution. And I have made more decisions that I think will be ashamed of than just the members of the Constitutional Court, but the whole of Ukraine should be ashamed of such decisions. So today we would not have to appeal to the political biased decision of the Constitutional Court that adopted it, supporting the President in order not to balance him, but today to rephrase all the arguments. And by voting, well, I think, no less than 400 votes, I should go to the Constitutional Court. And to say that friends, in a country where the vast majority of people, unfortunately, don't trust the President, the Supreme Council, the judiciary, we've crossed a line beyond which there's no going back. If most societies today do not take power as such, if most societies do not believe in this authority, what is the legitimacy of these decisions that are taken by the government, the President, or the Supreme Council? The first serious step to regain confidence and restore this social legitimacy, without which no authority in the country is possible, is to eliminate this feudal norm on the integrity of the President, the judges and the national MPs of Ukraine. I am convinced that today all factions will vote in favour of our bill and we will be actively involved in this work. Once again, without balancing these rights, there is no point in saying that there will be a change for the better in Ukraine. Look at all the reforms initiated by the President and the government of the current cabinet. Even if some of these reforms were designed correctly, they are doomed to failure because they have no support in society. No initiative of authority will ever be supported, even if it is good. So today, when journalists went to inform the President of the map of corruption in Ukraine, they were not allowed to go even to Medjugorje to map corruption in the country. Friends, so we're soon, so we're not just closing down the mayor, the district administrations, and the border, then the whole areas will soon be closed down. Perhaps an official will decide not to enter the territory of the area. They'll be untouched by half the cities or some garage cooperatives and stuff. So if we don't take this step today, I'm sure there will never be any respect for any authority or power today, or any other power, in the Ukrainian state. Today, the requirement of Ukrainian society is that each official be held accountable. So, dear friends, there is a unique possibility today -- the slogan of a lot of people that they talked about at different times: that the law is one for all. To make it a rule, to vote on our bill, to support the united opposition, to demand that the Constitutional Court not prejudice the conclusion, and to ensure equality before the law. We are united opposition to the belief that neither the President nor the judges nor the national deputies fear responsibility before the law and today all support our bill as one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u59	Please sign up for the question to Mikola Volodymyrovich. Kirilo Kulikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u60	Good afternoon, colleagues! I think the adoption of this bill is very important for removing the inviolability of all judges, presidents, national MPs. It should only be taken into account that the MPs should not be responsible for their political actions. I want to ask if it's prescribed in the law. Because I've seen several different versions. And I'm using, for example, personal parliamentary immunity when I'm fighting bulls in the streets, when they're destroying my city of Kiev, the church and everything. Would that be true of this inviolability? Because, as far as I can tell, this mess, when people get hit, when MPs get hit, it doesn't matter to them. Is it in the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! We've gone our separate ways and we've come out of that story that we can't find any mechanisms of partiality, transition and all. We live in a country where, if you're in opposition, you're at least twice a deputy or a deputy of six calls, if the task of the police is not to let you go to someone, or you're asked to hit you in the head, they're going to hit you all at once. And no one will be responsible for that. So I'm having a discussion today with my fellow MPs who are talking about what, well, in today's conditions, let's say opposition MPs can suffer if this decision is made. I have a question. What prohibits the authorities today? When we were sitting in the court of Tymoshenko, Kiev, what did OMON deputies not beat on their feet and on their heads?Oh, my God! What, he asked if you had any touch or not? When there's a rally going on today. And there was a rally yesterday. What if the gas had to run that, asked whether there were deputies standing or not? Guys, let's not think of any arguments that prevent us from making this process. Just as in history, for example, Mr. Cyril knows his colleague well, you might say. He is the only one fighting for Kyiv, and that colleague is destroying Kyiv. Leonid Chernewicki, they tell him they want to support him now and make him a deputy. Imagine, then, that after such a story, we, even Chernewsky, do not give God, will be elected deputy for this Greek, so today the authorities are afraid to open criminal cases against him, he is not a deputy. And he'll be a deputy, then they won't open. So, my friends, we went our separate ways. This means that all national deputies are accountable to the law as are ordinary citizens. So we didn't leave any compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u62	Ruslan Knazevich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u63	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, the point is that, according to the Rules, we today have a variation in what decision we can make. One of the decisions is proposed in the agenda for the inclusion of this bill in the agenda, and the other is in the Rules, which states that, at the same time with inclusion in the agenda, we can decide to send it to the Constitutional Court so that the Constitutional Court can reach a conclusion, because now, under the Constitution, without the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, we cannot approve it. Would the authors mind if today, for example, we now made a decision that we have traditionally made. And I think there's going to be a consensus in the session room because we recently made a similar decision from another bill and sent it to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u64	Of course, it was the MPs who authorized me not to slow this process down, and if there is a session room agreement, we supported our proposal that we not only include ourselves in the agenda, but also approve the decision, send it to the Constitutional Court. We need to speed up this process. What's more, once again, my friends, here's for those colleagues, and I've tried to be very correct, because as a deputy and vice-speaker I've always respected Parliament's decision, I respect all the speeches by the national deputies, and I've always followed the view that the stenographers of the Supreme Council don't burn, so you can always see who was talking. And I picked up a transcript of the October 2009 debate, where the vast majority of our colleagues, most of whom are here, some of them in the President's Office, became President, after that 2009 debate, took the same position as I say. This position, I think, can't change in them since 2009, they have to take the position they were then. By the way, let me remind you, there were, well, about 400 votes, record voting was a little bit of a place back then. And I, of course, think that if we made this decision in 2009, there's no need to follow the agenda today, and then vote and refer it to the Constitutional Court. This should be the only vote. We must refer this matter to the Constitutional Court, ask the Constitutional Court to consider it immediately so that we can move quickly on this disgraceful matter of dividing the Ukrainian society into two castes or two categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, thank you. Question time is up. Sergei Mishchenko, head of the Committee on Legal Policy Please refer to the committee's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u66	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! I want to say the legal component of this bill because Mikola Volodymyrovich painted very clearly and professionally the problems that exist in Ukraine with regard to the caste of the untouchable. So it's very easy to explain the legal point of view, because in the Constitution, if this law is adopted, in those articles where there is the word "inviolability" with regard to MPs, the President, the judges, there will be no more. And there are arguments by some representatives of the majority, I don't want to call them names, but they say that our law, which also applies to the integrity of the President and the deputies, has the conclusion of a negative Constitutional Court. So I have the conclusion of the Constitutional Court and the content of that law, which is not really called the removal of the inviolability, but the guarantee of inviolability for individual officials. So what did the Constitutional Court conclude on the law of Yanukovic, Lavrinovich? He referred to the change in the order in which the President was drawn and removed in 105 articles concerning the President. Now it's the order of impeachment. Now this order of impeachment under the bill should not be, but the Supreme Council's consent should be 226 votes. That's why the question was when the president came up because the president was different. So they tried to press on the President to say, "We have 226 votes, and we can bring criminal responsibility." But the intrusiveness remains, and the Supreme Council's consent remains. And that's why the Constitutional Court's conclusion was to change these terms: impeachment and consent to be held accountable. And we suggest that the authors suggest that the concept of the President's integrity should not be in the Ukrainian Constitution at all. Moreover, in Slovakia, the president has no such intrepidity. What's more, I want to give an example of one small but proud faction that we have in Parliament that said that "we are actually the president. Cannot initialise It's not supposed to be in Ukraine." So the question is what can and can be done is to remove the word "president" from the Constitution and define the Prime Minister as head. There's no problem. So the word "inviolability" can be removed, as in Slovakia, according to the president. And the Constitutional Court. Let him decide. But to say in advance that he considers it unconstitutional, the conclusion now for the Constitutional Court to say, well, first of all, it is inappropriate for him to decide for the judges of the Constitutional Court what he will say. Although there is a hypothetical way to draw conclusions. What's more, I want to say that in terms of the independence of judges, you see what the judicial system exists today: these judges aren't afraid of anything, they're serving different sentences: the first instance, the second instance, the appeal, the case, the Supreme Court. We have to put the end down sometime! The judicial system - yes, it must be independent, but this independence does not apply only to the inviolability of these judges. They must answer before the law, before those who have appointed them, before society. And as for the committee, I can tell you why I'm a co-author, so this is about the committee. [[I'm co-author of this bill, I have the right to talk about it.]] The committee's scheduled for tomorrow because we only had him come to the committee last week. Tomorrow will be a review of this bill on the committee. And according to the committee's practice, when we were directing and preparing our decisions, we were preparing a decision to include it in the agenda and to refer it to the Constitutional Court at the conclusion, in general, that was the case. Separately to the agenda and to the Constitutional Court, this has never been the case. It's the first time I've seen that. That's why we need to make a decision today, and we need to send it to the Constitutional Court right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u68	And so today we can conclude that what the Bolsheviks wanted -- then they were minority -- could happen now. We must vote for this inviolability, the removal from everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, questions. One moment, Sergey Grigorovitch! Questions to you. I'll have the first question if you'll allow me to see my colleagues sign up. Would you please tell us that we are dealing with this issue in general today if we were to open the Rules and read article 145, 146? I understand that the political process is of interest to all of us, and are we empowered to consider this question, is it ready for consideration today? Do we simply consider it in order to talk and then say that we are in favor of making this decision? I understand that everyone likes it. One minute! One minute, I have the right to ask questions. And don't scream, please! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for asking. You know that the formation of the agenda is not the responsibility of the Committee on Legal Policy. I understand that most have made decisions that the committee has not expressed today's agenda. So that's the question of what, that's why. But we thank you for putting it on today. And so we need to find out, find out, who today is in charge of removing the intrusiveness from everyone, so that this caste does not come and all. So we are grateful that you did.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u71	Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u72	Mr. Chairman of the committee, well, actually, here's a discussion about whether we actually did not make the same or alternative bills. But as for me, it's quite theoretical here, because unfortunately, that bill that was voted on and was the subject of a constitutional court hearing, it's even named another. He's talking about providing guarantees of inviolability, and this is about undoing the inviolability of everyone without exception. When it comes only to MPs, there's no agreement to the end that it's not just about the President, or even about the judges. So for me, this bill is broader, more fundamental, and it's just a small fragment of this bill, so you can't call it alternative. And that's why we have the authority to deal with this issue, and I support you in that. And so I think the committee's opinion here is unanimous, if it wasn't, the committee wouldn't have made a decision if it had made that decision unanimously, so there's no objection to constitutionality and regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u73	Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u74	Thank you. Indeed, there was such a problem in not registering the bill in view of the fact that it, we will say so, has an alternative to the bill that exists. But I want to confirm the same thing as when I said that when I reported the bill that there was no in touch with the bill that the authorities were proposing, it wasn't going to work. There are guarantees of this inviolability. I mean, for the MPs in that bill, it'll be even better. Because arresting and detaining a member of parliament is possible only after the judgment of a court of law. So the MP won't go into any of the following actions, he won't come in for questioning, he won't come in for an indictment, and they'll pull the case. But he can't be detained, there's no reason to question him. He's even better for the MP, the one that the authorities are offering. That's why it's a guarantee to the MP. And to say that there's some in touch, you don't have to say that. It's him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u75	Vladimir Filenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u76	Dear Sergey Grigorovich, try to predict how the faction of the Party of Regions will vote in favour of the bill, as they know how panicful President Janukovic is. He falls off a rabbit, refuses to fly a precious helicopter because he was told it was dangerous. Four new armored Mercedes were purchased for him. It is provided by 150 police officers from Mezigiriya. During a press conference at the Ukrainian House, he was protected by over 500 militiamen. He fears his people terribly, fears the loss of power, fears the loss of the Midianites. So how do you think the factions of the majority will vote in favour of this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u77	I'm not an oracle. But if the brothers, when voting, remember the three bills on removing parliamentary immunity and referring it to the Constitutional Court, all three then supported the entire parliament. I'm sure that now, if the authorities aren't afraid, if they're not afraid, they're going to vote for removing the inviolability and the judges who are now making inadvertent decisions against the leaders of the opposition. And with respect to the President, and with regard to the deputies. Let it be against the opposition MPs. But if they are not afraid of it, they will take the first step today and vote. We'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u78	Thank you, sit down. Thank you, time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, let's essentially go to the question. I would now ask you carefully without shouting or interrupting to hear what I have to say. First of all, we had a decision on the Conciliation Council and there was an agreement, if you want with representatives, leaders of opposition factions, that this issue would be put in order the day after the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Order for the First Bill. Such a political compromise was found. And when this issue was asked today for inclusion in the agenda, it was once again agreed on the position of the Conciliation Council decision. But when this issue was raised, inclusion. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, you listen, and then there'll be a denial. Listen, I'm asking you to listen. But today we do. Well, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u79	You only have the truth, and everyone has the truth. When the presentation, or presentation of the bill, took place, the honourable colleagues found that the committee had not considered the matter and had not made the appropriate decisions that Ruslan Knazevitch had spoken of. So let's put our emotions down, and we'll get out of the way, because it's sensitive and it's necessary, and everyone's willing to talk, but we can't, and we shouldn't, and we can't, and we can't, let's not, in the process of preparing this question before it's brought to the Constitutional Court. Accordingly, article 145 of the Rules provides an answer to 15 questions. Right, Sergey Grigorovich, am I saying? He must answer 15 questions, then draw conclusions based on the answers to these 15 questions, prepare a draft ruling to specify, include in the agenda is one, include it in the agenda, and send it to the Constitutional Court is the second ruling. Third, to put it in the agenda and to publish it for human discussion, that's the third decision. You can see it as a solution. That is why we can talk about this today, and we can now make a decision by listening to the report and not even a report because it was a speech as co-author of the bill, not a committee head, to have the committee prepare the issue as required by the Rules and the Constitution. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! I want to tell you again, listen. To entrust the committee when it is ready and when it says that the matter is ready for consideration, consider it with a practical decision. I think I'm proposing correctly, except for emotion, there's a healthy logic. Do you want to continue to discuss it without a decision? Please sign up for the factions. Sign up. Please. And then it's from the deputies. Please show me your name. Next, please sign up for the nationals. Names on the board, please. John the Rabbit, please, from the faction. Then – Steshenko, then – Kamchatny, then – Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u80	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we must first heal our society and ourselves. Because there are so many MPs who have come into politics, not to reconcile individual interests with national interests, but to protect their group interests, to flee from the law, to use their service position to enrich themselves and, at the same time, to rob ordinary people. So our power is not the power of a democratic state, either by its own purpose or by its own quality or by its structure, nor is it the authority of an independent state. It is clear, therefore, that one such technology, the cleansing of this power, is the removal of that over-deputy immunity, the inviolability of MPs. We have to say that there are already mechanisms in place in the world to ensure justice in this area. Because we have this practice that people who have large funds, they bribe the courts, they bribe the prosecution, they bribe the police, and they run away from responsibility, and the simple people are responsible for all the sins, somewhere the child has stolen something, and we've already got four years of a colony or something. So I don't think we're going to be able to move away from this bill. Sooner or later, we're going to have to decide whether or not we're going to touch it. But what is the correct question? That we need to look at this problem, in general, in power, because the Party of Regions, they want to go so partially towards solving this problem. Let's just cut the immunity from the MPs, then we'll go after them using repressive authorities and we'll take full control of these Ukrainians. A distant example, don't go -- yesterday's vote under the Language Policy Act. Last week the regionals claimed that they had no votes to adopt the law. But it took a week to buy it, call it to the National Security Council or the President's Administration and show them some paper, some help and say, "You don't act in accordance with national interests, you don't think about your nation, you think about your skin today or we'll rot you." This is what the Party of Regions offers us today in exchange for what we need to look at in a comprehensive way at solving this problem: both the President and the courts, and many other high-ranking people, because these high-holders are running with torches today, and they're always setting us on fire to Ukraine, and they don't want peace. That's why I'm in charge of deciding the principle of this issue and voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u81	Yes, John Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." The next one is Valery Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u82	The Honorable Presidium! Dear colleagues! Our project, which we are currently discussing in spite of what has now been said from the high rostrum, that there are some violations and so on, should be considered and voted on. And we insist on that principle. Once standing in the order of the day, consider finally and vote, and end wickedness and pharisaicism around this issue. That's the first one. The other one. Our project, that's the answer, we're going to be open to the next initiative of the party of power to undo only the parliamentary immunity. Friends, why, three years ago, when a similar bill under my authorship and Viacheslav Kirilenko was not for elections, but immediately after the parliamentary elections, why didn't you vote for the bill? Now, under the election, the tenth mentioned that we need to collect "a very crazy electoral future crop," sorry for the Russianism. The Pharisees are clear. Next. Whatever the case, the further and deeper our history, the more understood the anachronism of such an phenomenon as the intactness of all. Impunity breeds impunity. Impunity every day gives birth to volunteerism. All of this then gives rise to a feedback from society, a lack of confidence in authority, total aggression, and hatred. And there's the phenomenon of self-justice, that's the answer to society, and that's just the beginning. So we have to cancel everything and everything, just like the civilized world did. Come on, guys, get out of here. Impunity and volunteerism led to what was destroyed, contrary to the Constitution, small and medium-sized enterprises, monopolizing the economy as in the Middle Ages. 4-5 families put 2/3 of their national assets and wealth in their hands, where else, my friends? And look at the law enforcement system, if it isn't the highest crime detection in Europe, and everyone knows how it's done. 99 percent of those convicted or convicted. There's no protection in the law enforcement system, no security system! And from here, the most important reference to the European Court of Justice is to whom? Ukrainian citizens. Why? But because 30 percent of them are sitting for nothing, starting with political prisoners. What is Julia Timoshenko and Lucenko, and dozens of other political prisoners? For what? This is intactness, impunity, and volunteerism. It's time to put an end to this! Let's do without pharisaism, vote today, and that's the chance to put Ukraine on the path of civilization. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u83	Ivan Grigorovitch, one minute, I'm on my way. Just a minute. Valerius Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, our MP group, Reforms for the Future, is hard to blame for our opposition to this idea. I want to remind you that among those who signed this application are five deputies from our group. This is just in case, dear fellow believers, remember this. As to whether it is a Pharisee or not, I think today it was very convenient to remind Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko that we had been living under the wrong Constitution for five years. Why was it annulled by the Constitutional Court? Because the procedure was violated. That is why we today support the proposals made by our Head, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, to follow the Rules. Because a slow-moving mine will be set up, and one day this mine will explode if the Rules are broken. That's why we support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u85	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ruslan Knazevich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, if you ask the question by the rubé, the Party of the Regions, in fact, “for” or “against”? I'll be honest with you, we're in. But we are absolutely against serious issues in the State being resolved by the name of the revolution, as was spoken by one fiery speaker. By the name of revolution, in violation of the laws and the Constitution, we will do so. When we make the name of the revolution, we will never bring any question to a logical conclusion. And when we're under the rules, we'll bring it in. Please, the Language Act. In accordance with the Rules, we discussed it, yesterday we voted on the Rules, thank you, the opposition, the Fatherland, the Change Front, I say, for Western Ukraine, that you supported the language law, thanks to your support, the law was voted on. Thank you, yes, you have made your contribution to the consolidation of Ukraine, the Ukrainian society. Now, as far as the bill is concerned. We have always written down in our programme that we have advocated and advocated the elimination of parliamentary benefits. In order to achieve a logical end, however, it was necessary to proceed with the procedure and to vote. When the vote was taken, the Party of the Regions and the majority voted. We've taken away the MP's benefits, and the apartment's free, and the travel, the material aid, everything in the past. But unfortunately, neither the Fatherland nor the Front Winterfell voted, nor did the other opposition vote! Although it seemed like they were yelling, the shirt was torn. Now, with regard to the elimination of inviolability. We have introduced our bill, according to the procedure, all steps have been taken. It is under consideration. That is why it is broader, we support that it is broader. And he takes away the integrity of both the President and the judges. And we're in. But in order for it to come to a logical end, like the Language Act that you supported and voted for. How can we eliminate the benefits that we have voted on without your support? In accordance with the procedure, the Committee should be given the opportunity to consider. The relevant decision should be taken by the Committee and then placed in the Chamber. And we will allow the Constitutional Court to decide. We'll support you, yes. But we want this to not end with a chat. We want this to end with a concrete decision. A specific decision will only be taken when the procedure, the Rules and the Law are followed. As for the Book of the languages you have supported, thank you very much. Without your support, the law would never have been voted on! Unfortunately, however, you did not support the elimination of parliamentary benefits. Thank you! We'll support your law only according to procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u87	Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Arsenius Yatsenuk, please. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u88	Honorable Members of Parliament! In response to a previous speech by a representative from the Party of Regions, I would like to ask him where the end is logical, where you will finally cancel the parliamentary immunity, the Presidential, the judges, cancel all the benefits and agree to adopt the Law on the Order of Impeachment. I understand your personal concern, because in the event of the annulment of the integrity of the people's deputies, you still have a great deal to take responsibility for your work as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. And this time will come. [[Applause]] Now it's about the substance of the law. Our colleague, Mikola Tomenko, made the right decision and passed the bill. The law provides for the elimination of immunity not only from the Ukrainian National Deputies, because it is clear what is the abolition of intactness from the Ukrainian National Deputies and such an initiative by the Party of the Regions is linked, firstly, to the elections, and secondly, not all the Party of the Regions has been incarcerated. But we are not afraid of taking away the parliamentary integrity. However, I would like to remind you that, in 2008, I personally voted the third time on the issue of the abolition of parliamentary immunity. No member of the Party of the Regions, none, I emphasize, nor the current President Janukovic, who was then the national deputy of Ukraine, nor did anyone else vote in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity. The opposition therefore insists, first of all, on the removal of parliamentary immunity from the President of Ukraine. The second is the removal of parliamentary immunity from all Ukrainian national deputies. The third is to remove the MP's immunity and other immunity from 9,000 judges. And fourthly, I would like to point out that even if the Constitution's rule removes the President's inviolability, such a President will not bear any responsibility to the people of Ukraine. That is why the opposition brought the Ukrainian Law on the Order of impeachment to Parliament. And we want the first one to go under the impeachment of the current President Yanukovic. In view of this, we demand the adoption of this law. We demand that we remove the integrity of the President, of the MPs, of the 9,000 judges, of the 9,000 Koreans. We demand that a decision be taken on the establishment of an institution of impeachment of the President and that the opposition submit to Parliament the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Callback of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Then all will be equal before the law. Please uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u89	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u90	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Since I never blocked or interfered with the work of the courts, I didn't contradict the President's Administration's pants, I can talk first of all about the MPs, about the job I know, and where we actually are here. The question is certainly twofold: meaningful and procedural. Procedural is also important, it actually becomes meaningful, because any change to the Constitution is not just technology, it's not just a mechanism. It is up to them whether this decision will be implemented or whether it will remain at the root of electoral debates and beautiful debates. As far as the meaningful side is concerned. Clearly, the so - called int touch in Ukraine is hypertrophysic. And we've seen it even when henprocurorate made some representations at the time, and we haven't looked at them in the Supreme Council, trying to send them to a committee, and we haven't even considered in the session room taking or not taking what Henprocuror demanded. So let's face it, the very term "inviolability" is wrong, it's distorted, it's one that doesn't match the very name "national deputy of Ukraine," it's not a parliamentarian. Ukraine’s national deputy should not be untouchable. This could otherwise be qualified as guarantees, implementations or guarantees to protect the interests of their citizens, their constituents. And these guarantees should only be that I can stand up freely on the rostrum, that I will not be punished when, when I apply to the demands of my constituents, I appeal to the prosecutor's office, I make an offer. law enforcement agencies and stuff like that. In that sense, we can consider this question. Dear colleagues! Those who served in the army were so aware that not all of them were serving, serving, and remembering. Yeah, I served, you didn't serve, I know that. Well, that's all right. I remember well that there is order in the military, order in which this military unit works and acts under the statute. In this case, I've got enough weird thinking that we have to vote now. I ask you, Your Honor, to make your decision and to draw the conclusions of the committee, for which I and our faction must vote. You know it's not there, and you don't have to make a serious question into a completely ordinary pyar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Bondik will be next instead of a colleague of Blackmaorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u92	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! You hear a lot of talk about the MP's immunity, about her cancelling. I want to dispel the myths right away. And so, the first myth that existed. The fact that now the Party of Regions, its satellites are trying to undo the parliamentary immunity. I remind you that "inviolability" within the meaning of article 80 of the Constitution is made up of three moments. First. You can't bring a deputy to criminal responsibility. We can't hold it. And you can't arrest him. So it's deleted by "attraction," because it's deleted when it's adopted by a completely absurd, mindless Criminal Procedure Code, and now they've brought in a code. They want to bring the Constitution into line with the code. But they expanded the integrity of the project, which is what the Chechetov colleague was talking about, extended to what could not be done without the consent of the Supreme Council to arrest or arrest the defendant. That's it. That is, the formula was applied to judges in the Constitution. That's right, take off the touch. I address every Ukrainian. It's a noodle on your ears. Know this, it's not true. Now, about this project. I'd like to make it clear that the project completely cancels any kind of immunity. There is complete touch. Touching, I think, will be the heads of administrations that were sometimes called governors. Ladies and gentlemen, do we have Ljovczyn working or is he the head of the administration? Do we have anyone else in Yanukovic besides "lookin'" for areas? Ban them from calling themselves governors, ban them from "thirty" budget money, ban them from wearing $100,000 watches, because poorer areas, and they do it all! I'm going to publish all this stuff for the day. But I would like you to know clearly that today we cannot make a normal decision, and it is good that we are discussing it. I am extremely grateful to my colleague Tomenek for asking a wide question. And the 18 judges of the Constitutional Court should know that they will also be condemned for their anti - Ukrainian action, for raping the Constitution, for changing the constitutional system, for giving up the owner of the Interigir, for having solved political repression. But we have to act legally purely. That's why I'm addressing you, Comrade Tomenko: I would like you to point out that the right Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin is saying that 145 articles of the Rules say we need 15 conclusions of the committee. This time. But wrong Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litwin, when he opposed article 10 of the Anti-State Constitution yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u93	That's not the point. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u94	I'm done. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will conclude because the Constitution is the measure of the actions of each and every one of us, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's nice or unpleasant, you didn't have to do that project last night.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u95	Thank you. Thank you. Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the distinguished Presidency! The previous speaker made it very clear that we should use the Constitution in our activities. Thus, according to the constitutional principle, everyone in Ukraine must act within and in the manner prescribed by law. It's a Constitution, a quote. Dear colleagues, a few drawings of such a general and private issue. First, the faction's position, it's open and honest: we're not voting against this law. Why? Because, like you, the opposition, we're in favour of changing the status of the people's deputies, we're in favour of changing the integrity. And by the way, it's a purely formal thing to touch. The MP has always been untouched, because according to the rules of the current procedural code, if there is a submission, you and I are taking off what is called, intact and responsible. So, you know, this question is questionable. But we are not offended by the opposition; we are only addressing it, fellow believers, the people have given you the right to represent this nation. The representative authority, according to the percentages, the percentages that have been won in the elections. So, I ask you to join the Constitutional Assembly, which can legitimately work out all the changes that the bill's author, Mr. Mikola, has said, and to make, because the Constitutional Assembly, it was created in accordance with the President's decree and is an auxiliary body to the President of Ukraine. And it's headed by, by the way, a man who is balanced with everyone, as it were, branches in this House, and to the opposition, and to the coalition, President Krawczuk's first. Dear colleagues, today there have been calls that we should act with you, indeed, in accordance with the Rules. So according to the Rules, you and I have already voted with a majority vote on May 24 and directed this decree to where? They were sent to the Constitutional Court. So join this Order when it comes from the Constitutional Court and we will bring this matter up. But you know, according to the Constitution, we can't even go to the Constitutional Court right now and send this project to the Constitutional Court because there's no committee conclusions because there's no committee conclusions. And the right was Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin Speaker of Parliament, what he said. We, by the way, well, I get it, it was political harmony to bring this project forward. And he wasn't supposed to vote today. So, dear colleagues, I urge you, let's look for consensus, because both we and you are for removing the MP's immunity. As far as the judges are concerned, we can't influence you here, because these are European requirements, the judges, really, we are chosen, not for life, but for time indefinite. This is what is done throughout Europe, and Europe is telling us. There's nothing we can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u97	Taras Cranville, non-factional. BobiIov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! When we talk about the concept of inviolability and so forth, I have some references to my old bad history in Soviet times when our family was being persecuted by the KGB, and when we were asking questions and saying that it was illegal, the answer was that we had unwritten laws. We have an open mind for a very narrow circle of persons. But when you look at the practice of court decisions, see how criminal cases are opened, there is the impression that you are not the only ones who have the same heads of government, ministers, businessmen who can pay, that there is inviolability in the masculinity, that there is in the ugly ones who can arrange with the judge, and so on. Clearly, then, the issue must be resolved from all sides. First. The absolute perseverance of punishment for those for whom immunity does not extend. And a mandatory review of the principles of integrity. There are two extremes. There is a bill that has gone a little further, which today in the Constitutional Court, where, unfortunately, I am convinced of this very little, very little, of the problem of the immunity of deputies. It needs to be expanded. There is no answer to such, say, things as to what to do with a deputy who was caught at the crime scene, a deliberate murder running with a gun. We have people who don't have psychiatric expertise in the Supreme Council, remember that. And we don't know who's coming in the fall. How can we deal with such people? Obviously, this must be done, and this has been decided in many lands. This law, which is now undergoing changes before. which has already gone through the first stage, it does not answer either this or many other questions. He's very weak, I think. This law, which is proposed, provides for much more stringent formulations. And I think it would be most logical for us to pass both the Constitutional Court and then have a position on both laws. And try the second reading procedure in another way to unite. Because both have their imperfections, but both bear the benefits that are needed. So I, who is not a member of any union and opposition, and I express it very harshly and critically, but who is also a co-author of this law and changes to the Constitution, because I have also signed it, because I think it is necessary that there be more harsh things than what went on in the project that I propose today to the Supreme Council to take such steps. Now we literally have five minutes to break. There is nothing to discuss, and they need to make a formal decision. Our Committee on Foreign Affairs, when there is an urgent need, meets in five minutes on the third floor and makes immediate decisions that all reporters and all relevant authorities need to hear. Similarly, at 12: 30 a.m., the issue of voting before the Constitutional Court was settled without any interruption. Let's make a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u99	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u100	Let there be claims that we can take them into account, and perhaps bring together two projects and a second reading to produce a project that will actually preserve the guarantees of performance, but will remove from all those who are today what is called inviolability and what cannot be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u101	Thank you. Bobilov, please. A group called Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u102	Alexander Bobylev, the MP's "Reforms for the Future". Dear colleagues! To tell you the truth, since my arrival in the Supreme Council, every day we hear about the removal of the MP's integrity. Everyone says, everyone promises and nobody does anything. Let us think a little bit about the fact that there is a Constitution, there is a law, and all laws must go through a procedure. Today, the Chief of the Supreme Council spoke very correctly, and it is necessary to prepare it properly, not for lists, not for lists, not for electorate, but to prepare it in a way that is really what it is. We've all had no immunity before the MPs, we're leaving the deputies, we're not gonna have it again, and it's no big deal, it really has to be done. Now I'd like to talk to you about someone else. Here we have a lot of critics of the law enforcement system, probably 10 people who worked in the system who know what it is when serious crimes are committed, 20-year-old boys work 15-16 hours a day without holidays, and they can't be criticized all the time. After all, they are human, and they want to live too, and at a salary of one and a half thousand bracelets and a member of the 13th, there may be a slight difference. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u103	Thank you. One minute. Bolura, please, the "BUT is the Fatherland" faction. The bologna passes the right to speak. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u104	Yes, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that's how you found someone yesterday, you were set up by your subjects today. Yesterday you tried to push along with the majority, the language law is shameful, today you were set up and asked this question to include the agenda. So we demand that you put it into the agenda, because it was an agreement on the Conciliation Council, and it's true. There was no agreement that this issue should be addressed to the session room. And one more thing. The Faction "BUT is the Fatherland" and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" have stated on several occasions that we stand for a complete difference of inviolability for all persons. A bunch of regions and most of them, they're playing around with this question, you know, they need to pyrate about something, pick up their hundreds, they don't take it, they lose it. So this is a very interesting expression by Lavrinovich and Herman, I repeat, and I repeat, reverend. They said that whatever position a person was in, whether he was in office as president, whether he was elected as a national deputy, or in court, all of them were required by the law of Ukraine. And in the case of acts that have signs of crime, a criminal case must be brought against this person. Lavrinovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Here's the deal. Dear colleagues, let's continue now to make a final decision and then announce a recess. Is there no objection? The closing statement of Mikola Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I am grateful for the serious conversation that has taken place most of the time. And, frankly, I would ask political and parliamentary clowns, when it comes to such a serious issue, to read newspapers somewhere, to get coffee, because despite all the contempt of the Supreme Council, Ukrainian society, in this Parliament, there are people in every faction who, I'm sure, are also hurting to have a parliament in Ukraine, and that there be power and opposition in Ukraine, to which both Ukraine and beyond have been treated with respect. If this circus that you're trying to bring to Parliament is going to be the norm, then we just have to write statements and leave this room and not embarrass this session hall or the word "the Supreme Council of Ukraine." [[Applause]] And I would ask the parliamentary majority, maybe do some enlightening work with these clowns and state-of-the-art provocators, so that when small questions are considered, let them speak and play the clown. And when a serious question is being considered, more than 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens are asking us to cancel these feudal things. More than 90 percent, while clowns appear in a session hall and play with toys. Second position. It's about how the opposition worked. I'll keep you posted. We all voted in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity in 2008. We all are.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u107	Lies, no one voted, from the parliamentary majority, were voted by as many as 226 deputies of the Fatherland faction and "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". In 2009, and it's true, in 390 votes, we voted all factions in favour of abolishing the inviolability of both the President and the judges and the deputies. A few weeks ago, we voted in favour of the procedure for removing the immunity from the MPs??Our bill, introduced by the Party of the Regions. Today's fourth vote, and we're going to vote in favour of this decision, just like all previous votes. Now on the proposal for the Constitutional Assembly. I was convinced both in the days of Kuchma, and in the days of Yushchenka, and in the days of Yanukovitch, there can be no advisory council at the clerics of the President's Administration to write the Basic Law of Ukraine. This is the task of the Ukrainian Parliament by the consent of the Ukrainian people. There is no way outside the session room to determine the rules of life of the entire country and of the entire nation. That is why we are firmly opposed and in previous times to the previous presidents, and we will now oppose the writing of the Constitution in the Presidential Administration or the determination of the fate of the country. We need to create an appropriate parliamentary commission and within Parliament, think about the Basic Law. When it comes to changing the basic chapters, it is certainly approved in a referendum, as the Constitution of Ukraine states. So once again, colleagues, today's responsible vote, and we would ask today and we'd like to make a decision to take a comparison of everything to the fact that every citizen, every deputy, every judge and president knew that they were equal before the law and have equal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u108	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. It is obvious that before the election, everyone will stand for the abolition of parliamentary immunity and all will vote in favour of this decision knowing that there will be nothing on the way out. That the final decision is to be made by the next parliament, which it will be, is already the subject of elections and voter topics. So let's be realistic and go back to the Rules, or the Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. My offer is such, distinguished national MPs. To make a decision now, which is to vote for everyone. Postponing the decision until the draft decision is passed by a committee to be the object of the vote. If you don't support this proposal, I'll put another one in the agenda. Wait a minute! If you haven't read anything in your life, shut up! Please! Because this is a serious question, I propose once again and ask everyone to support it, because the committee head himself said that the committee had not considered it. The committee should consider, provide answers to all questions, and make a draft decision in which to propose the inclusion in the agenda. The other one. To include in the agenda and to refer to the Constitutional Court, to include in the agenda and to deliver, to propose to the public what proposals he will make, and to do so. So I'd like to take two suggestions. First, and this proposal matches the committee's proposal. We've considered the issue, and now we need to vote and postpone the decision until the committee considers the matter and the draft decision. If we don't support you to complete the logical process, I'll put you to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. If you don't support it, then you've been accepted. Therefore, the request that all and the constitutional majority agree to vote in favour of this proposal is to postpone the decision to the committee and to make the relevant draft decision. As soon as the draft decree is in place, we'll put it to the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's go to 20. 20 numbers to be considered. How's it going? June 20th to make a decision. What? Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich is honorable, let us get out of this situation somehow. All the committees are working today, they're sitting down. Let the committee consider the matter today and bring it in tomorrow so as not to stretch it to 20. Why 20? Let's do this, well, normally absolutely. And we'll look at it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u110	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, your honor, is an unusual question. You open Rules 145-146, the committee should answer 15 questions when considering this matter. That's why the author proposes 20. You're suggesting on. Well, let's make a decision. So I'm voting on a proposal that I've agreed with both the committee and the author to postpone the decision until June 20th until the Committee considers the matter and the draft decision. By the way, the draft decree should be given, read how many days there are, in 10 days, constitutional changes. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm asking everyone to vote. [[12:07:23]] For 404 Decision taken. Thank you. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! Please focus on continuing your work. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is being announced for consideration for inclusion in the agenda. [[on raising the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs and ensuring the fulfilment of the social obligations of the State]] The reporter is Vladimir Yavorowski. The reporter is Valérie Baranov. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u112	Dear voters! I passed this bill consciously. He brought it in because of what I think we would need to adopt a unique law sometime in the near future before the end of this session. The law that we live in a land of fairy tales. I think the president in this country should be known to all, Baron Munhausen. Why? The Party of Regions and the President promised everything they could promise for the people during the elections. Well, that's it. If not, instead of spring, it will be a regular summer and so forth. It was promised that wages, pensions, and so forth would be doubled. There's a completely reverse process going on. This is felt by every person in Ukraine, except a small group of people who are in power today. That's it. Because of this, the essence of my law is very simple and understandable. Increase the cost of living. In article 12 of our 2012 National Budget Code, the essence is that of Ukraine. So to increase the cost of living at least step by step, I won't waste time, to 1,095 dollars; to raise children up to 6 years of age to 961 bracelets; to children between 6 and 18 years of age to 1197; to work persons up to 1,134 bracelets; to raise people who have lost their jobs to 1,095 bracelets. And of course you have to make changes to the approved budget to make that money. I understand that many in this room will explain that there is no money, as they say, but to do such things yesterday after the anti-constitutional law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u113	Microphone, please. Do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u114	I'm done. A law was passed at the end of the day to reduce wages for many people, including the Chernobylites. Today, the Chernobyls have already made a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please don't disturb society. There is no position in this law on restrictions, suspensions, or difference in benefits. Read the law. There's nothing there. This was in the Transitional Situations, the opposition insisted on the expulsion of the Transitional Regulations and claimed that the law could then be voted on. So he was brought into human form to pay money for court decisions. And that's it. So let us be objective here. Valerius Baranov is head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u116	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, our committee has not considered this issue at its meeting because the findings of the Chief Apparatus Scientific and Scientific Administration have not yet been reached. But what I want to tell you is that if you put together all the money that's going to be in this project, you have to add 184 billion dollars to the government budget. The Ministry of Finance, therefore, does not support the bill and considers it inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction. Next is Gordien Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u118	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, well, here's the number, I don't know where it came from. The committee didn't consider it. As chairman of the committee, I would not allow myself to go out and speak on behalf of the committee if he did not consider the matter. There is no conclusion of the legal system. Of course, you could have been moved. But let us also talk about how much money is being stolen today. We were talking today about intactness. Our ministers seem to be touching. So explain to me, Boyko is touched or untouchable. 300 million at these surpluses, everybody knows about it, the whole press, yeah, dollars, we're talking about it. And it says here that people don't want to add literally pathetic ones to the minimum of living. Because, I think, if so, Vladimir Mikhailovich, then it is necessary, if there is no conclusion, not to consider the committee, well, then let's postpone the vote on this law, then let's postpone it to later. I think it's very important to people today to survive the poorest rows in Ukraine today. And it would be very normal for Parliament to give them a hand and support them. I think it's very normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u119	Thank you. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u120	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I'd like to draw the attention of my colleagues and Ukrainian citizens to the fact that when people are in power, they never initiate these kinds of laws, and when they're in opposition, they're initiated and they love our citizens so much, and they care so much about living minimum. I would like to remind you that in the previous government, for some reason, everyone who initiates today's social laws has not initiated similar changes to the state budget and other legislative acts. On behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I say that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has always been consistent. Whoever is initiating such bills will support them. Because, in fact, our people are living in a very, very small amount of social pay and the minimum that they are. But I'd like to put cynicism in the rest of the way. Because as long as we don't initiate and forget about people in power, and when we are in opposition, we love people so much that, as the Head of the Supreme Council sometimes says in his speeches, we are ready to smother them in our arms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u121	Grivkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u122	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u123	Don't insist. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u124	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! What kind of law does that make? A very simple law is to raise the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs and to ensure that the social responsibilities of the state are met. I'm the previous speaker who voted in favour of anti-Ukrainian and anti-Russian language policy laws yesterday, I'd like to say so. Speaking of opposition or morality of opposition or authority, let's take a look, so morally not, it turns out, Julia Timoshenko, whom you are destroying today, helping to destroy the Yanks, sitting in prison, giving a thousand years ago, and today you are giving a thousand, three times less. Is it moral or not? Therefore we have the equality of the rights of men, and you say, This is a thousand equal to that thousand. These are different things. As a result, for those who have lost their jobs, the offer to pay for July 1st, 1044 bracelets is a penny, much less a living minimum. But it has to be done, obviously. And thank you to my colleague Jaborowski for predicting this. It's more serious here in Transitions. Here they cancel and propose to cancel what I've offered you three times. During the adoption of the State Budget Bill 2010, 2011 for 201; during the submission to an anti-constitutional but unfortunately, constitutional court, which for two years does not open hearings. I am addressing the President of the country. Is there a guarantor here or not? For two years, the institution has decided between them, then declares the people. The laws on the status and social protection of citizens affected by Chernobyl, others.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u125	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u126	I'm done. Thank you. These laws, which are proposed to be removed and proposed to be financed, are funded by all authorities, by all prime ministers and by all presidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u127	Thank you. Thank you. Now, one minute. Easy. And then Chechtev. It's already been written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u128	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to support the Yavorowski bill, and I need to vote for it. There's nothing to tell that there's no money in the budget. Steal less, and there'll be money. But for justice's sake. Dear Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, don't say what you don't know. If you were in the Supreme Council Hall yesterday -- and I was, unlike you, a bill was passed to guarantee the execution of court decisions. People can't win these days: not the Chernobyls, not the children of war, can get the money out of court decisions. And so that bill that was voted on will allow for the execution of these judgments. But no one canceled the benefits. I was sitting in the hall myself, performing, controlling, and making it. And by the way, Martinyuk has to thank you for not giving in to regional pressure, and no one has canceled the benefits. Those statements that make, about the cancellation of the benefit, as if what happened, are unreliable statements that don't match the reality. I address Ukrainian citizens, the Chernobylites, the children of war, the Afghans, the other categories of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u129	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u130	to all categories of socially vulnerable citizens: the benefits are not cancelled, but there is a problem: the decision of the Constitutional Court is illegal, under which the government does not pay proper payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u131	Thank you. Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u132	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, the previous speaker, who spoke with total zeal, was absolutely right in one way: that we did not eliminate any benefits from yesterday's law. And the Party of the Regions, which has an increase in social standards, will never be able to eliminate benefits, especially since the elimination of benefits is the norm of the Constitution. We cannot reduce social standards under the Constitution. But the rights of another speaker, when he said that we must, both in power and in opposition, make laws, count money. We don't have enough money when we're in power. As soon as we're in position, we don't believe in law or money. And I think there will be order in the country when all deputies, regardless of political parties, at least in the opposition, while in power, passing bills, will count money, see real financial resources. I think that in the context of the implementation of the President's social initiatives, there will be a solution to the problem that has been posed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u133	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, my name has been mentioned. I want to remind Oleg Laszky about what happened after lunch. After lunch we weren't at the session, we ignored the session, which is why, of course, I did. But I'm reading a statement from the All-Ukrainian Union of Chernobyl veterans who write, well, I'm reading, "The Supreme Council of Ukraine suddenly changed its schedule of meetings and instead of June 7th today, June 5th, yesterday, ignoring its own regulations, passed the so-called safeguards law in a fraudulent way." Because, Oleg, I'm saying again, I'm referring, they've made a statement that seven numbers they're still going to be conducting their strikes. That's why I, I used this fact, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u135	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u136	Well, on the lines, there are no lines, please. Well, 30 seconds, please, no more replicas. What are you, respectable colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u137	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to stress again, I voted in favour of this law yesterday. If there was a relief, I would never vote for it, for the statements you're referring to, let people figure out before making those statements, let them read the text of the law. As far as protest action is concerned, the protests must be conducted and changed radically by the antisocial authorities that are in the country. But use not lying arguments that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u138	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. To close the subject, if possible, under Bill 9127 on Guarantees of Enforcement of Judgments, I inform you that why this matter has been brought forward, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The point is that the European Court of Justice had to decide on Ukraine that Ukraine did not comply with the decisions of European courts. I'm not saying that we have a third of the decisions of national courts just being implemented. This decision had to be made in order to make the decisions of the courts, including those of the internal courts, so that there would be no further decisions against Ukraine. If we get out of the way of what we need for Ukraine, I think it was the right decision. But we need to make sure that the following decisions don't happen, as we traditionally do when we adopt budgets or budget changes, social benefits and payments are cut. It's our shared responsibility, my dear fellows. Now that we have completed the discussion, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[on raising the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs and ensuring the fulfilment of the social obligations of the State]] Registration number 10382. Please identify yourself. [[12:57:55]] For-138 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 88, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 19, Communists – 25, People's Party, "Reforms" – 0, non-fractional – 6. Dear colleagues, the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine is under review. [[on increasing State guarantees for socio-economic development]] Registration number 10353. The reporter, Dmitri Schlemko, is. And who will be the co-reporter from the committee? Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u139	Perhaps there is no one in this Hall who has not rested once in the mountains, especially in the Carpathians. Natural beauty, clean air, therapeutic therapy, and human relationships are enchanted. For the resters, it's a paradise corner. However, the situation is quite different for those who live here constantly. Limitation of land for agriculture, dangerous natural phenomena and harsh climatic conditions, and frequent floods wash away roads, destroy bridges and crossings, rural streams, early winter and late spring, storms, underdeveloped networks of communication, lack of transportation, gasifications, the inability of children to get to school on time, get to a hospital or a doctor, lack of qualified personnel, nearly 70 percent of the unemployed, most pensioners to a minimum pension for their underpaid work, low wages for health, education and culture workers, much less life expectancy than the average per country, a high rate of population mortality, which is one-and-a-and-a-a-half times higher than the birth rate, is an incomplete list of the problems facing those who are currently living under conditions. So you can say with confidence that these are depressed mountain areas with a low standard of living. Today it is. The Basic Law on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine, adopted in 1995, is in force, but most of its positions are not being implemented. There is no state policy of social support for regions with complex natural conditions, which currently exists in virtually every country in the world, where there are mountain areas. We therefore propose that a number of proposals be put into law to improve the lives of the mountain ranges, including article 3, to complement the development of priorities for the development of mountain areas in the economic, social and environmental spheres of state support for investment projects. We think it's necessary to classify mountain habitats by a high rate of low, medium and high. This will be fair and on the basis of this classification of article 6 of the law before.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u140	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u141	According to the report, in high-rise locations located at a height of 600 metres above sea level, the size of state material assistance to citizens who have received the status of the person who works, resides, or learns in the territory increases by 40 percent and a number of other positions concerning the children of mountain people who are to enter the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u142	Thank you. Dmitri Vasilovich, thank you. Sergei Gordijenko, secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u143	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I would like to report on behalf of the committee that there is no state of affairs on 06.06 in the conclusion of the Main Scientific and Scientific Administration on the Committee. There is no financial justification in the bill, and there is a certain amount or significant amount of money. And from this point on, the committee has not yet considered the bill and is asking to be assigned a session hall for its inclusion in the agenda. On my own behalf and on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I say that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support its inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the exchange of information on this legislative initiative. Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u145	Yuri Hanustak. Ladies and gentlemen, there really is a need to deverse the population points. Because in an ecological and natural state, 400 meters and 600 meters is quite a difference. And this was about financial justification, actually not so many of those population sites. So 50 million, which are additionally required. It's a small amount, it goes proportionally to the number of population points that are now represented. So we have 700 points, and this is not more than 50, it's our calculations. And it's not all payouts, it's just extra payouts. Of course, the comments Minfin made, that they can't give these extra payments as a subsidy, rather as an additional grant. This can be taken into account in the second reading, this is an entirely appropriate proposal as well as a proposal to conform to the Tax Code to some of the rules that apply to taxation in these high-rise locations. In addition, it has to be said that with regard to the children living there, it is stated that if children learn at the expense of the actual state budget, the agreement is signed that they are going back to work in their places. Since there really is a need, no one is better off than children born in mountains where it is difficult enough to live, then they will not be able to work properly in this mountainous area. I support the idea that there is a difference between people who come to rest and those who live directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u146	Yes, Xenya Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Stanislav Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u148	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then there's Yuri Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u149	Dear National Deputies! Surely there is no doubt that this is an important question, that people living in the mountains or in the highlands of the land live in conditions other than those living in fertile lowlands. The problem is that the bill in force is actually not working. Why Not Working? Because there are virtually no numbers that can be budgeted or directed by the Ministry of Finance. There are general phrases: to promote, to help, to take action. I'll give you an example. In the Treblian Valley of Mižgir district, for 20 years, they've been gassing the National Park. There's no problem, not even a big one if we put it in the agenda. Because I know that the Cabinet of Ministers is preparing their bill, in fact, an alternative bill, and we can look at it together. This indicates that the relevance of this problem is already at the level of the State. When it comes to this bill, it only applies to those people who live in the upper part. So 600 and 1 thousand 200 or 1 thousand 400 meters above sea level. This is also another category of people living in such a mountainous area. I think 35 or 40 or 45 million for the pensioners, for the students, for the disabled, I think they deserve our attention. Many conflicts have been established in the current norm. For example, the State guarantees an increase in wages. Entrepreneurs are forced to increase their wages, they do it because of their cost, and they become, their business is not competitive compared to other businesses. The government transferred it to the hands of entrepreneurs. So this rule is also regulated that due to tax cuts, this rule is equalized. I think it's a very fair thing that comes with specific figures to make the Mountain Status Act finally work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u150	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very much, let's put it in the agenda so that people will know that we're taking care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u152	Thank you. Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, the history of this law has not begun today. The Second Assembly adopted the Mountain Villages Act. I think the references to the fact that this law doesn't work are random. I think that the concept, self-conception, the whole approach of these legislation is incorrect. Because, I think, any bill that provides for financing something special, something typical only of a particular region of Ukraine and of the State budget will always cause irritation in society. It is also possible that there is a problem in Donbass that cities are dying because of the closure of urban enterprises, which are usually mines that have developed their resources and cannot continue to work under new market conditions. And this is really only a matter of local interest, just local leadership, only the Donbass leadership. The problem of mountain villages is also of natural interest, particularly to the locals, to the Galician leadership. That is why I think that the very approach to this bill is incorrect. Within the framework of the country's strategic idea of regionalization, federal ideas should be developed, these expenditures should be translated into local budgets, into consolidated budgets in the areas. If the authors come up with such a bill, I think we could support the bill. In my view, the authors need to review the very concept of such a bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u154	Oleg Lazko, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u155	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm going to vote on this bill. Those who talk about Galicia may find it helpful to leave for at least a week in the mountains. And see how those miserable people live, and their children. And then, I think it's completely different for you to treat these people. We should not humiliate Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their circumstances! Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to welcome journalists, Ukrainian journalists with today’s professional festival! For many years, I worked as a journalist for 15 years before I was elected as Ukraine’s national deputy. He began writing while he was still in boarding school at the age of 14. In the days of Kuchma, I was tried, deprived of my will for three years, banned from writing, and banned from working in journalism. Today’s journalists are also banned from criticizing authority! Therefore, fellow believers, believe in your power, your word, do not serve any authority or opposition. Serve people, serve civil society, and serve the truth. And the Lord will help you! With a feast of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u156	Thank you, thank you. Question completed. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10353]] [[on increasing State guarantees for socio-economic development]] Please be sure, there is a vote coming. [[13:11:05]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Show me the factions, please. The Party of Regions is 2, "BUT" is 91, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 18, the Communists are 25, the People's Party, the Reforms is 0, the non-factional is 3. Dear colleagues, we need to consider another draft of the Law on Amendments to the Basic Health Legislation of Ukraine on the provision of health care for people with rare diseases. [[orphanne]] [[Registration number 10383]] Suskhevich Valerius, please. Let's vote now, let's include.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u157	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the concept of the bill is to define the legal status of patients with rare diseases, a disease that is not on average more than 1 in 2,000 people. My colleagues, I want to say that 75 percent of patients with rare diseases are children. And a few more not very good numbers are called. 35 percent of these children die by the age of 1 year, 10 percent die between 1 and 5 years, and 12 percent die by the age of 5 and 15. Dear friends, I would like to say that during the session, a small meeting of 55 national deputies at Savik Schuster's studio, everyone supported, all factions supported the need to save these children. And the question, the terrible question of a mother who asked the MPs why my child should die just because she lived in Ukraine, was that I could not listen. That is why, along with my colleague Karpuk, we have written this bill, which provides for the provision of medical care to people with rare pathologies who need adequate diagnostic and medical treatment. These families and children are expected to be provided primarily with mixtures, other foods, children with high - quality infant formulas, and other foods. My colleagues, I'd like to address you because we've all been so brightly supported in front of the cameras, all the things that touch these children, which unfortunately today, unfortunately, are still dying in Ukraine, and by which there is no legal norm to support them, to treat them and their lives in general. Our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u158	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u159	Our bill is aimed at providing this category with timely diagnosis and effective treatment and comprehensive rehabilitation. Please support the inclusion of it in the order of the day session.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u160	Thank you. Aunt Dmitry's bachelor. Please, what does the committee think about this? Supports the committee? The committee supports the inclusion in the agenda. Why don't we vote? Please, if you insist, please sign in. It's better to vote and put it into the agenda. Please have a name that insists on the performance. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u161	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This is precisely the case where it is not the author, but the law. And the Party of the Regions never looks at the authorship of the law. If the law is not really populist, it does not pursue any purely market-oriented political goals, but it does solve a major social problem, regardless of who initiates it, whether it comes from the Change Front, or from the Party of the Regions, or from the Company, or from the BUIT, it must be voted on. We adhere to that position and call on the opposition to support us in this regard. And we will certainly support this bill, and there is no other. We really are. The 60 deputies were practically on this transfer. All the deputies of all factions unanimously supported the bill. Therefore, thanks to the authors, the Party of the Regions will support the bill and we propose, and we turn to the opposition to take the example of Suškević and to introduce such bills. They will always find support in the hall and they will consolidate the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u162	Eugene Kirilchuk. Sergey Shevchuk, please have the right to speak. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u163	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well done, Mr. Chechatov! Well, that's a great speech. I would like such a speech to be repeated when we vote not for inclusion, but when we vote in general, because the bill foresees substantial costs for the state. And then we hope that your argument won't be that there's no money, there's no calculation. And the bill, really important, needs to be included without further deep discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u164	Vladimir Karpuk. Or Knyazevitch? Who? Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u165	Vladimir Karpuk. Thank you for the position of all those who supported the proposal and, above all, Valery Mikhailovich for the initiative to create such a law. And I have to say, really, when there was a program in Schuster, when there were a lot of deputies, and the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council took the initiative to call on the President to treat a child with Hunter's disease. And rare diseases are now in the world of over 8,000, and every Sunday their numbers are increasing, and those who have encountered such diseases are extremely difficult diseases, two thirds of them are childhood. If they are not recognized at the right time, no treatment, 70 percent of them become deeply disabled. Treatment for life. And, really, I would just like to deny in that way that there are huge material costs, because on many programs there are already such funding. Let's say Goshe's disease, mucoviscidosis, multiple sclerosis, and I'd like to point out that there's a step-by-step program; that's going to be defined by these diseases, a list of these diseases. [[There's a few of them.]] As central executives in the field of health care, but above all, on organizational and methodological matters, i.e. that doctors should know and establish diagnostic centers, and timely diagnostics, timely treatment. That's why this bill, despite this approval, but I know how many people really think that it is, in fact, the real help of such a sick person. By the way, in Russia in 2011, under the new law, the basics of health legislation are included in Kazakhstan, which are included in EU countries. And God forbid we should vote in favour of this bill, and now it's a conclusion, and when it's being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u166	Gordine, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u167	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. The first thing we're going to do is support this bill. But I'd like to draw the attention of those officials who can hear us, and I'd like to address you, my fellow dignitaries, on behalf of the faction that there is a second threat. If this bill is adopted and it's not financed, it just won't work. We need to consolidate Parliament's efforts today, and yet we need to force the executive authority to do so, because we have stopped providing credit and free prescriptions in Ukraine in areas and areas. Local authorities refer to the lack of funds. And if such benefits and free recipes are provided by the bill and there are corresponding lists in the Cabinet regulations, they are not financed. So there's a threat, if we accept this bill and there's no money, it won't be financed. All such efforts should be directed to ensure that this is foreseen in the budgets and that there is a targeted subsidy on the benefits and free recipes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Basic Health Law of Ukraine to provide health care for people with rare diseases. [[Registration number 10383]] Please vote. [[13:20:43]] For 343 Decision taken. Please, Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u169	There's no microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u170	The microphone's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u171	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a request for you. Given the importance of the issue, I would like to consider draft Law 5515, namely the restoration of the rights of deported persons outside the queue in order to consider it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, we have directed you to reread the draft Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign, 5515. There's an offer by the author, so let's move forward, I'll put it to a vote, if you're going to support this law right now, so by changing the order of things, it's going to mean that there's a number of votes needed to support this law, if not, we're going to hold further consultations. Is the offer understood? So I'm putting to the vote the proposal that now, after changing the schedule of a few sessions, I should like to review the draft Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign, please vote. [[Registration number 5515]] Please vote. [[13:22:20]] For 148 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. We'll be on schedule. The Party of Regions is four, "BUT" is the "Fatherland" is 94, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 22, the Communists are zero, the People's Party is 20, "Reforms for the Future" is five, "non-factional" is three. Then let's think about it this way, your honorary colleagues, that next week, when we plan, we're going to start by considering issues that are included in the agenda, we're not going to look at the chapter "Inclusion into the agenda," and we're going to put it at the end of the day to deal with this question. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving voting procedures in elections and referendums is being announced for consideration, and a proposal is being made to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 8100]] Please vote. [[13:23:24]] For 205 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Odarchenko, co-rapporteur - Sergey Podgorny. Sergei Gordienko is a co-reporter, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u173	Colleagues, the bill proposes to take advantage of international experience and to make some clarifications to electoral legislation. First, some open booths for voting. Only the period where a person directly fills the ballot paper should be closed — half a meter around the booth table. So we're going to achieve a very important goal: the voter can no longer put in a newsletter or a bag of acid, he can't get another ballot out of his pocket that he was given for carousel or take pictures of. You can see immediately if a few people enter the booth. We're going to combine control of the voting order and the secrecy of the vote. Second money. The legal ban on photographing the completed ballot, as well as the ban on transmitting and receiving such photographs, is a violation of the secret of will. That's the ban we're making against the most common way to bribe voters -- to buy a photo of a newsletter. The penalty is imposed at all stages of the process. It's about taking pictures, transferring photos, and getting photos. So the bribery process can be stopped at any stage of it. Stockpiling photos involves not only high fines but also the confiscation of technical equipment. For those who buy votes, it is unfavourable to do so, since it would be very expensive for each voice to buy a new phone with a camera or camera. While the bill was under consideration, colleagues made changes to legislation. So the project needs to be consistent with them. But I think this can be done in the process of second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u174	Thank you, too. Sergei Gordienko of the committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u175	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I am grateful to the drafter of the bill, he has denied me the purpose of this bill. And I would like to report on behalf of the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government that the High Council Committee on Budget Issues has decided that the bill is such that it has an impact on the expenditure of the budget and is due to enter into force no later than 1 January 2013. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council's apparatus, in its conclusion, has taken particular note of the bill and believes that the results of the first reading should be rejected. During the consideration of the bill, members of the committee supported the author’s initiative and agreed that its implementation would prevent the use of illegal electoral technologies in voting. However, if the bill is adopted on the basis of its work, it is appropriate to determine that until the approval for the photo of the completed ballot, the transmission and receipt of its photograph, which are proposed to be provided in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, since the proposed sanctions in the bill seem excessive. At the same time, when the bill is being drafted, it must be taken into account that on November 17, 2011, the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies was adopted in a new edition, which provides for voting requirements in article 83, and for the organization and order of voting in article 85, rather than in relevant articles 81, 83, as set out in the bill. The Committee, by vote of all those present at the National Deputies meeting of Ukraine, approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving voting procedures and referendums resulting from the first reading to be adopted as a basis. The committee did not change its decision when the initiator of the February 15, this year, addressed the Supreme Council’s management of matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u176	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u177	Repealing the bill. Therefore, please support the bill with an appropriate draft decree on its adoption as a basis has been tabled for consideration by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the performance. Please put your names on the board. Vladimir Yavorovsky Faction "BUT" – "Fathership", next will be Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u179	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, the honourable electorate, the bill given to me personally, at least I think that's how we should act with you. We ourselves understand when the law is passed, I have already voted for these laws God knows how many times, when we vote everything seems perfectly clear, everything is clear, everything is laid down on all shelves, but when it comes to practice, almost half of the articles, especially election laws, have a double, or triple, or even quadruple, treatment. Because of this, we obviously need to do so, indeed in the course of the operation of this law there are some things that are not agreed upon. Because of this, you might think of Odarchenko’s bill, which says that 50 centimeters [50 cm] from the table is closed and 50 centimeters [50 cm] below. But it's really important, and it really reduces the probability of counterfeiting there, and so on. The fact that a newsletter cannot be passed on in addition to what can only be done by members of the commission, handing it over to others, and it must be punished, is also very fair. Because that's going to rule out, let's say, the same patch, the same carousel, when they're taking the ticket out of the cabin and they're on the street somewhere, they're giving you a clean one and that sort of thing. That's why I think that this bill really needs to be adopted on our first reading, if there's anything that needs to be clarified, according to our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, that can be done on our second reading. But I want to thank my colleague Odarchenk for really showing some of the details that are very important and very important during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u180	Sergey Glazunov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u181	I ask you to pass the word to Sergiyovna of Kavalevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u182	Please, Julia Kovalevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u183	Thank you. Julia Kovalevska, Party of Regions. First of all, I would like to stress that me and the Party of Regions are fully in favour of the idea of combating the various illegal electoral technologies that are being used. In addition, our political power has repeatedly stressed the need for transparent honest choices of all levels and the elimination of technologies that distort the will of citizens. And this is all the more relevant before the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, there are actually cases in our country of using voter bribery technologies, which provides for the subsequent handover to outsiders of photos of the completed ballot and the subsequent receipt of the prize. Clearly, this must be tackled, but methods must be effective and can be put into practice. The proposed draft law, I think, unfortunately, does not offer such methods. First of all, I think the illegal actions of the electorate involved in the technologies mentioned may be to sell a vote, that is, to get money for voting for a candidate or a party, not photographing a ballot or even showing photos to strangers. So setting up the responsibility for photographing the voter who shows his own choice is very much like trespassing on a citizen's personal rights. Moreover, the fact that the photograph itself is not a socially dangerous activity. The bill's proposed method of equipping the voting booths will certainly require the technical refurbishment of all the booths, accordingly, will require additional costs that are not currently available. Moreover, I have doubts as to how the secret of voting will be ensured in such cabin equipment. I propose to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u185	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. Dear Ukrainians! You are now offered a view on how to make choices. And you didn't see it on March 8th, New Year's Eve, on May 9th, when you thought of even oligarchs as veterans in a package made of paper, a mess. In Odessa, candidates were so disgraced. When the bribe began a long time ago, when today's law enforcement officers are being gathered, I emphasize, the law enforcement officers, with the participation of the Center's viewers, and they say, "The election is to be held at any cost." At any cost, you won't make it. And here's to not being able to do anything at any cost, I'd like to see that we've changed, and we've recorded what's going on online. For Knazević, I repeat what is happening online. The voting process is being fixed. So that's what we all have to spend about 400 million dollars on. I want everyone to understand. That I have not forgotten Russian, I will have to continue in English, but I cannot accept anti-constitutional things contrary to the Constitution. And the law that was passed, it's ridiculous, and then you'll realize it's worth 12 billion dollars. Which one of you is ready to pay? That's right. You buy voices. Not enough photos need online broadcasting and documenting the process not only by voting, but also by counting the votes. Were there many, or were there 400 million that needed to be done? No, not much. It's to be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u186	Thank you. Replica, Ruslan Knazevich. His last name was, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u187	Dear Mr. Head, it's a very serious matter. We're here tens of times looking at similar bills, and we never make the right decision. And the problem is finding new technological solutions to it every time. Because we know that so-called carousel is not just a know-how, it's just an endless process for creativity, every time in an election it's actively applied. So let's go that way, let's try at least what the Russian Federation went to, because we don't believe in our strength anymore, as I just heard from the representative of the Party of the Regions. It was the Russian Federation in the last two electoral campaigns through the Central Election Commission that decided to make special booths for voting as transparent material. And that made it impossible for any carousel, because you can see right now that a person is pulling out a phone and putting it on the phone. If we're not able to make a decision at least, let's give the Central Electoral Commission a commission within the amount that we've allocated, that's enough, they're making booths that they consider appropriate and they're defining this form of booths themselves. And then these questions will be removed. But let's do something, not just say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve voting procedures in elections and referendums. [[Registration number 8100]] [[13:36:52]] For 106 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. The bill was rejected. The region's party is 0, "BUT - Fatherland" – 89, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 16, Communists, People's Party, reforms – 0, non-fractional – 1. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Procedure for Compensation of Damage Caused by the Citizen by the Illegal Activities of the Intelligence, Judicial Investigation, Prosecutor's Office and Court of Justice is being published for consideration. [[on damage caused by a procedural breach]] [[Registration number 6442]] There is a letter from the national deputy Catherinechuk requesting that the bill be postponed due to his absence for the next plenary week. Is there a denial? Don't you have to vote then? Then we don't vote. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is now being announced for consideration. [[on the acceptance of nominations for posts and discharge of managers in Ukrainian law enforcement bodies]] It is suggested that we consider the matter in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal, and I'm announcing an extension of the session by 14 hours 15 minutes. But we're not gonna make it in full, you know? That's the problem. Please vote. [[13:38:34]] For 213 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Prokopchuk. And you're from the committee, aren't you? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u189	Honorary colleagues, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Kožemyakinim, Prokopczuk, Zabzaluk, is designed to amend the Ukrainian Law "For the Police", "For the Prosecutor's Office", "For the State Tax Service", "For the State Criminal Enforcement Service". [[on the acceptance of nominations for posts and discharge of managers in Ukrainian law enforcement bodies]] The changes proposed are to establish an order for prior approval by the Ukrainian Supreme Council's professional committee on the legislative provision of the legal protection activities of the appointment and the release of the leaders of all the Ukrainian law enforcement bodies with a view to carrying out the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that is, the functions expressly laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine. According to individual members of the committee and scientific experts, the legal regulation of direct supervisory powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine over the police, the tax police, the prosecutor's office and the State Criminal Enforcement Service is redundant and does not comply with the normative acts of the higher and the same legal force. Yes, according to part two of article 6 of the Constitution, the Ukrainian legislature has to act within its own competence as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, and therefore the competence limits of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can only be changed in one way – only by making changes to the Basic Law of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine stressed that Parliament cannot extend these limits on its own by means of laws adopted accordingly. This includes the supervisory function of the Supreme Council. That is why we have unfortunately developed a structure such as the Constitutional Court, which replaces both Parliament today and Parliamentary Committees and, in fact, all the power that changes the Constitution. And by the way, the body itself, if you take the history of the adoption of the Constitution, is not entirely constitutional, because this position was introduced literally in a few hours into the Constitution of Ukraine already completed its draft. That is why we know and understand how the task of law enforcement is being carried out today. We now have 27 subjects in Ukraine, namely, the Republic of Crimea, all areas, Kiev and Sevastopol, with the exception of four representatives from one Donetsk region. So it turns out that only the prosecutors were prepared in the Donetsk region, well, apparently when there were resonance killings, which we are talking about today, when they want to hang these criminal tales, including on the illegally imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko. And that's why we're proposing this bill, in fact, to make such proposals as would allow the entire Supreme Council, to carry out parliamentary control through a professional committee, with the agreement of all officials, the first officials in the fields and Ukraine as a whole. Because that quality, including the law enforcement officers that are today, and I want to stress, is actually what we have today, in view of the unthinkable various reforms that we have all of Ukraine without investigation, and what the investigation is, it is hand-in-hand managed by the respective superiors. So, honourable colleagues, we're not thinking about today's situation, we're thinking about tomorrow, and we're thinking about how we can build a legal independent Ukraine. And in our common interest, I think we're completely depoliticizing, deporting all law enforcement agencies. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this bill. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Fedun, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing? Fomin, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u191	Digger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u192	Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u193	Well, according to yesterday's actions. Once again, why should we really support this bill? Because the whole of Ukraine has seen how today law enforcement is not on protection, indeed, the rule of law, but on the protection of the illegal actions of power; how yesterday the scene was protected, how the streets were covered by the militia itself; how the illegal teams of Berkutu were given to gas from Ukrainian people; how other crimes were committed by law enforcement officers, which would then be evaluated, but also by law. That is to say, so that it does not be allowed to do so to those who will be in opposition tomorrow or who will have problems with those who carry out political orders, so this law is important and must be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u194	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u195	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. Dear National Deputies! It's weird looking and it's weird looking at this double standard. The president proposed and filed, and yesterday you voted abruptly and cynically. Adam Ivanovich, really, I don't really want to talk in his absence, but I did, and you passed the law. You didn't take it, but for the time being, you put it in the agenda where you're going. you limit the law of both the President and the deputies and everyone. And they've restricted those rights a long time ago. I propose to the President to limit himself first. Why? Because it's not my conscience. This is a bought amendment to the Constitution. Bought for benefits, bought for threats and so forth, by the Constitutional Court. This is the Constitution in the version of the Constitutional Court, we've accepted it in this room in 1996, and since then we've been modernizing it. Thus, the return to these constitutional principles suggests that there is no need for all of the region — either the police or the tax authorities or the prosecutor’s office or the Security Service. Because it's already like the Mafia. Today, for those who are watching us from abroad, they're watching and what's going on. With the power of a family, a family is enriched and assigned from one family and one region. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you doing to offend the outlaws in other regions?Oh, my God! Where is the equality of people before the law? Because of this, the Minister of Internal Affairs will pass through the Supreme Council, there is nothing to worry about. Because of this, the parliamentary committee will pass through the heads of the head offices in the assignment, there is also nothing to worry about. See how this works abroad: appointment and assignment, including in turn. That's how it happens. I'm for adopting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u196	Honorable National MPs. From the faction? Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u197	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people, of course we can vote and take any decision, but it will only be lawful if it is within the Constitution. And there is a clear explanation by the Constitutional Court that consent to the appointment of the persons concerned falls within the competence of the Committees of the Supreme Council. Point, end of quote. Now, what is the solution? Zabarsky, the People's Party of the Regions, has already spoken: the Constitutional Assembly has now been established, it is headed by the patriarch of Ukrainian politics, and Leonid Makarović Kravčuk, who has adopted the birthrights of Ukrainian independence. You just need to get into this constitutional assembly. We will make changes to the Constitution, and in the framework of that Constitution, we may prescribe that rule. And then legally, constitutionally, we will have the right to deal with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u198	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes that the subject be reinstated as the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and expert management in its recommendations notes that it is worth rejecting the bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the rule on the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the acceptance of candidates for appointment and the dismissal of managers in the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine is the first to be voted on. [[Registration number 6455]] [[13:48:41]] For 101 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: The region's party is zero, BUT is Father's Party is 84, Our Ukraine is National Self-Defense is 14, Communists and the People's Party is zero, Reforms for the Future is one, non-factional is two. Chaplain, what do you have, please? And now we're going to be looking at the 9062 bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u199	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, on behalf of the MP group, we have sent you a letter requesting you to consider today Bill 10156 on the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission. I'm sure it's a question that might be considered and completed today, put a dot on it. I very much ask that we consider it today. Put to the vote to support our proposal for representatives in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u200	Let's do it this way, dear fellows, let's do it. There's a letter from the deputy group, so let's now look at the draft law, because we've gone on for 15 minutes, up to 14 hours 15 minutes. Now, one minute, let's consider a bill amending the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act, and then I'll put your proposal to the vote. [[on the filling of classes and the reorganization of public educational institutions]] There are three projects under the TSK and I was approached by the author of one of Kirilo Kulikov's draft regulations, if the Supreme Council decides to consider them, we will consider them if not. Now. Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u201	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. About the previous law, because there are these suggestions of the committee: the work being done and, before that, one of the active today advocates of democracy in Ukraine spoke of the fact that it does not look at names, but looks at how we can apply normal laws in our lives. In order to make Ukraine democratic and independent of some of the individual clans that are in power today. So I have a proposal then, ask the committee to send the law to work out, and then together we're all working together to really depart, depoliticize, completely dispossess, especially the criminal oligaric clans that are temporarily in power, all the law enforcement agencies. Let's help them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a logic to what Yuri Odarchenko said. Since the recommendation was a committee to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work, since the Supreme Council did not support the adoption of the bill on the basis, I am therefore voting on the second proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[Registration number 6455]] [[13:51:55]] For 106 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 87, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 17, Communists, People's Party, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, non-fractional – 2. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposal to review Bill 9062 on a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:52:30.]] For 210 Decision taken. The reporter is Mikola Tomenko. He's a reporter. Who's gonna be on the committee? From the Committee on Education and Science, please identify yourself. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, please. Workman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u203	Honorary colleagues, a unique case in which, in the protection of education and the Ukrainian village, I share not only with teachers, the parents of rural areas, but with the government and the Ministry of Education. I had the honour of conducting parliamentary hearings on 14 March 2012 on "Earth education, crisis trends and ways of overcoming it." In a report on behalf of the government, the First Deputy Minister of Education directly addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine and asked us to explain how the procedure for the closure of general educational institutions in rural areas is being carried out, because the government and the Ministry, I understood, are in our positions in the area of irregular, rapid and, so on, harmful school closure. So I offered an option, along with my colleague Stephen Dawimuk, that such decisions would be made only by the consent of the population, that is, the congregation of villages or villages. But the government's even more insistent request was, I'll tell you now, a request to the government in part 2 of article 14 of the General Secondary Education Act is clearly regulated in general educational institutions located in villages, villages, the number of students in classes is determined by the demographic situation, but should not be less than five. Most of the students, the government writes, are offered to reduce to three. We call on the Supreme Council to make changes to the law and to set a lower rate of filling classes in rural areas. In view of the fact that parliamentary hearings and the entire teaching community applauded the government's proposal that the government understands that if we do not reduce the filling of classes in rural areas today, only by September 1st, Ukraine will be closed for at least a hundred schools, and possibly thousands of schools, it is a disaster that can touch the Ukrainian village. So, taking into account the teachers' appeal and the government and ministry's proposal, I introduced a bill that clearly addresses this issue that the government is asking for. I'm offering a transition period until we're a rich country, while we don't have normal roads in the countryside, no buses, no class set up for three people, so we'll save a lot of schools, teachers and children and parents. Questions about the decision-making procedure. I don't insist on the imperative we've proposed, we can still debate between the first and the second readings we can regulate. But in principle, once again, my request. If we're going to set up classes today, first class in particular, we're not going to change to three people, I'm going to inform you again, we're going to face a disaster of the closing of a very large number of schools. What's more, this has to be done now, because before September 1st, the work started, and the school principals are calling me on the committee to do it immediately. Therefore, a request to support the first reading is made. We are prepared for all compromises, but the destruction of the rural school, and with it of the Ukrainian village, we must not all allow it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u204	It's a workman. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u205	Good health, fellow believers, is proposed by this bill to amend the Education Law, article 11, and two key standards. First. The school cannot close without the decision of the rural population, that is, without the decision of the community. Second, the completing standard is proposed to be reduced from five, as it is now, to three. I need to inform you that there have been recent parliamentary hearings on Rural Education, where teachers and representatives of the education community have clearly supported these norms. Therefore, despite political considerations, I am asking for your support. In particular, it should be noted that the committee that has passed several similar bills has supported the adoption of such standards. The next moment I'd like to pay attention to. The trouble is that schools are now shutting down illegally and, under a wave of optimism, local officials are finding different ways to close schools, except as the community agrees. For example, an invention called conservation. He said the school is not closed, it is physically suspended. But you remember this year’s frostbite when you just let the team defrost the heating system and the school facilities after that is not usable as a school. In fact, over 300 schools have been closed in the last two years. And Mr. Mikola Tomenko is absolutely right in that when we make this decision, we have the opportunity to stop the sliding optimism, and in the same way in fact the destruction of rural education in Ukraine. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u206	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. And even better, let's vote. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Then Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u207	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Of course, the problem is very urgent, and the situation in a village with educational institutions is very disturbing, and the fate of many schools hangs on its hair. The Ukrainian Company's faction will support this bill and we are grateful for the positions that state that the community itself should decide to shut down or not to shut down the school. But I would like, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to draw attention to the next one that is on the committee's review of Bill 8622. It's bigger, it's more complex, it's trying to solve the problem of class filling, paying teachers, pensions, social security. This bill by our colleague Catherine Semina Semenovna Samojlik and the committee members themselves admit that it is more complex to solve the problem. So I'm drawing attention to what I'm sure is putting into the order of the day today. This bill must have had to be reviewed and not resolved by the exact method, but rather by a more complex approach to addressing the problem of rural education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u208	Paul Mokchan, group of Reforms for the Future. Corge will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u209	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, closing down the school is the death of a village, any settlement. But this can be said by a more thorough person who dedicated himself to the educational field, Professor Kurilo. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u210	Vitali Kurilo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u211	Dear colleagues! The committee supported this bill and will also support this bill by the MP's Reform Group for the Future. Because there really was a catastrophic situation in the village with rural schools. Although this does not solve the whole issue. Because it needs to be solved in the social area, primarily by creating jobs in the countryside. And this can be done very quickly today only by rural cooperation. But at the same time, if we close schools today, there will be nowhere to create jobs. This decision is temporary. It's temporary in terms of increasing birth rates, increasing the number of people in the village, and it won't take those three kids to open the classroom. So I'm addressing everyone, let's support, first of all, the Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u212	Korgee, the "BUT" faction. Please, Vitaly Corge, your microphone is working.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u213	Please pass the word to your colleague, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u214	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Corge. I'd like to pay attention, well, first of all, it's clear that the law, whoever doesn't speak, is temporary or not -- is needed right now. But I would like to stress to one speaker that he, this law, will continue to work in the mountainous part of Ukraine, for the mountain population. We discussed it today. True, some of the disadvantaged here are national MPs who represent an unknown principle, which the people said we do not have a mountain population. Well, it really is and it's a population that's worthy and worthy of having a school, at least in the first place. Because even when we talk about increasing, optimizing, entrenching, and even if we have funds, it will be very, very difficult to unite, to build a large school for mountain villages. So we need to optimize very, very carefully here. And I would stress that the most interesting facts and figures we have in Ukraine right now. This is 13 locations, 13 percent of the population in Ukraine have fewer than 50 inhabitants. Imagine 13 percent of the population in Ukraine have fewer than 50 people. Of these 50 people, only 10 percent are school - age children. So if we don't adopt this law, we're really going to destroy, we're going to lose rural education, we're going to lose rural education. So we're going to take a lot of Ukrainian people, Ukrainian children out of secondary education in general. Therefore, there is a definite need for support. I think the bill is right on time. I don't know how temporary he is. Because Ukraine is not as fast as it is. And in today’s government, it’s hard to talk about it at all. But nevertheless, right now, we have to take this law really and without puffos to save the village, to save the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u216	Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u217	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Well, of course, our faction will support, actively support this bill. Because not only the bill but also the unified opposition is actively fighting the closure and so - called optimisation and elimination of schools. The Front of Change political party initiated hundreds of suitably subpoenaed lawsuits, and we managed to win a huge number of attempts of this kind of initiative. And for what we are grateful for is a large number of people, including the Supreme Council, who continue to defend the interests of the territorial communities. But I have no doubt that the Party of Regions will also fully support this bill. Because I recall how recently, on the Council of Regions, the President gave a clear and ambiguous mandate to the Minister of Education, the Prime Minister not to allow any closure and optimization of schools before the election and the electoral process. In fact, this bill is a mechanism for implementing that rule that is already in force, which says that such liquidation or reorganization is possible under the consent of the territorial community. Here's the way this community is supposed to work. If it's a rural community, it's supposed to be a common congregation of villages. And if it's a city community or a district in the city, it's got to be a local referendum. Because so far many have said that there is no law on the local referendum and you see, there is no such mechanism of aprior. Now no one's going to talk about it anymore, because this law is, it's already in effect, and it's being actively applied to a number of other initiatives in population locations. What is worth taking is an initiative in Kiev. You see, every board is being held by the initiative of the local referendum. This is the very question that must be passed through the local referendum. So I think we don't need to have ambiguity in solving this issue and understanding the need for it right now, on the eve of the learning process, and not somewhere out there, in the dog's voice before the election. So I would ask you to take an active stand and show by more than 300 votes how we really fight for our students before the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The faction of the Party of Regions, please, 1 minute, is the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u219	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, indeed, the Party of the Regions will support this bill. And we must pay tribute to Nikolai Vladimirovic for his efforts to solve the very serious problem. On the other hand, it sounded absolutely fair to one speaker, from the mouth of one speaker, that Ekaterina Samajlik had prepared a broader bill, which was more complex than precisely addressing the problem. We therefore propose to support the Nikolai Vladimirovich Tomenka bill in the context of the general bill, i.e. to send it for further work and, together with the Ekaterina Samylik bill, to introduce and vote on a system law. It will be a solution that is truly just and completely from the point of view of the State. That is, Nikolai Vladimirovic's initiative will be translated into a more serious, comprehensive bill. The author of his idea, the author of the idea, remains. And thank you, Nikolay Vladimirovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u220	We're done. Please, one minute, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, since I have mentioned my fundamental intensive work towards supporting the Ukrainian village, I'll tell you that, my friends, it's a sad story that we have a lot of people who have become experienced parliamentarians and know how to support good drafts so that they can never be supported. Well, we're all serious people here. We weren't born today. So, well, what amended bill can you accept if today's June month? And the principals at the meetings held by the district education authorities said that if there were no 5 children in your first class for a month, there was no class. Well, what we're talking about here, we're playing toys. It is thousands of people today who stand and turn to Parliament. The government has turned to Parliament and asks us to do so. The President has addressed Parliament and asks us to do so. And we play toys and nose into the sand, and we say, "Here we go.".. I've done it 30 times already. We're working on it so that soon no one in the village will live, we'll work on it, we'll close all the schools. So I insist today, this is the principle of voting, if we don't decide before the session closes on the three children's set-up, take the responsibility that hundreds of schools will be closed by September 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate to be sent to pre-work. The topic is sensitive, respectable colleagues, so let's, please, support acceptance as a basis, then we have to count how many schools we have that we can use, and what we need to do in this regard to make changes to the funding budgets. And we'll take that into account, if you support it, in preparing the second reading. The problem is really serious, so I would ask you to make a positive decision without mutual accusations. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on a draft Act amending the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act. [[on the filling of classes and the reorganization of public educational institutions]] [[Registration number 9062]] Please vote. [[14:09:34]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. There's a second offer. Well, you can see everything. Let's make a decision. Well, let's do factions, please. Region Party 6, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 94, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 23, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 7. The proposal for rereading the bill is based on the proposal. Please vote. And for the next plenary week, take the accounts in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine financially and bring them up to date. [[14:10:25]] For 375 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. Now, please listen, take a look at Bill 9670, then decide on the TSC that we have hanging: either the Supreme Council decides on these TSCs, or it doesn't make any decisions. And then finish our morning session. Is there no objection? None. At that time, Bill 9670 on amending certain legislative acts is now under consideration. [[on the organization of the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with a view to guaranteeing the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine and protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens]] The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[14:11:20]] For 223 Decision taken. The reporter is Arsenius Yatsenuk. Correspondent Vladislav Zabarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u223	Honorable Members of Parliament! This law concerns the body that today is called the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I deliberately say "the body that bears the name today," because this institution is not called the Constitutional Court. Let me remind you what happened a few years ago, when this very Constitutional Court of Ukraine decided that the then President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, could be on a third term and put out a new arithmetic formula that was mixed up in politics: one plus one is equal to one. I would like to remind you that this is the very Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which has unconstitutionally decided on the formation of a carcass coalition that exists in today's Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which has taken an unconstitutional decision and deprived Afghans and Chernobyls of the opportunity to receive legal supplements, which are determined by the current social legislation of Ukraine. And this is the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which at night copied the Constitution of Ukraine under the current President Yanukovic and made the constitutional monarchy of the name Yanukovic. Can such an organ be called a vessel? The tongue won't come back. What's more, we call people like this, "Your Honor." Rather, "your dishonesty." In view of that, I am introducing a bill that stipulates: First. Establishment of a mechanism for recalling judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Today, Ukrainian national deputies have no influence on the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. That's why 45 Ukrainian national deputies will have the right to appeal to any judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for breaking an oath. The other one. My bill foresees a reduction in the cost of maintaining the Constitutional Court three times and brings the salaries of the judges of the Constitutional Court to the judges of the local courts. And the third. As part of the work of the united opposition and our program, we made it clear that the Constitutional Court in Ukraine should be terminated, the authority of the body of constitutional jurisdiction transferred to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and the Supreme Court should establish a separate Constitutional Chamber. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u224	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u225	I ask that the effect of Parliament on the Constitutional Court be reinstated and that the costs of maintaining President Yanukovic's administration be reduced three times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u226	Who do we have? Vladislav Zabarski. Who from the committee will speak on the issue of legal policy? Please sign up for the discussion. Names, please. Ruslan Knazević, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Then Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u227	Dear Head, honourable Members of Parliament, I work on this committee, and I am ashamed of, you know, the committee is unable to make any decision. Because I don't understand, and why are we so afraid to touch the Constitutional Court Act? This law was passed in 1996, it's long overdue, we've changed the Constitution several times -- we haven't made any changes to this law. The Constitutional Court does what it wants, actually does not work in the legislative plane. Do not let God touch this sacred cow! Terribly, because in fact, there has never been any court in the Constitutional Court, and there will probably be no court of review in the future. It is exclusively a political body that performs purely political orders. Let us at least try to do a simple, basic thing: the powers given by the Constitution to Parliament regarding the possibility of recalling those judges whom we have delegated there, in the Rules we will write a mechanism for such a recall. And here we can't do it! We even refuse to exercise our own constitutional powers regarding the Constitutional Court. I don't understand, my fellow Members, if Parliament refuses to react in any way to the fact that the Constitutional Court has long been operating outside the constitutional field, why is it Parliament? If Parliament does not see that the Constitutional Court is able to make political decisions, why? Finally, if the Constitutional Court makes decisions that go against the interests of the Ukrainian people, why such a Constitutional Court? But unfortunately, it is obvious that these decisions, radical in the Constitutional Court, can only be made in a new parliament, where there will be a normal, democratic majority that will truly defend the interests of the people, not the junta of the people who are now in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u228	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Who's it gonna be? Pavlovsky Andrew, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u229	I do not object to Paul’s speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u230	Please, Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u231	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Dear colleagues, fellow countrymen, I was one of the invited deputies, the author of the Constitutional Court's application for the Budget Act for this year, because in the transitional positions of this budget, in fact, the government was allowed to manually determine the size of social assistance, social benefits, the benefits to black people, Afghans, and 16 other categories of socially vulnerable citizens. And we were confident that the Constitutional Court would decide that this was unconstitutional, because before that he had made three decisions, that, well, the State Budget Act could not change the position of other laws. And you can imagine, for the fourth time, the Constitutional Court is making a decision that can be made, contradicts itself, by its previous three decisions. Well, I'm sorry, that's the kind of schizophrenic that came out. I looked at these judges, they dulled their eyes, they were not judges, they were frightened creatures. And these are the judges who should show, the superior judges, the example of other judges. They've long since turned into a department, like the branch of the Presidential Administration. And I would like to point out that the Arsenius Yatsenuk Bill correctly states that in many democratic civilized countries there is no single branch of power or court as great as the Constitutional. There is the Constitutional Palace of the Supreme Court. If we're going into a democratic world, into a civilized world, we have to go this way. We don't have to make any more untouchable, with wages that are larger than the MPs and so on, that are spending millions, tens of millions of dollars, inexplicably on what. So these creatures need to be eliminated, and they need to create a civilized constitutional chamber at the Supreme Court. I propose to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u232	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u233	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, there's an offer from the author to eliminate the Constitutional Court. It's possible, yes. In some countries it is not available, it is a legitimate procedure. But I don't understand why you're so vindictive, so cruel. You've expelled two people from the faction, those who voted wrong for the law, almost not. For failing to give a command, the faction leader was almost re-elected yesterday. Now you want to eliminate the Constitutional Court. So where did you get this vendetta, this cruelty, this heartlessness? In order to make a legitimate decision, we propose once again, please give two people to the Constitutional Assembly, and in the process of developing a new concept of the Basic Law, we can also eliminate the Constitutional Court there, but it will be perfectly legal. And we give these rights to the Supreme Court. It's a legitimate procedure. And you start waving your hat. Where'd you get all that cruelty and all that liberal stuff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u234	I can't. If you can, you can. I can't. The factions have already appeared. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the organization of the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with a view to guaranteeing the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine and protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens]] I'd like to make a statement. [[14:20:19]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I will then put to the vote the committee's second proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:20:47]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! We agreed with you that we would consider draft regulations for the creation of the TSC, because there is no report for one of the draft regulations, so we'll postpone it then because we need a reporter, and two draft regulations for registration number 10327 and 10156, the proposal is no, no. For a minute or two to justify Kulikov and Šustik's position, let's put the vote to a decision, will be, no, means no. Is there no objection? Please, Kirilo Kulikov, we agreed to discuss this here, we just need to create a commission and work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u235	Dear colleagues! This is practically, indeed, the right Head of the Supreme Council has nothing to discuss, and we propose to create a temporary commission of inquiry into the decisions of the Kyiv City Council, which we are now saying is that we are taking authority from local authorities, and here the Kyiv City Council has assumed the authority of the central authorities. And she's already making a decision, which land to give, or to take Sofia Kyiv, or to take Laura and everything else? I want to remind you that there is such a standard in the Ukraine Code of Land, especially the value of the land. As far as these lands are concerned, decisions are to be made either by the Supreme Council or by a government decree. What happened in Kyivrad? In Kyivrada, what happened was that according to a report by the Audit Authority, in the year 2010, land was stolen for 70 billion dollars in Kiev. So Kyivrada worked from 2006 to 2010 practically without a break, without holidays, stealing about 50 million every day. What are we talking about? We're saying that there's already been about a thousand protests by the prosecutor, understand this, in the state of a thousand for the decision of Kyivradya. I mean, every minute the D.A. is protesting every decision. Other evidence that the court has already returned some 4,000 acres [4,000 ha] of land on this very basis is that these are especially valuable lands. I want to remind you of these lands, this is a landscape alley, this is a buffer zone near Sofia Kyivsky, this is a buffer zone near Lavra. Look, we see everyone together, we live in this town, just like this team destroyed him. Let's help your management, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u236	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u237	We vote for it and we can report it, it has nothing to do with politics. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is a request for a draft regulation, to take into account such a clarification before the vote, that the number of terms is determined according to the quotas worked by the Rules Committee and thus to decide on the vote, since there are five people. Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u239	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the conclusion of the committee on the part that the draft decision proposes to create a commission with a period of one month's activity and a report to be heard in 40 days. So the committee proposes to set up a commission for six months, and then it will be perfectly normal that the previous report will be heard 40 days after its operation. Because a month to create and 40 days to listen to the report is absolutely not valid, from a legal point of view. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this proposal has been heard. That is, there will be a vote on the composition according to the proportional composition of the faction and the groups, the number of members of the committee, the term of work for six months and beyond. For what reason? We've already agreed to vote, there's been a performance from the factions, there's already been a speech. 20 seconds, please. Sass has already spoken. Please, Baby, 20 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u241	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm a non-fractional national MP, but what's happening here in Kiev with the destruction of a historical heritage, with the violation of citizens' rights, I don't care as much as the deputies who belong to the faction. So I'm asking my fellow deputies to support my proposal, and I also want to join this commission to investigate the crimes of the Kiev authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u242	Thank you. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u243	Dear colleagues! I do, and I'm going to Kiril Kulikov, Mr. Kiril, you can hear me, right? About a year and a half ago, an investigative commission was set up that was pedantic about all the violations that were there. That is why we need to use the materials of that commission, and perhaps even those people should be involved again because they are on the subject. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u244	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to make a decision with precision. [[Registration number 10327]] Just a minute. To be precise, the size of the committee corresponds to the quota principle and the duration of the commission's work is 6 months. [[factions should then make their proposals to the commission]] With that in mind. I can't vote this, the Rules require a quota principle. If a faction offers you an offer, please make an agreement. I can't break the rules. In view of this, I am voting on a draft decision for adoption as a decision. [[14:27:37]] For 345. I'll take the order. Now, dear colleagues, the bill of decree, Helen Shustyk, please. [[Registration number 10156]] Well, now let the author know, and then we'll decide by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u245	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected compatriots! A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry is proposed for consideration by Parliament to determine the situation and to investigate the facts published by the Ukrainian national deputy Zabzaluk R.O. on the acquisition by the Ukrainian National Deputies of funds for the transition to other MP factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. On February 8, 2012, Ukrainian national deputy Roman Zabzaluk published the facts of the bribery of members of parliament and reported receiving $450,000 for treason, for moving from the Fatherland faction to the Reform Group for the Future. A corresponding claim to commit the crime provided for in article 369 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code was sent to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for verification. However, the Attorney General’s Office has, of course, rebaptized itself from the examination, from these events, from their evaluation and recognized it as a political activity. A clear example of such political activity is the sixth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it will enter history with political treachery, corruption and such a term as "carcases." It was by means of these political leaders, who had moved into the niche factions at the hands of the whole country, who had changed the system, adopted the pension reform, imposed the yoke of the Tax Code. Yesterday, Russian was imposed throughout the country. So the responsibility for what's going on in the country lies with the carcases. "Cats" allowed the power of the Party of Regions to be distributed and placed in one hand in the hands of one family. It was these "heroes" that changed the history of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, taking into account the fact that law enforcement authorities have self - removed themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u246	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u247	A legal assessment of the facts of political corruption is proposed to form such an investigative commission. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-06-m0.u248	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking for your attention. And I'll put it to a single vote. Again, the quantity composition is in line with the quota principle. Because this is, let's say, a three-man party, a 2-man block of Yulia Timoshenko, and the number is almost double the size of the faction. Therefore, with such clarification, if there is no objection, to the composition of a committee that meets the quota principle defined by the regulatory committee. I am voting on the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the formation of the TSC, please be determined. [[Registration number 10156]] [[14:31:07]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The draft decision is not accepted. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 89, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 10, communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, non-fractional – 6. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Dear National Deputies! After 15 hours, work on committees and factions, especially on committees. Tomorrow we will continue our plenary work from 10 a.m. to Thursday, June 7.
