ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:04:56]] They registered in the 239 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at 2.30 p.m., I was invited to meet with the President of Ukraine. These measures ended about 20 hours ago, and at the same time, a national MP said, "We've divorced them like a kitten." First of all, I was divorced, but according to a large account, Ukraine was divided, and the people were divided. And I think that these fruits of this divorce we're going to reap. Under such circumstances. I'm asking you to calm down. In such circumstances, fellow believers, I ask you to consider the matter and decide on my resignation. [[Applause]] You've already introduced a bill. Thank you, dear colleagues, thank you. You've already introduced a bill amending the procedure for the election of the Supreme Council, you've been preparing for this for a long time. So the request now to ask this question, to include it in the agenda, you have a valiant friend of mine who was once with whom I shared the bread and salt that gave me away completely. Dear colleagues, I have every right to say what I think is true. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, please include questions in the agenda and tomorrow consider and make a decision on this matter. Please, Adam Ivanovich, put the matter to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, please sign in a minute from the factions. Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u3	Dear comrades, respected citizens of Ukraine! You have just witnessed an extremely emotional statement by the President of the Supreme Council, who accused the Ukrainian Parliament, accusing the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of betraying him. So I would like to say the following to all Ukrainian citizens and to those who listen to us. Him. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk presided over that meeting. I would like to draw attention to very common cases where there were complex bills, so Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin gave up everything to the Ukrainian Parliament and us with you. He left the session room, assigning these meetings to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. That's why it wasn't news, and I think it was correctly commented yesterday by all media outlets on Vladimir Mikhailovich's behavior. I think we need to be clear about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u4	Piglets, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u5	Please pass it on to Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u6	Please, the microphone of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u7	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to apologize to Adam Ivanovich for not making a correct statement to him. Let us find out what really happened. What were we doing somewhere? During many years, we have consistently sought to implement a single postulate in the programme. We have gone through everything that is set out in the Rules on this subject, and yesterday we voted in favour of this decision by a majority. That is, we have worked as a normal parliament does. With regard to the hasty decisions that may be wrongly taken today. I would just warn all our colleagues, we need to calm down. We need to weigh the situation, discuss the matter. So it would be logical, Adam Ivanovich, to take a break now. We have prepared a paper on this issue. And then after the break, you'll be careful to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u8	Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u9	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! You know, maybe what I'm going to say isn't going to appeal to everyone, but, really, yesterday was an extraordinary event when the law was adopted, let's say, without a picture. Conditionally, here in this parliamentary room, we've demonstrated that, if one political force wants to adopt the law under any circumstances, it's able to break all the microphones. I would like to tell you, there is a fate of truth in the words of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, it is. And you don't have to close your eyes, go back either to the right or to the left. Yes, really, we need to maybe get some sleep and think about not supporting Vladimir Litvin's resignation, giving him the opportunity to work in the future. And that would be better. And what happened yesterday when the People's Party voted in favour of the bill, knowing that we all knew that they didn't want to do it, you all know that. That's why we're calling for caution in terms of both pros and cons, and today we're not supporting Lithuania's resignation under any circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, two factions: the People's Party faction and the faction of the Party of the Regions -- have written an application requesting a recess of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, please inform the factions one more minute and we will continue. We're continuing the meeting. The faction leaders’ meeting ended. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! It seems to me that any man, and more so, is manifesting himself in extreme situations. And the more extreme the situation, the more likely we as humans are responsible not only for ourselves and our families, but for making important decisions, the more calm we should become. In this regard, we have taken a break in order to consult: how should we continue our work in the situation that has taken place today. Given that today, Wednesday and you know that this day is the day when opposition representatives form the agenda and today it is formed under the representatives of the opposition, and they have decided not to participate in the work of the Supreme Council, we need to make a joint decision with you on how to get out of this situation. As we can see, when we consult with the leaders of other factions and groups, we propose the following decision: that, given that there are no representatives of the opposition and we cannot consider their draft laws without them, it would be totally unreasonable to invite the Secretariat of the Supreme Council to return to the agenda of yesterday and prepare material on yesterday's agenda. This will take time. It is therefore proposed that the work of our Parliament be suspended until 12.30 p.m. and that the work of our Parliament continue at 12.30 p.m. And there's a second question. You know there are parliamentary hearings today. Parliamentary hearings are largely tied to joint work by both the majority and the opposition. Given that they cannot be unilateral, parliamentary hearings are proposed to cancel parliamentary hearings today. Then we will move them to a different time when there will be a more favourable environment for their implementation. Please support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Easy, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u14	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Ephraim has just said that there are no opposition representatives. Mr. Ephraim, please wipe your eyes: I am the opposition MP. One. The other one. If you have the opposition you have to thank in the morning for giving up the field of battle, we will not give it up. And we won't let you here in Parliament do what you did yesterday and what you do every day: rape a country, bully people, and pretend to be wolves in sheep's clothing. The people have long given you an assessment of who you are. And that's not going to work, because people aren't interested in Russian, but people are interested in wages, pensions, social security and prices -- questions that you don't give people an answer to. And you may stand here in your ears every day, but your end is near; the people will bring you out of here. So do we. You're strong, you're powerful, you're only strong because you're weak. That's when you get high. And when we're strong, you'll be running like a bunch of bad guys running from here. There's no one here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u15	Mr. Blackwall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u16	Yes, gentlemen and honourable, and not venerable! Why break all this comedy, on the one hand, on the other hand. It is clear to everyone that the Council, as a decision-making body, no longer exists. Two: the speaker and one vice-speaker admitted it to their statements. Take a list of numbers without the names of the bills that you were planning to accept in this call, even in this session, vote in a packet for the numbers, and you're still voting on everything else and closing the session today, and that's it. What's the point of breaking a comedy?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the proposals were made. Now we're going to be clear. First. Let's do it this way. In fact, today's opposition day and all the bills that were being drafted, except for the ratification that we're always looking at every Wednesday, are bills that were recommended for consideration by two opposition factions. So it'll be illogical, we can look at them, but none of the interviewers are properly present and will be illogical. And you know that usually one out of ten opposition projects are supported, because that's what it is, because the opposition always brings out what doesn't fit most of them. So it would be logical for us to actually take a break right now and have the task of preparing for work, including ratification for today and plus issues of order that we haven't been able to consider on Tuesday. And accordingly, if we hold a meeting, they will also speak from the deputies. Now, we're going to consult on the speeches of the deputies. So I'm putting a motion on the vote, and I'm asking you to support me to announce a break of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. Now we're talking about performances separately. In addition to the performances. Or should we consult immediately, now or then, or perhaps now? Dear colleagues, then? Okay. So the Rules will provide that we start a session at 12.30 p.m. with a statement by the deputies, and then follow the order of the day Tuesday, including today's ratification order. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[10:49:02]] For 260 Supported. And the second sentence comes out logically, you know, we were supposed to have parliamentary hearings today on the subject: Ukrainian Book: The Realities of Its Today and the Perspectives of the National Bookstore and Distribution." It was prepared by a committee headed by a colleague of Yavorowski. It's outside the session room right now. So it would be logical for us to make decisions on the transfer of parliamentary hearings with the definition of a later date when we conduct them. I mean, once again, we don't cancel them, we don't cancel them, we postpone the parliamentary hearings. For this proposal, please vote on the transfer of parliamentary hearings from today. [[10:50:02]] For 253 Decision taken. So, dear fellows, let's welcome today the birthdays of the national deputies: Tereshuka Sergey Mikolaiovich and Shepelev Aleksandra Alexandrovitch [[Applause]] And let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 3 July 2012. It was discussed yesterday: 36 issues of the agenda, as a result of which one law and two decrees were passed, 14 bills were rejected. In accordance with our decision, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. Let's start with the "Variance" and then the ratification, and then the next Tuesday, the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please sign up for "Rizzle." Please, Chaplain. Get ready, Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know, I wanted to talk to you today about the problems of medicine in the country, but after yesterday's Bill 9073 was passed, I wanted to talk briefly about it. I would like to start with the following words. As we passed the Multilingualism Act, they'll be like, "I'll speak only Ukrainian language in the future." I'll only speak Ukrainian in the rest. Dear Ukrainians, it was a difficult day yesterday because the bill was passed. Today we have come with you to that part of the parliamentary crisis when Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin is outside this room. I know that skeptics in this room and society are enough, there are different views on everything, including the question of language, on one side of the mental vision of the insolent visa: what will happen to it, to the confident one: and you are wandering where, in the Russian-speaking part of Ukraine or Russian-speaking, what difference does it make to you? On the other hand, patriotic, the parties are calling out from: Ukrainian needs protection, so let's go outside. Realizing that the language issue is affecting the depths of the subconscious, feeling the acquisition of Ukrainian culture, actually hurting for the future of my country, I would like to express my deep respect for it from this rostrum, the Ukrainian language. I think I'm a patriotic person and I'm set up to defend national interests, that is, Ukraine's interests and my position on the language issue I'd like to prove today. From now on, as Ukraine's national deputy Vladimir Kaplienko, who can't do anything except speak in this room, I urge you to ask a question before you answer about the brutal attitude towards our native language. From now on, I urge you to speak only in Ukrainian homes, in society, in your family with your children and your parents. This is the only way we can save the language. I urge you to do so. I'll speak only Ukrainian, I'll think only Ukrainian, and I'll only talk only Ukrainian. That's all I wanted to tell you. I see there are wild, a little wild calls like this. [[B in m in s a l in]] So wait for you, Lord, wait! I want you to know you can't do that. And if the Communists are acting that way today, they might give you an estimate of that. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, I'll end it this way: shut your mouth! It's going to be all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u20	Yes, please, Baby. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u21	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Now the forerunner tells us what he will speak only in English. Thank God you're speaking Ukrainian. I've been speaking Ukrainian for 39 years, and when I came to Kiev in 1990 after finishing boarding school in Borzny, in Chernigian, I spoke Ukrainian, I was looked at as a stud and as a peasant, but I'm still talking and, God willing, I'll tell you how much I'm going to live. But when you entered this parliamentary coalition, did you not understand what they were doing? You've just led us to the fact that today we have the authority of Yanukovich, the authority of Azarov and the authority of the Party of Regions, which destroys all Ukrainian, which destroys Ukraine. You look at these, honourable voters, you look at these people's faces. A fellow member of the Party of the Regions comes up to me and says, "Oh, what do you call us a gang all the time? We have 17 heroes of Ukraine, we have doctors, we have academics and everything." Yes, you all have a lot of very decent people. And I'm sorry when these decent people are standing here blocking the rostrum and beating the faces of colleagues — opposition deputies. Former ministers, academics, heroes have forgotten that you're heroes, that you're human. You're turning people into, excuse me, I don't want to use the non-parliamentary expression that you're becoming. You're the main thing, gentlemen and comrades, the main thing you've lost your conscience, you don't have a feeling of patriotism, you don't have a love for Ukraine, you're loved by Ukrainian land, you're eating Ukrainian fat, you're eating bread -- and you're doing what the Tatars didn't do. You need all of you at the head of Yanukovich, Azarov, Ephraim, Chechov, who boasts yesterday that "we made them like a kitten," we will see what the people will make of you. For it will be worse with you than with those miserable cats that are being melted. All of you, the anti-Ukrainian people, must be sent a hundred miles [100 km] from Mojai Road. You have to get a salary in the FSB, you have to put together the mandates of the Ukrainian national deputies, I stress, all those who voted in favour of this anti-Ukrainian law. And go get paid in the neighbouring state for which you work. You betray your heroes of Ukraine -- and get the stars of the heroes of Russia for what you do in the Ukrainian Parliament. You have no honor, no conscience, no responsibility to your children, your grandchildren, and any Ukrainian history. Hundreds of years from now, the coming generations of Ukrainians will curse you for what you are doing here. You live one day, you don't have, you don't see your nose anymore, you've lost everything you had human, you've turned into people who destroy Ukraine, destroy the Ukrainian people. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u22	Mikhailo Chechetov. Behind him is Kamchatny. Please, Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Oleg, we were thrilled to hear you talk about honor. That's what you're thinking. The other one. I want to say, my dear colleagues, that I just finished negotiations with an Indian businessman who built a super-modern pharmaceutical company in Ukraine and he said to me, "In our country, 29 national languages. I don't understand what's going on in Ukraine today." And you know, I didn't find anything to say to this person who lives and works for our Ukrainian people for our economy. In fact, in Ukraine and Poland, the European Football Championship, which did not become Armageddon, feared by opposition forces and many politicians of some, including the European Union, ended. The championship has already become a story, a bright page on the path to an independent state of Ukraine. Despite the hardships and the widespread information campaign of the media, especially foreign nations, today we can proudly say that our nation has done a great job. Those who refused to go to the Championship later changed their tone and are already enthusiastic about the fantastic, hospitable, and great history of the European state of Ukraine. The culmination of this festival was the final game between the national assemblies of Spain and Italy, in which, everyone saw, in an honest struggle, the greatest victory. This tournament has beaten all the record in the history of football championships in terms of the number of visitors. We've created the right conditions for a record number of matches from all over the world. We were able to ensure the European level of work of the Customs and the Foreign Service perfectly. Foreign authorities have ensured the rule of law and the safety of officials, guests, and fans of the Championship. We have gained tremendous experience in holding the largest European forum and demonstrated to everyone our ability and readiness to implement the most ambitious projects of the world. Together with the Polish side, we have vindicated all hopes of the UEFA and the entire sports community, honesty, hospitality, kindness, and a festive atmosphere of good and joy have become the main means of diplomacy in communicating with the bullies of this remarkable action. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Today, by summarizing the Euro, we thank the entire international community, the Ukrainian people, the officials, the guests, the fans for their appreciation and trust. Words of deep appreciation merit all those who have worked hard throughout the training period for success. I want to remind you that this powerful movement has taken place, despite the calls.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u24	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u25	politicians on the application of appropriate sanctions against the home state. By the way, there's a billion dollars worth of dirt lying around today. Dear colleagues, the implementation of this project has once again demonstrated the ability and willingness of the Ukrainian people to implement this project worldwide.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u26	Thank you. The Stoneman's handing over the Ass. Next Gerasimchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u27	Gennady Bullying, Santa Claus. Dear colleagues, I'm about to switch to Russian so I can understand the Russian population of Ukraine. I apologize for the Ukrainian Parliament, the respected Russian-speaking people of Ukraine, for such foolish actions by the Ukrainian Parliament, which fuel the national strife against the Russian people in Ukraine. The Communists and the Party of the Regions did so. There is no language problem in Ukraine. The number of Russian theatres in regional centres throughout Ukraine, the number of Russian-speaking newspapers has never given rise to the fact that the Russian language in Ukraine is in some bad condition. Now on the subject. In my speech, I want to draw attention to the problems that I discovered during my work visit to the City of Ochaków in the Mikolai district. First of all, debt on salary in front of Ochaków Water Channel employees. On April 30 of this year, Sirena’s utility, which since 2004, provided for the city’s uptake and disposal, has been declared bankrupt. It was found that within five years of the local budget, the difference between the cost of services to the population and the actual costs incurred by the enterprise did not materialize. The city’s debt to the utility company exceeded 5.3 million dollars. And as a result, Siren's utility has incurred an employee debt of almost 500,000 dollars before the employees were released, 186,000 dollars before the management of the Pension Fund in the Ochakow region of 2.6 million dollars. I will note that because of the nonrecalculation of pension contributions to the Pension Fund, during these five years, the employees of the company are not included in the pension scheme for a period of five years, which will have a significant impact on the size of their future pension. It's not hard to put together the figures above and realize that if the city council were to compensate for the intertariff difference in time, these costs would be sufficient for the business's normal financial and economic activity. Therefore, we urge the local authorities to find funds to pay off the debt immediately because of the social protection of Ukrainian citizens. Second, it's a supply of drinking water to the town of Ochaków. In 2011, 10 million dollars were allocated from the budget to repair the pipelines, and iron pipes were replaced with plastic. But it turned out later that the watershed broke out because the folded plastic pipes didn't fit the standard, so they can't handle the pressure and they're tearing. As a result, the quality of water supplies is worse today than before repairs. Today, the water in the resort city is served on schedule, two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening, and the pressure on the water network is so low that in many homes it is impossible to rule out gas columns for heating water. Thirdly, this is the absence of an infectious ward at Ochakov Central District Hospital. Today, the hospital accepts more than 500 visitors for a change, the service area being the 40th - century population of the Ochakov region, and 80,000 vacationers. After all, Oczaków is a resort city with tens of thousands of health facilities, rest bases and facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u28	Thank you. Gerasimczuk, please. It's transmitting. Please, Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u29	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! My statement today is being made in a critical way, you might say, a road situation that occurred in the city of Starocostin in Hmelnicke County with the displacement of people from emergency barracks and the absence of active sewerage in the residential area of the railway station. In the 1990s, in connection with the reduction of military units located in Starokostyanin, three were transferred to municipal property by the government. The barracks where 23 families of 14 children live today, two orphans and two children with disabilities. These barracks were built in prewar years and were used as temporary housing for military and civilian personnel working in the military. Since then, children have been raised, new families have been formed, they have never received apartments and live in inhuman conditions, there are no water, no heat, no bourgeois heating, no more than 14 degrees Fahrenheit [14 ° C] in apartments. The city council is unable to resolve the issue of the displacement of these people because of the lack of funds in the city budget. In the city’s city council, more than 400 families are in line to receive their apartments, with one or two for each year. no one or two apartments are available. That is, for those displaced from the barracks, the prospect is hopeless, and without the help of the State, it is impossible to resolve the issue. Unfortunately, funds from the State Regional Development Fund or the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund in the Hmelnicki district for socio-economic development have not yet been allocated. I am asking Prime Minister Mikolia Janović Azarov to consider this problem at a government meeting and to allocate 10 million dollars to the Starokostian city to move people out of barracks. No less acute in this city was the construction of sewerage in the residential area of the second railway station. The dirt from the houses does not go into the sewers, but it flows on the floor, and for years people have not opened the windows. The microregion is located near a military airport, a nearby railway, a U.S. factory, and chemical warehouses that complement human anthropogenic influence. And once again, they need help from the government budget -- they need to allocate 5 million dollars to build sanitation and make it easier for the people living in the area. I directed a proper MP’s address to Mikola Janovich and ask him to consider and decide positively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u30	Yes, Hasuk, please. I don't see where Gasuk is. Please, Chaplain. Prepare the Player.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk to you about medicine. Thank you, Peter Petrovich, for giving me the opportunity to speak. On behalf of the faction, I want to raise the fundamental problem of our nation, without which the future of our Ukrainian people depends. From this rostrum, there has been repeated talk of a demographic crisis in which two sides are known: low birth rates and anomalous deaths in Ukraine. Yes, compared to 1993, when we had 52.2 million, today we only have 46 million citizens. Let me remind you that today we have 153 seats among 221 countries of the world, with a life expectancy of 68 years in Ukraine. Think about it, almost 40 percent of Ukrainians don't live to be 60. Under these conditions, the stimulation of birth looks cynical, bringing Ukraine closer to African countries, which have a positive population growth due to overbirth, with life expectancy of 50 years, such as Zimbabwe. Of course, it is necessary to fight high mortality, but it is necessary for the State to fight, not the consequences of the problems, but their causes, for it is said to be easier and smarter than war. To fight diseases, poverty, and the helplessness of the state system, medical protection. So a third of Ukrainians, 31.1 percent, are residents of rural areas, who are now virtually disillusioned with where they live. They have eyes down, hands down, and perhaps after 1932-33 last century, the activity of the territorial community, which we were proud of when we voted for Ukraine's independence, remained somewhere in the past. As you can imagine, since the beginning of the last century, the Ukrainian had voluntarily chosen his land or wished to do so. I will remind you, then a brother went to the earth for a brother, and men fought one another to have her mother. Today, peasants are deprived of their prospects. So today, when the Ukrainian Institute of Social Projects carried out its own action, a charity initiative called "Help Hand", in two areas of Ukraine, we have the following statistics: in the medical field, only 5 percent of Ukrainians who live in rural areas voluntarily come to the hospital at least once a year, 95 brings only disaster or chronic or acute disease. And they're going to be late for four or five years. Sometimes when there's nothing more you can do to protect your life. So the solution to this problem lies in total dissipation. We need to turn to the experience that has been introduced today in Europe and has been introduced in the days of the Soviet Union. Because without it, we can't go on living. We call on the State and the Cabinet of Ministers to reverse the policy of destroying rural medicine, stopping the closure of FAPs, pharmacies and district hospitals, and re-establishing the rural survey of preventive and total dissipation in this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u32	I don't have a Kick-Ass, I'm sorry. A player. Please, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I think today we're like the man who's holding the water and the baby. And we can have dirty water, and we can mold the baby, which is extremely dangerous and undesirable. Second. All regions of Ukraine are very diverse in history, mentality, language and culture. And no one can convince today that the same mentality, the history of culture, say, in Crimea and Lviv. From here, there must be an internal multisectoral policy, if you want, including language. Third. Language today is not a means of communication, it's not a cultural history, it's a language tied to geopolitics today. And all those who speak against the Russian language today are all those who follow orders from those in Washington. And I would ask all my colleagues to calm down, because everything about tomorrow is more important than our passions. By the way, note that none of those who speak against Russian do not intend to vote in the southern or eastern regions of Ukraine. Here's the whole answer. Therefore, what has been done is done. We need to calm down and the people will take it all. Let's build up, we'll cause trouble on our heads. Further, to protect everything that can be protected, we need to think carefully. All those screams, all the statements that are being made today, not in favour of the Ukrainian people as a whole, not in favour of the Russian language, are already on the verge of racism. I would like to take the floor further to protect the social interests of the Nikolai people of Zadirko Gennadija Alexandrovich. Only for the protection of social interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u34	Unfortunately, there is no right to broadcast. Zubanov, please. I repeat, unfortunately, there is no such thing. If he started and handed it over, there's a right, and if he used almost his time, well, there's no rule, I can't go. Zubanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u35	Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u36	Miroshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u37	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear voters! Dear colleagues! According to the second part of article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine addressed the Ukrainian Supreme Council with an annual letter on Ukraine's internal and external status in 2012. The message came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday. The message of Heads of State summarizes the country’s life and outlines new tasks. For the summation. The main efforts of the authorities were to overcome the economic crisis, develop the basic sectors of the economy, combat corruption and rebuild an inefficient social protection system. The deadlines were implemented: administrative reform - an optimization of the state administration structure and increased transparency of its activities; tax reform was aimed at reducing the illegal turnover of capital and simplifying participation in the economy of domestic and external investment. Systemic steps have been taken to simplify the conditions of entrepreneurial activity, optimize the judicial system. Modernization of the health and education system is ongoing. Regional development programmes are being implemented. However, in the early stages of the transformation, they were exposed to inertia and opposition from corrupt bureaucracy, which led to the loss of results. The main policy objectives, according to the President, are to involve civil society in the process of producing and implementing the state course, to further increase openness to public policy and public administration, to strengthen the representative component of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. It is necessary to restore to Parliament the status of an authority directly representing the interests of citizens. The implementation of constitutional reforms will answer the question of the relationship of authority between the state and local self-government, the nature and characteristics of the political system of the country, will be an effective basis for ensuring the broad rights of citizens in today's conditions. Changes in the work of public authorities at the regional level. The focus should be on improving the nature of the local authorities’ relations with citizens. For 2012 tasks. It is necessary to continue to reform the national economy and the social sphere, including economic growth, raising social standards and improving the quality of life of citizens, the real economy, detining the economy, increasing its competitiveness, attracting new investments, creating new jobs, liberalising and deregulation of entrepreneurial activities. From the point of view of industrial politics. Bring her in, upgrade her, and implement energy-saving technologies. And reforms in the agar sector, in the security system. Social security, health care, in the humanitarian policy system, in foreign policy. The President of Ukraine is sure, Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u38	Thank you. Anatoly Kinach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u39	Yes, there is Anatoly Kinach. Samofalov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I have specifically asked for the floor today to give my opinion on two issues. The first problem is language. I believe that this is today another stage of the pear company, which is being held today by our opponents, the opposition, because today they have nothing else, that is their last hope. I want to say one thing so that our voters understand what the question is. I went to the Provincial Region of Majority, and people told me to act like, "We want to speak Russian." And just because we're here today doesn't mean everyone's sitting around thinking that they should rule the Power, we're doing it with you today. The will of our constituents. We all have one vote. And no one has the right to make me do what my constituents have said. Therefore, the problem is simple, voted by the majority – it is the law, everything, it is not to be discussed. And that's enough speculation. Second. This is where my young colleague spoke, I spoke to him before, I don't call his last name, so he doesn't have a line, that's a young parliamentary clown. Do you understand? Why? He yells out, "The gang, the gang, the gang." And I asked him a question, and please tell me, what right do you have and even a human conscience to name the 26 heroes of Ukraine and the social worker we have today as bandits? What right do you have to name 88 deserving doctors, teachers, and so on and so forth, who are here? What you have the right to name the people who have received, 15 people, the Ukrainian State Prizes, is your work. After all, Efim Leonidovich Zviagilski spoke yesterday. 50 years in a mine. For a young man to know what it is, it's five hours a day, it's six hours apiece, it's 15 hours apiece, it's 20 minutes apiece, it's got to go to the mine, it's got to go through the mine a thousand meters, 40 degrees a temperature, it's all squeaking and pouring, then it's human grief: the miner goes to the mine, you don't know he's coming back alive or not. And it is the woe of the people that he passes through the heart. Who are you and who is he? What right do you have to call him that? We have Georgi Markovich Skudar, Ukrainian hero, director of the Novokramator factory. Two businesses in Europe today, with which no one can compete, have more than 13,000 employees. They have no problem with the minimum wage or pay. You go over there and talk, and you see how these people are treating them today. I can name all your names for everyone, they're amazing people, they're being held by the economy of the Power today, they're being held by the Power of Ukraine. And I would advise you to apologize to them at all and not allow any more of these things. It's just a basic culture you weren't taught at school. I didn't call your name, you can't raise your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u41	Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u42	Please give the word to Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! My speech will refer to the problems of the lands of science, which are now the subject of abuses and incursions of individual groups and clans, and the fate of the peasants who have worked in these farms for many years, but have not received land particles or pies in the reform process. Referral of members of the Yalosovet Rural Council of the Horol Region of Poltava to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Academy of Agricultural Sciences "The MEPs of the Yalosovétsk Rural Council of the Choral Region of Poltavian Region are very concerned about the situation that has arisen around the long-standing failure to resolve the possibility of privatization and destruction of land in the constant use of the State Enterprise "Research Enterprise of the January 9th National Academy of Agricultural Sciences", which is continuously used on the basis of a national act in the land area of 7 thousand 628.65 hectares. Until now, these lands remain uninflamed, regardless of the fact that, according to statutory regulations, the state-owned enterprise has the right to transfer both a certain proportion of property and property rights, but only with the permission of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine and in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The farm is home to 420 people, and the village council has 513 pensioners from the former employees of the farm, more than 900 potential landowners, who have worked on land for many years, remain unjustly on board land privatization until now. In recent years, both researchers and pensioners have been asked about the possibility of disintegrating parts of the farm land or their partial transfer to municipal property of the territorial communities and the rural council, but these issues have not been resolved positively. According to article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the only source of authority in Ukraine is the people. The people exercise authority directly through the authorities of the State and local self - rule. Therefore, members of the Yalosovétsk Rural Council of the Choral Region of Poltava Region turn to the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Academy of Agrarian Sciences with the hope of a practical solution to the problem and ask people to hear about which imperfect and hastily born legislation allows social injustice, inequality of constitutional rights and inequality before the law, and the presence of restrictions on the signs of work that are unacceptable because it is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u45	Thank you. The speeches are over. Let's move on to ratification issues. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Mongolia on cooperation in the field of emergency prevention and elimination of their consequences. [[Registration number 0258]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:20:44]] For 214 Supported. Reported Deputy Minister of Emergency Situations Kwasuk Vasil Pavlovich. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You will be given a draft Ukrainian Law, which provides for the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Mongolia on cooperation in the field of emergency prevention and the elimination of their consequences, signed on June 29, 2011. The ratification of the treaty will give the Government of Ukraine the right to implement an international agreement that sets out the general principles and framework of mutual, coordinated assistance in the event of an emergency in Ukraine and Mongolia, which is a joint measure to prevent, respond and eliminate emergency situations, train specialists, hold seminars and other measures, and the issue of a simplified crossing of the border in emergency situations. The implementation of the act does not require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. The source of funding, with possible humanitarian aid provided to the Government of Mongolia in the event of an emergency, may be: The State Budget Reserve of Ukraine or other sources In this case, the corresponding expenditure will be regulated by a separate decision of the President of Ukraine or the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Taras Viacheslavovich Czarnovil, the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u48	Yeah, well, the venerable fifteen present in the Chamber of Deputies who make decisions in assessing the situation, and all the rest in relation to the ratification bill. The ratification bill was considered by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We appreciated whether there were threats and whether there was a need for them? The threat to Ukraine is not, the need is very questionable, it is based on the fact that, in fact, the plans of action are possible, because the intersection in these matters is precisely the protection from the extraordinary situations between Ukraine and Mongolia, virtually, there is no problem today with the Mongolian side, that they intend to conduct certain training on the basis of Ukrainian authorities on fire safety, appropriate departments. This agreement enables this to happen. Well, it's a very powerful international document, and since it's no harm, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it possible to ratify it, as we ask, especially considering the fact that Mongolia, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan, with which we are currently being ratified today, are in fact the last countries that are still willing to maintain a normal contractual relationship with us. So please support the ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u49	Yes, thank you. Shall we discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u50	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u51	Besides Easy, no one insists? Then please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u52	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The main threat to our country today is the anti - Ukrainian authority, the anti - Ukrainian majority in the Ukrainian Parliament and the political prisoner, which has left us in political isolation. That's why. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the subject, respectable colleagues, by subject! Your decisions depend on the proportion of millions of people. You make decisions that threaten the national identity of Ukraine, for its territorial integrity, for its national security, you make decisions that threaten the separation of Ukraine, for today the Ukrainian - speaking part of Ukraine and the Russian - speaking part united in hatred of power. And that's why you're asking artificial language questions to split Ukraine. But you're not going to be able to do that, because both people in the East and the West, they're interested in completely different questions, they're interested in questions that you haven't been interested in for a long time, because you've long solved them. You yourself have employed and have employed children, and millions of people have nothing to eat, where to earn a piece of bread, where to find money to heal and pay for community services. This is what millions of Ukrainian citizens are interested in. And all of you, including the decent people who are in this Parliament, but you don't make any laws that solve the problems that interest millions of people. And you throw into the Ukrainian Parliament those laws that split society that split the Ukrainian state. This is the most important threat. From you! Not by fire, not by plague, but by Ukrainian authority! You're worse than the plague, than the fires and the cholera combined. You are the parliamentary majority, the president, the government, your administrators on the ground, you are a major threat to the state. And you can solve this problem one way. Not in the elections, because you, along with the so-called opposition, have passed a law that will allow for the falsification of elections. Only the people can solve this problem. The word is for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u53	Yes, the discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Mongolia on Cooperation in the Area of Emergency Warning and Elimination of Their Consequences. [[Registration number 0228]] Please vote. [[13:26:41]] For 262 Thank you. The treaty has been ratified. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Turkmenistan on Long-term Trade and Economic Cooperation. [[Registration number 0260]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:27:13]] For 228 Supported. The proposals are reported by the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Pavelnko Volodymyr Petrovich. Get ready, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Turkmenistan on Long-term Trade and Economic Cooperation, developed with a view to achieving the validity of the Agreement between Ukraine and Turkmenistan on Long-term Trade and Economic Cooperation, signed by the Presidents of our States last September. An agreement aimed at developing an equal and mutually beneficial trade and economic relationship between Ukraine and Turkmenistan, strengthening interbank relations, establishing joint production structures, stimulating investment activities, implementing interstate trade and economic cooperation programmes. It should be noted that this cooperation, under the terms of the treaty, will take place on the basis of interstate trade and economic cooperation programmes. And it's already signed by the ministers of foreign affairs of our country. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u55	Thank you. Taras Cranville. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I apologize, in the first speech I discussed 20 deputies who are doing their duties here and really thinking about what they are doing in the Supreme Council. I'm talking to you about acceptance, in others and so on, the crosses and zeroes written in the development that you're going to hear. Now, as far as the agreement is concerned. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered it very carefully. We wondered whether all our interests were foreshadowed, whether it was too general, not too framed and whether there was a need for it. We have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to ratify this agreement. Turkmenistan is very important for Ukraine because of its energy relations, because we used to work very seriously there in infrastructure projects. And that's why we really need to do this ratification. But once again, the level of everything that's going on is the level that Ukraine found itself at today, thanks to you gentlemen. This agreement is made only because the leadership of Turkmenistan has changed and the new leadership simply wants it to be their new covenant. We have an active agreement that is no different from this. There's a request from Turkmenistan, we're his. It's perfectly normal. I suggest we vote. The committee's decision is positive. Let's move on. I've reported my papers, and keep printing your laws as you wish. Just think a little bit about how not everything is limited by the blob and the pressure that you're getting and doing here. And what you did yesterday, not for the benefit of your constituents, but by July 12th, before the host arrived, when Putin came and asked him to have a pleasant gift before his arrival, he did not honor you. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u57	Yes, I do not see those who wish to share in the discussion. I can't see. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Turkmenistan on Long-term Trade-Economic Cooperation. [[Registration number 0260]] Please vote. [[13:30:48]] For 260 Thank you. The law is passed. The treaty has been ratified. We are considering a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the amendment of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information. [[Registration number 0257]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:31:29]] For 228 Supported. Reported by Minister of Foreign Affairs Grishenko Kostunica Ivanovich. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan amending the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on Cooperation in the Field of Technical Information Protection, signed in Kiev on 15 December 2011. The submission of the document was prompted by the need to amend the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Tajikistan on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information from 2 April 2004 with the aim of creating a legal basis for a change in the name of the authorised authority of Ukraine responsible for implementing the Agreement. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u59	Yes, thank you, Constantine Ivanovich, sit down, please. The head of the Transport and Liaison Committee, Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich, will report. You don't? Dear colleagues, the committee's conclusion to support the draft Protocol Ratification Act, the same conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, to support the ratification of the protocol. There's no other offer? Is there no objection? Is there no effort? Then I am voting to adopt the Ratification Act of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan amending the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information. [[Registration number 0257]] Please vote. [[13:34:01]] For 262 Thank you. The law is passed. Let's go to the chapter on inclusion in the agenda of the session. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets on Treasury Commitments. [[Bill registration number 10630]] Please, if there is no insistence on discussion, vote. Integrating into the agenda. [[13:34:51]] For 266 Thank you. It's on. There is a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Treasury Obligations. [[Registration number 10631]] Please be supportive. [[13:35:20]] For 263 Thank you. Supported. And there is a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to minimize the risks of natural persons in the financial market and increase the reliability of financial institutions. [[Registration number 10632]] Please vote. [[13:35:54]] For 265 Thank you. Bills are included. Dear colleagues, the committee is asking, and it is ready to be considered so that we can now consider Bills 10630 and 10632. I'm voting on the proposal. Please support us to consider Bill 10630. Draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets on Treasury Liabilities. Please support this proposal so that we can consider it now. The committee is ready to consider. Please vote. [[13:36:46]] For 249 Supported. Then let us vote to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:37:06]] For 233 Supported. Yes, he will also report from the committee, and as the author of the bill, please, Praslov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u60	Dear President! Dear colleagues! The draft law proposes the issuance of treasury obligations in national or foreign currency. We believe that this bill will provide additional opportunities to attract funds into Ukraine's economy and, very important to us, will reduce the cost of foreign exchange loans. And it will also have an important impact on the balance of payments that, you know, has a very strong impact on the exchange rate. The ultimate objective of the proposed bill is to implement a more effective debt policy by the State. It should be noted that the draft had been replaced by the earlier draft, which had been finalized. And in the light of the refinements, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office concluded that it could be adopted, because all the comments of the scientific and expert management were taken into account in a single context. The Ministry of Finance also supports the bill, as stated at the committee meeting by the Deputy Minister of Finance of Merkovsky. The Committee therefore decided, at its meeting, to adopt the bill on first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u61	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? None. Dear colleagues, I confirm the rapporteur's words because this bill was filed in exchange. Indeed, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority made a number of remarks to the first version of the bill, and the author took them into account and counted them completely. This gives rise to the conclusion that all the comments made by the Chief Scientific Expert have been taken into account and the committee has taken a decision, the committee has taken a decision and is asking us to adopt this bill on a basis and as a whole. There's a committee decision. I'm making this proposal for the adoption of the Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Stock Markets in general as a law. [[on Treasury Liabilities]] Please vote. [[13:39:48]] For 259. Thank you. We passed the law. The rest of you there, we'll see what we can do. Yes, let's go to chapter two. 632 we've turned on, but we'll wait for the committee head, he'll give his opinion. He'll be right there. We are considering a draft Act amending the Basic Health Law for Ukraine to impose restrictions on managers and employees of health-care and pharmaceutical establishments in professional activities. [[apothecary]] [[second reading]] Bill registration number 10560. Reported to the Head of the Committee on Health Care of the Bahtejev Tetjana Dmitrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, this bill we have considered and voted in favour of 308 national deputies. On June 14, we reexamined the procedure and unanimously decided to support it. I would like to remind you that the purpose of this bill is to protect Ukrainian citizens from improper actions by managers and employees of preventive and pharmaceutical institutions. The bill is designed to prohibit doctors, other health - care workers from selling medicines in offices, health - care facilities, forcing patients to take medication, prescribe medication on company forms, send patients to the pharmacy and receive perhaps a reward and some bonuses. In addition, the bill also prohibits pharmacies and medical facilities from spreading samples of medical supplies and devices. It is also forbidden to disclose or provide unreliable information about the availability of medical analogues and their prices. On June 14 there were 11 amendments – from Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich two and nine Bachtieu. All adjustments are included. Therefore, our position is to support us in our second reading and in general as a law. It's very necessary, it's a problem that everyone faces every day, so it needs to be gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u63	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. Dear colleagues, all the adjustments, as Aunt Dmitrovna said, are taken into account. Does no one insist on the amendments taken into account to confirm them? I don't see any. Then I propose to the committee to adopt, on the second reading and in general, the Amendment Act to the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law (to impose restrictions on managers of health professionals, pharmaceuticals, pharmacy institutions, professional activities) (registration No. 10560). Please vote. [[13:43:35]] For 263 Decision taken. My fellow Members, you probably know, because there are already reports that the President of Ukraine has met with representatives of the parliamentary factions today and has said such words that, in view of the situation that has now arisen in Parliament, if it fails to achieve the stability of Parliament's work, there are no parliamentary elections excluded for the term. Now, some consultations are continuing on how to find a way out of the situation we're in, including our resignation applications and so on and so forth. That's why we need to work harder with you guys, especially since we haven't actually worked for the first half of this session. So I'm proposing that you and I continue to work on the issues that need to be considered today in about 17 hours. But I think we can handle you faster. I propose that we continue the morning meeting of the Supreme Council until the issues that you and I have to resolve are resolved. Please be supportive. [[13:45:22]] For 255 Thank you. Supported. We need to see you now. Yuri Mikolaiovich, have you consulted or are we going to consider this law a little later? You're ready. Did you consult? Yes, please, then, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving and simplifying the procedure for the state registration of land and property rights. [[Registration number 10365]] [[second reading]] Reported to the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Before starting to follow the table, I would like to say a few words with regard to the conclusion, comments by the expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, I am, frankly, surprised by the conclusions made by our experts in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to comment on them a little bit. There's only three of them. The first observation made by the experts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, referring to the fact that there is a phrase in the law, that one of the central authorities of the executive branch is carrying out certain work related to the law, and other functions provided for in the laws, conclude that the Constitution is being violated. They find no specific violation of the Act on Functions, the Constitution, but the phrase “other functions” is regarded as a violation of the Constitution. That's full. It's not even decent. Second moment. They did not read the law until the end, and conclude that the notary, when it registers and registers the real estate contract, sends to the Ministry e-mail documents scanned and the originals remain with the notary. They write, without knowing it, that the law has not been settled. How will material agents go to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine? The law has made this clear: they will go by e-mail. And the responsibility for the quality of those documents rests with the notary. Therefore, he must have additional insurance for this and additional liability, and it is included in the law. It's all about, well, surprise and quality of work claims. Now for the table itself. Most rights are taken into account. The main struggle has taken place around the time to introduce, transfer the function of registering property rights, renting or using real estate from the current BTI bodies to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Thus, under this law, the Committee recommends to you, and the remedies are taken into account in such a way as to translate this function, as we have decided last year, only from 1 January 2013. This was the main issue, the largest number of rights given on this issue. And the second. And the last. I would like to say that there have been attempts on various sides to restore certain functions to the BTI authorities themselves with regard to the registration of property or to establish unique, exclusive, non-legislative functions in the city of Kiev. The Committee also felt that we could not have the right of Kiev or of Poltava or of the Donetsk. The right must be uniform throughout Ukraine. And the one project has to be all over Ukraine. That's what it's all about. I'm ready to go after every single amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u65	Yes, dear colleagues, let's go to the table. 1 amendment. Layers don't insist. Carmazine, 5th. None. Gordyenka, 9th. Don't insist. I was a woman, 12th. Don't insist. Cooking Igor, 13th. Don't insist. I was a woman, 15th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 22nd. Don't insist. Osaka, 26th. Don't insist. Pisarenko, 33rd. Don't insist. Osaka, 41st. Don't insist. Borisov, 44th. Don't insist. 48th, Osika. Nor does he insist. Then I make a proposal to the committee. Although the Office of the Chief of Law has called for observations, I propose that the Committee adopt a second reading and, as a whole, the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve and simplify the procedure for the State registration of land and goods rights for immovable property. [[Registration number 10365]] Please vote. [[13:50:54]] For 233 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you to meet our colleague Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk right now. He must report two laws, and from the hospital he came to report. I think we're going to look at these two bills now, and then we're going to go back to the bills, and I'm going to tell you what the second reading is. We now have to consider Law 10431 and 10491: "On Defence Planning Organization" and on the involvement of the Armed Forces in international operations. In view of objective circumstances, there will be no objection? The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning is then under consideration. [[Registration number 10431]] I ask you to support the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:52:12]] For 234 Yes, thank you, supported offer. Please report to Deputy Defence Minister Vladimir Mikolayovich Možarowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning was drafted by the Ministry of Defence to implement the Ukrainian Law, which approved Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme for 2010. The main objective of this project is to improve the existing defence planning system. The draft law will determine the main efforts of the executives involved in the security and defence tasks of Ukraine, and it will provide for the planning, development, long - term, medium - term, and short - term. The adoption of this bill will allow the legislative level to introduce a single structure and order for the development of defence policy documents, bring defensive planning periods into line with the country's economic and social development planning periods and ensure that adequate defences between Ukraine and financial resources are improved, and that the mechanism for monitoring the use of defence resources is improved. The draft law was approved at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers and was discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on National Security and Defence. I ask the people's deputies to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u67	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence, Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The National Defence and Security Committee considered the draft bill, by the way, voted unanimously by the Committee. The goal is to bring the period of defence planning in line with the periods of economic and social development planning in Ukraine, the introduction of the only cross-planning of military special technology weapons, the alignment of defence planning with strategic planning for the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations, the state special transport service, the planning of law enforcement agencies. By the way, this is the result of this bill, including those parliamentary hearings that were held in the Supreme Council in April. In May. The issues of the bill will not require additional financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine, will contribute to the implementation of the defence planning period in line with economic and social development planning. All the remarks that have been made in the drafting of the project are all brought to our legislation. The Committee of the Supreme Council proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be recommended on the basis of the first reading of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u69	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Are there speakers? We're voting, aren't we? I then put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the first reading a draft law amending the Ukrainian Defence Planning Act. [[on the improvement of the law]] [[Registration number 10431]] Please vote. [[13:56:32]] For 262 Thank you. Copy that. And we are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in international peace and security operations. [[Registration number 10491]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[13:57:04]] For 226 Supported. He reports – Deputy Defence Minister Možarowski Vladimir Mikolaiovich, to prepare Kuzmuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u70	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I apologize to the honourable national deputies! The draft law was drafted in accordance with the requirements of the Presidential Decree. It envisions changes to the ten related laws of Ukraine as part of the introduction of the standards that are now being applied to the United Nations and other international security organizations. Major changes are made to the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine’s participation in international peacekeeping operations. The use of the term "international peacekeeping operation" to date limits the ability to stop the Ukrainian Armed Forces in other activities of the United Nations Organizations in response to crisis situations. As a result, the draft law replaces the term "international peacekeeping operations" with "international peace and security operations." The draft law replaces the concept of "peacemaking contingents and personnel" with "national contingents and national staff", introduces the concept of "rich national military formations of high readiness", and identifies the legal basis for their creation, the principles of assembly, preparation, the application of new challenges and threats to international security. The decision-making mechanism for the deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states remains unchanged and is only on the basis of a decision of the President of Ukraine approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft law was reviewed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence and the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration and proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take it as a basis for the first reading. I'm asking the people's deputies to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u71	Thank you. Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The National Security and Defence Committee has considered and supported, apart from one person, this bill. The purpose of this law is to define the concept of "rich national military formations of high readiness", the conditions for the participation of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in the identified formations, the general principles of the assembly and preparation of the special forces, and the expansion of the boundaries of participation in operations in support of the peace and security of the United Nations. The main scientific and expert office, after reviewing the bill, made a number of comments on its content. These observations are mostly technical and have been removed during the process of processing. The adoption of this bill does not require additional financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine, will expand the course of international operations that Ukraine may be involved in. In view of the above, the committee proposes: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the bill to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u73	Yes, thank you. Yes, Matthew. Others don't insist? Please, Matthew Valentina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u74	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, yesterday, as you recall, when considering the inclusion of the bill in the agenda of the day session, I was already paying attention, and today I would like to point out once again that not everything is as simple as the reporter, and the co-rapporteur, in this bill. What is it? Because it would have to be frank to say that the project proposes to fundamentally change the legal framework for operations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Nothing was said about it. And you and I know that this gives the army and the Armed Forces personnel the right to participate in international operations involving multinational military formations of high readiness not only to prevent interstate or internal conflicts, Alexandre Ivanovich, but also to provide humanitarian assistance to the civilian population affected by this conflict, and to carry out combat tasks, I emphasize, combat tasks. And this isn't even Côte d'Ivoire, which is what the majority voted against, much of it in the Supreme Council, and that's part of the fight. And I'm asking again questions, dear colleagues from the Party of Regions. What, then, about the law that you and I passed on the principles of internal politics since July 1st, 2010?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u75	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u76	Thank you. . where the principle of non-locking was established. I understand that it may be necessary to make recommendations to the Chicago summit, but have we come near you to expand our cooperation, particularly with NATO? And I think we should listen to the general conclusion of the scientific and expert administration, which suggests that, as a result of the first reading of the bill, the subject should be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. These problems need to be addressed in accordance with valid legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, the project has been discussed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws. [[on the participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in international peace and security operations]] [[Registration number 10491]] [[14:04:42]] For 233 Thank you. The Law was adopted in the first reading. Yes, here we go. Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich, for participating in Parliament's work. We are continuing our consideration of the Second Reading Bills. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[concerning the licensing of imports of medicinal products and the definition of the term "active pharmaceutical ingredients"]] [[Registration number 10562]] [[second reading]] Michaelo Vasilovich Chechetov, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee considered the bill in a second reading. He identified himself in a separate position and suggested that the Supreme Council support the bill in the form proposed by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u79	Thank you. Yeah, I'm sorry. Strange. Declined first. Don't insist. Bachteyevt, edited. Strange, 8th. 11th, it's his. Don't insist. Panocchik, 16th. Don't insist. Everything else is taken into account or counted in an editorial way. The conclusion of the General Legal Authority that the bill is to be rejected. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and generally as a law on amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the licensing of imports of medical devices and the definition of the term active pharmaceutical ingredients. [[Registration number 10562]] Please vote. [[2:07:03]] For 259. Thank you, the law has been passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. [[concerning the functions of the authorised authority]] [[Registration number 8491]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I'm going to remind you of the content of the bill. Ukraine's Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations on the Production and Exchange of Ethylene, Horsey and Fruit Spirits, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, proposes to improve the order for the transformation of licences and ensuring effective control over the implementation of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. As well as coming to pay for the budget licenses. This law was adopted in the first reading, which was based on 17.05. 2012. The bill had 16 proposals, 14 of which were included. In fact, the bill is agreed upon and ready to be voted on in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u81	Yes, dear fellows! Bondarev, 2nd Amendment, overruled. Don't insist. Lappina, 6th. Don't insist. Yeah, the rest are accounted for. Registered by the Chief Legal Authority without notice. The Committee proposes to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, equine and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. [[concerning the functions of the authorised authority]] [[Registration number 8491]] Please vote. [[14:09:50]] For 254 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal liability for the avoidance of punishment. [[Registration number 6681]] He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Oliynik Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, please. Is there no Olinick? All right. Something. No, let's wait, maybe it'll work. Then we are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on social protection for military personnel, paying one-off cash in the event of their loss, disability or partial loss of employment without establishing disability. [[death]] [[Bill No. 7277]] Report to the First Deputy Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Greenewsky Sergey Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u82	Thank you. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence, has been assisted by a draft Act, submitted by the People's Deputies of Greenewets, Samoilenka, amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on social protection of military personnel, paying one-time financial assistance in the event of their death, disability or partial disability. A second reading of the bill came with 61 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies. Of the proposals proposed, a total of 45 are included in the Committee's 8 editions, unaccounted for -1 rejected -5. People’s deputies, officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, military formation specialists, and law enforcement agencies were involved in the preparation of the draft law for the second reading. Other central authorities of executive power. This work takes into account all the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The changes and additions made to the project have greatly enhanced its content. The implementation of the draft law in question does not affect the implementation of the State Budget Act of Ukraine in the current budget period, does not need to be amended, and does not comply with the Ukrainian Budget Code itself. This law of Ukraine, if adopted by Parliament as a law, is proposed to enter into force on January 1, 2014. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. The committee at its meeting unanimously supported this bill by proposing that it be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, let's go to the repairs. Digger, 9 is rejected. Don't insist. Layers included in the committee's editorials. It's the same thing as Carmazin. Sharov 13th is part of the committee. 14th, Prokopchuk. Declined. Don't insist. Redneck, 17th. Don't insist. The digger, 21st, doesn't insist. Sharov. It's an editorial, 30th, committee. Not counted. Sharov, 36th. Don't insist. Baranov. It's part of the committee. Overruled. 60th, Propagchuk. Don't insist. Everyone else is accounted for. The bill is being drafted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority. The committee suggests that we take this as a whole. I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection of military personnel, payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of their death, disability or partial loss of employment without establishing disability. [[death]] [[Registration number 7277]] Please vote. [[14:15:02]] For 249 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending article 37 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. [[on the increase in the income portion of the general government social insurance funds]] [[resecond reading]] [[Registration number 8508]] Reports the head of the Committee on Justice’s subcommittee, Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich. Please, Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Justice discussed at its meeting on June 6, in a second reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on second reading and, as a whole, as a law. [[on increasing the income portion of the general government social insurance funds]] [[Registration number 8508]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u85	We'll follow the amendments. Filipenko, 2nd, Pritica. Edited. Don't insist. Suskevich, 5th. Edited. Cranberry, 7th. Edited. Strange, 10th. Overruled. Don't insist. A bill with observations was called for by the Chief Legal Authority. The Committee on Justice proposes that the second reading be adopted as a whole. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Amendment Act to Article 37 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. [[on increasing the income portion of the general government social insurance funds]] [[Registration number 8508]] Please vote. [[14:17:25]] For-66 Not supported. There's no other offer? Then Bill 8508 was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on participation in a video conference session. [[Registration number 9753]] Reported by the head of the Committee on Justice, Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was introduced on January 26, 2012 and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading on May 15, 2012. He foresees the possibility for the trial to participate in a video conference. To this end, it is proposed to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Economic and Procedural Code, to the administrative judiciary, the Code, the Civil Code of Ukraine. They set the basis and order for the exercise of this right. It should be noted that the new Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine already contains rules on the possibility of participating in a video conference. Such norms will certainly contribute to a more effective realization of the right of persons to the protection of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of independence by the court. During the drafting of the bill, 37 amendments were made to the second reading. As a result of a review of the bill by the Justice Committee on June 6, 2012, 30 of them were rejected, including on an editorial basis. In general, the concept of first reading, supported in the session hall, is preserved. The result of the committee’s work is given a table for the second reading. Please support the drafting proposed by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u87	Thank you. We're going after the repairs. Yes, Carmazin, the second is an editorial. Yavorowski, 4th. Overruled. Don't insist. Carmazine, 12th. Edited. Yavorowski, 14th. Overruled. Don't insist. Carmazine, accounted for, 23rd, editorially. Yavorowski, 25th. Overruled. Don't insist. Carmazine, 31st. Overruled. Don't insist. 32nd, Yavorowski. Don't insist. Everything else is accounted for. The principal legal administration was concerned with observations. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. I propose to the committee: to adopt the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on participation in a video conference session. [[Registration number 9753]] Please vote. [[14:20:34]] For 222 Dear colleagues, who's in charge of getting back to the vote? [[14:20:58]] For 252 We're back. I would like to vote on the whole Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on participation in a video conference session. [[Registration number 9753]] Please vote. [[14:21:26]] For 260 The law is passed. We are considering: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving securities legislation. [[Registration number 8120-d]] Report to the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Prassolov Igor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u88	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, therefore the bill was drafted on the basis of six different bills concerning the market for securities and the stock market. The second reading was followed by 203 proposals from the people's deputies and the National Bank. The vast majority - 139 amendments are taken into account in general, 29 amendments taken into account in part, essentially or editorially, 35 amendments were rejected. It should be noted that almost all proposals, first and foremost, rejected, are accompanied by a corresponding argument in the second reading document. Dear colleagues, due to the lengthy bill, two technical clarifications should be made before the drafting. I'm asking for a transcript. The fourth paragraph of the new edition of article 48 of the Securities and Stock Markets Act will be supplemented by the words: "to be a member of it during the entire period of its availability as an SRO. In section II, paragraph 1, "End and transitional positions", replace the words "six months from the date of publication" with "sue of January 1, 2013". This is necessary to ensure clarity in regulatory policy. In addition, a technical and legal clarification of the text would have to be made taking into account the comments of the legal administration. The Committee proposes that the law be adopted on second reading and generally as a law. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u89	Yeah, let's get some repairs. Teryohin, 7th. Edited. Teryochin, rejected, 13th, does not insist. Teryochin, 18th, rejected. Don't insist. 22nd Teryohin. Declined. 24th. 29th, Teryochina. And the 30th. Don't insist. 31st, Carmazin. Don't insist. 32nd, Caplienne, Rybakov. Don't insist. Carmazine, 37th. 41st, Teryohin. 44th, Terjehohin. Condratuk, 51st. Don't insist. Teryohin, 52nd. Don't insist. Teryohin, 60th, 61st, 62nd. Don't insist. It's 85, Condratiuk. Don't insist. Condratuk, 100th. Don't insist. 102nd Carmazin. Don't insist. 108th, Condratiuk. Don't insist. 120th, Terjehohin. Declined. 129th National Bank. Declined. Don't insist. 130th. Carmazine. Declined. Don't insist. 159th. The National Bank. Declined. 163th. Carmazine. Don't insist. 165th. It's his. 169th. Carmazine. Everyone else is accounted for. No one insists on those who are counted for confirmation? No, it's not. Then I'm voting on the committee's proposal: to accept, in the second reading and in general, those amendments, taking into account the amendments made by the rapporteur, and to entrust the Chief Legal Authority with the technical and legal editing. With these proposals, I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving securities legislation. [[Registration number 8120-d]] Please vote. [[14:27:34]] For 249 Thank you. The law is passed. We're looking at the draft Banking Authority Foundations Act. [[Registration number 9093]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u90	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, has received 221 proposals, 141 of which are included and 14 are also taken into account by the National Bank. But now there are some other comments from the National Bank. So I would ask that we finally agree on this bill, remove it today, maybe transfer it to tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u91	Yes, there will be no objection, dear colleagues? There's no need to vote. No one insists. Okay. Bill 9093: The review is likely to be carried over to the next session. We're looking at the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine. [[on the implementation of the project for the construction of infrastructure objects in the Kyiv region]] [[Registration number 9649-d]] Reported the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u92	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the bill is also ready for consideration in the second reading. There were 11 suggestions, one proposal rejected, the rest taken into account. So Bill 9649-d, the amendments to the Tax Code, namely, "Transitional Regulations" is ready for consideration in the second reading and adoption as a whole. [[on the implementation of the project for the construction of infrastructure objects in the Kyiv region]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u93	So, here, consider, fellow respectable colleagues, that 5, 6 pages is given another comparative table in addition. Sharov's 6th amendment was rejected. Don't you insist? All other corrections are taken into account or taken into account editorially. I then put to the vote the committee's proposal, although the Chief Legal Authority has made remarks and wrote that the bill needs to be redrafted. The committee proposes to adopt, on second reading and in general, the Act amending Chapter XX of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on the implementation of the project for the construction of infrastructure objects in the Kyiv region]] [[Registration number 9649-d]] Please vote. [[14:31:09]] For 249 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on public procurement. [[Registration number 9634]] Report to the Committee on Economic Policy of Plonikov Alexy Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u94	The Honourable Chairman of the National Deputies, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, proposed a bill amending certain legislative acts on public procurement was adopted by the Supreme Council on February 9, 2012. [[Registration number 9634]] This bill is designed to improve legislation in the field of public procurement and it is proposed to amend the Code of Masters, the laws of Ukraine, the State Audit Service, the State Procurement Act. So here it's proposed to clarify the mandate of the Minoeconomic Development in monitoring functions, to introduce the possibility of purchasing under a reduced food procedure, to establish cases of differences in the procurement procedure of one participant, customers, and so on. It should be noted that on March 15, 2012, in connection with the appeal of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the need for further processing of its individual regulations and the preparation of a harmonized edition, a review of the draft law by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was postponed and a comparative table was returned to the Committee on Economic Policy. During this time, some national MPs have withdrawn their proposals to the bill and therefore 25 amendments from the national MPs are included in the comparative table and 7 of them are proposed by the Committee in full or in part. Other amendments are rejected. The principal legal administration also made comments. However, the committee does not support them because they have such a general discussion. So the committee is proposing that this project 9634 be adopted as a law as a whole in a second reading. If there are questions about the amendments, I am ready to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u95	Thank you, Alexei Vitaliovich. We're going after the repairs. Matchuk, 1 amendment, was rejected, but he was already in office yesterday. Yes, Jankowski, 4th is essentially accounted for. Don't insist. Carmazin, 5th is essentially accounted for. Don't insist. 6th Carmazine is down. 8th, Carmazin is down. Dutch, 9th. Don't insist. Tomenko, 11th. Don't insist. Boguslaev, 12th. Don't insist. Zabarsky, 13th is rejected. Don't insist. Snack, 14th. Don't insist. Dutch, 15th. Don't insist. 16th Carmazine. Don't insist. Carmazine, 20th. Don't insist. 21st, Tomenko is down. Don't insist. Carmazine, 24. Don't insist. The rest of the amendments are taken into account or taken into account editorially. The Professional Committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. The main legal office, as the reporter said, called for a project with observations that he needed further work. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt, in a second reading and as a whole, the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on public procurement. [[Registration number 9634]] Please vote. [[14:35:14]] For 241 The law is passed. Yes, dear colleagues, we have postponed the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The reporter is Oljinik Volodymir. Is there no one from the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement? Then, with your permission, come on. We are considering a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal liability for the avoidance of punishment. [[Registration number 6681]] Corrections. Corrections, repairs. Three repairs. Carmazin’s 1 correction is rejected. Don't insist. 2 revisions. Strange. Don't insist. 3rd, Carmazine. Don't insist. Strange, 4th. Don't insist. Six-oh, that's him. Don't insist. 7th, Carmazine. Don't insist. 8th and 9th Strange. Don't insist. Then I put the committee's proposal to the vote. Although the Chief Legal Authority had called for a bill without notice, it had been overlooked. The Professional Committee proposes to adopt, in the second reading and in general, as a law on the introduction of amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal liability for the avoidance of punishment. [[Registration number 6681]] Please vote. [[14:36:56]] For-40 Not supported. So the bill is rejected. Those bills that we were about to consider in our second reading, we considered. Let's go back to our first reading. The issue is being addressed -- the draft Law amending the Law on Electricity in Ukraine. [[on the promotion of electricity generation from alternative sources of energy]] [[Registration number 10183]] There is a proposal to consider a bill with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Grey Igor Fedorovich. [[14:37:43]] For 204 Sharov's offer is supported. We're looking at a short-term bill. He reports to the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Romanyuk Mikopovich. He's one of the authors and the committee. You have four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u96	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is presented to the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, introduced by the People's Deputies of Ljovčina, Miroshničenko, Romanyuk. [[on the promotion of electricity generation of alternative sources of energy]] [[Registration number 10183]] Today's renewable energy sources are extremely important for Ukraine's economy. Against the backdrop of a steady rise in prices, traditional sources of energy have to do with the appeal of alternative sources of energy to the independence of prices from world gas or oil prices. Ukraine, with considerable potential for the development of renewable energy sources, is not using it effectively enough to date. The draft law is designed to stimulate the production of electricity from renewable sources of energy, the wide and efficient use of its potential, and the creation of favourable conditions for development in Ukraine of production using different kinds of alternative sources of energy. The adoption of the bill will help increase the share of alternative energy use in Ukraine's energy, reduce dependence on imports of hydrocarbons and their negative impact on the environment. The bill proposes to amend a number of articles of the Ukrainian Electricity Act. That is, new concepts are introduced for wind, wind, start-up and biogas, and the definition of biomass is defined. In addition, the system of applying green tariffs to electricity produced from alternative sources of energy is being improved, taking into account the date of entry into service of electrical objects. The order in which parts of the components, raw materials, labors, and services of Ukrainian origin used in the generating equipment of the electrical power plant are developed is improving. The proposed amendments to Ukraine's Electricity Act improve the legislative mechanism to stimulate development and use alternative sources of energy, to improve Ukraine's energy and payment balance, and to encourage the creation of new jobs. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft law on first reading as a basis. [[Registration number 10183]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u97	Thank you. Yes, are there willing to share in the discussion? Yes. Sign up. They're desirable. Sign up. Yes, please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, we have supported, supported and supported all things and all measures, and all legislative initiatives that relate to increasing the share of energy, such as electricity, which is produced from alternative or renewable sources of energy. Any legislative proposal to which the criticism would not yield, I think, would have to find support in our national parliament's sessional evil. We, the People's Party faction, welcome this proposal and consider that the more there will be a share of renewable alternative energy in the balance, the energy balance in Ukraine, the more our country will be independent of energy. It's going to be energy independent, you could say to a large extent, it's also spreading to total independence. It's worth supporting this bill, in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u99	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I'm putting the motion to a vote, the committee's proposing to take the basis, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the bill can also be adopted on the basis of a vote, so I'm putting forward a proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the promotion of electricity generation from alternative sources of energy]] [[Registration number 10183]] Please vote. [[14:43:09]] For 258. Copy that. We are considering: the draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. [[on property rights]] [[Bill registration number 10577]] He was supposed to report to Deputy Justice Minister Vorona Dmitry Mikolaiovich, but he asked that he meet with the Prime Minister for a while. If it works, we'll go back to this bill. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to simplify procedures and shorten the time limits for obtaining land rights. [[Registration number 10019]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:44:25]] For 218. Offer supported. Reported by national deputy Karakai Yuri Vasilovich. Prepare the Smiling.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, perhaps any man in any country of the world in order to have a family, to be happy in it, needs housing. We know that this problem has unfortunately not yet been fully solved in our country. And one of the problems is that construction organizations have long and very, very, very, very difficult schemes, and they get arbitrary documentation. One of the main problems in obtaining a permit is obtaining a land permit. I'll give you the statistics. . Obviously it's not the term that this construction project can be cost-effective. The bill introduces clear, transparent mechanisms for resolving the issue. According to experts, this may allow double the deadlines for obtaining documentation for construction organizations to be reduced as a minimum. Of course, it will also help to implement the program that the President has put before the government to provide affordable housing for the citizens of our country. During the discussion of the bill in the profile committee, comments were made. They, like the observation of science and science, can be considered in the second reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Member of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, Smitius Grigori Yedkomovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is given to Bill No. 10019, which proposes to amend Ukraine's Land Code and other legislative acts, which the author claims should simplify the procedure for land rights. As far as the bill is concerned, the following must be determined. First. The proposal to grant renters State and municipal property to alienate lease rights cannot be supported because it is not acceptable when the rent rights obtained free of charge from the State can actually be sold by renters to others. Moreover, it is not clear what prevents the renter from passing on the leased land to other persons, provided that this is provided for by valid legislation. The other one. The bill proposes to establish that land relations are governed not only by land but also by urban legislation. This is not acceptable, for city - building laws are exclusively related to urban activities. Third. The Committee also does not support the right under which, when an application for a permit to develop a project has not been considered for the removal of land, that permit is considered to be granted in a silent manner. The introduction of such regulations would make it impossible to register government land areas formed under the project’s land structure. This is explained by the fact that, according to part three of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre, the existence of a written permit is a mandatory condition for the national registration of land. Moreover, as a result of the introduction of the proposed standards, it is quite possible that projects in the land administration regarding the removal of the same land may be developed simultaneously by several individuals. The committee recommends the Supreme Council. The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u103	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u104	The committee's decision is to reject the bill. As far as my personal opinion is concerned, this bill can only be adopted in the first reading if changes are made, and the comments I made at the committee meeting will be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u105	Thank you. But that was a personal thought, for the committee's conclusion was different. Yes, are you willing to share in the discussion? You don't? Please sign up. Yes, please, Mankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u106	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u107	Please, Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, when we discussed the need for this bill to be put into the agenda, there might have been an impression that it was a good bill and how great it was when the state registration on land would not be 14 days, but 5 days. I mean, it might seem that this bill is going to take away the bureaucratic burden and involve those people who are engaged in entrepreneurial activities and just citizens who need to be legitimized by the State if there's no rules here that cause me to be strongly opposed. And it's not that I don't get it, and I'm not going to be able to support it, because right now, today we're seeing forests being cut out around Kiev just wildly. Look what the author is proposing. It is proposed to remove the formation of "and forestry" from part four of article 20 of the Earth Code. What does some district governments do now and then? A citizen is given a land plot in the forest for agricultural production, as was done under Borispol, in the village of Gora. Can you imagine, in a forest for agricultural production? Then this land. Then this forest is cut off, the man recently paid, and here they built a gas station, 60,000 bracelets, and the forest is gone, part of Kiev's lungs are cut off, you can't do that. Because the target has been changed, the forest is gone, no one in the village will be doing agriculture, there will be one: Nico Mototrans is doing some service stations, and on the other they're building filling stations. Colleagues, if we go on like this, around Dnipropetrovsk and Donetsk, around Kiev especially and Chernigov and other regional cities where there are forests, there is nothing left to do. And I can't understand the logic of this bill, except that instead of 14 days -- five days, I can't understand it, except that it will contribute to the further looting and placement of those lands that can't be touched, and I mean forests first.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u109	Yes, please, Gordien Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u110	Sergey Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian company. The faction of Ukraine's Company is completely in solidarity with the committee of profile, which proposes to reject this bill and we emphasize that many bills are being initiated, that it is as if the land issues in these bills are being settled except for a good one, at first glance, the name is usually of no use at all, which would be directed to settle matters and to make some steps to the common people. And in these bills, there's a lot of negative things going on that's going to happen. I'm sure they'll bring these bills. Absolutely, tell me, let's do statistics on how many ordinary citizens ask for these areas to be allocated somewhere in the forest and so on. It's probably a zero. Let's look at completely ridiculous things when a special permit we can get so that it doesn't. I didn't do it. Let's see what the silent agreement is. Completely unacceptable bills from the point of view of common people. Dear colleagues, let's unblock and look at the problems that are in the Lands, they're based on state bodies, they're created entrepreneurship structures that don't do contractual obligations for years, and people can't get an act of state on land or on pie. Let's see that they haven't been able to register land for years. And let's take a very careful look at the work of a government land cadastre, a pretty crafty structure, which is what private accounts charge, and it doesn't register for years on land.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u111	Finish up. Done?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u112	I propose not to support this bill. And the faction of the Company of Ukraine will be grateful who does.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u113	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. The committee's proposing a rejection. The same position as the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that the bill should be sent for further work. I'll make the author's proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading. Bill No. 10019: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify procedures and shorten the time limits for obtaining land. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:55:28]] For 210 The bill is not supported. Overruled. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. [[on the organization of checks on farm subjects]] [[Registration number 10462]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:56:07]] For 225 Offer supported. Reported the author of the bill, National Deputy of Ukraine Smythuch Grigory Evdzimovich. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the need for the adoption of Bill 10462, I believe, has been the result of the circumstances that are now in our state in the real economy and in the verification bodies that control the activities of enterprises. This bill, I believe, was drafted and sent along with other bills that are in the Supreme Council, is Bill 10461 and 10542. 10542 is a bill amending the Law on Search and Search, and 10461 is amending the Tax Code. What made it necessary to prepare such legislation? It is for this very reason that businesses should be encouraged not to allow unwarranted, non-scheduled, non-scheduled tests aimed at ensuring that businesses operate in a stable manner. The bill provides for the strengthening of the role of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. There is a ban on checks and distractions from the entrepreneurial activities of anonymous operators, as well as other unfounded claims and irreparability of the responsibility of individuals to submit such applications. It is established that State oversight is exercised only on the basis of the existence of a legal order. [[control]] In doing so, it is not possible to duplicate governmental oversight by various authorities on the same subject of entrepreneurial activity. [[control]] Planned action is expected to be carried out only by government authorities in a comprehensive manner and on the basis of their joint decisions. [[control]] Over one year, more than one measure of State oversight for one subject is not allowed. [[control]] Inadmissibility is established for more than five years of planned and out-of-plan inspections of industrial and agricultural products.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u115	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u116	during the last year. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to consider this bill with those bills that I have called. And that will be the first step, a step toward improving the situation that has taken place today in Ukraine. Please support the basis, and in the process of processing we will take into account other points of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u117	And co-reported by the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Chechtov by Mikhail Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 6 June 2012 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Smythuch H.E. [[on the organization of checks on farm subjects]] [[Registration number 10462]] The aim of the bill is to organize checks and other measures of State oversight while ensuring their effectiveness and speeding up Ukraine's economic and social development. [[control]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 19.06. In 2012 on the bill stated that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Fundamental Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity could be adopted on the basis of the following observations and proposals. [[on the organization of checks on farm subjects]] After considering the bill, members of the committee supported the bill’s proposals to prevent monitoring bodies from violating the requirements of legislation in carrying out checks on the economic activities of operators. Planned control measures, planned control measures are only complex, based on joint decisions. But not allowing any more State control measures during the year, which will in general contribute to business development. In the light of the foregoing, the members of the committee decided on a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity, to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to propose to accept it as a basis. [[on the organization and verification of farm subjects]] [[Registration number 10462]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u119	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Are there speakers? Yes, please sign in. Please, Bully. Get ready, Gordy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u120	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, at last I can speak. The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill and for what reasons. Well, really, today the state is experiencing very and very serious pressure on small and medium-sized businesses. But the state today needs to understand that jobs are very fast, and this is the kind of business that can provide. And what's going on in the labor market today, we know today. So today we need to adopt a number of bills that will support the development of medium and small businesses. The bill proposes that checks and other measures of State oversight and control be arranged and that their effectiveness be ensured. And they're clarifying the scope of the law, banning the removal of their financial, accounting and other documents from economic entities. I want to say that in Santa, which I represent, unfortunately, there are sad cases where law enforcement agencies, tax authorities, delete documents, firms can't work. And that, in fact, leads to the bankruptcy and destruction of very, very serious companies that provide the budget and provide jobs to dozens of people in Mikolayev. So this is a very nice initiative of our colleague Smittuh. So it's clear today that the state has to put itself a little differently and treat entrepreneurs. And the very question is: raising the issue of limitations of testing, I think today is an opportunity for entrepreneurs to look to the future more confidently. That is why our parliamentary group will support this bill. which benefits both support and budget, and gives development to small and medium-sized businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u121	Yes, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u122	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. The faction of the Company of Ukraine proposes to support the bill in its first reading. We want to draw attention to what really today is chaoticity in testing, sometimes of a purposeful and orderly nature. Today, environmental services are being tested and huge amounts of fines are being collected for agricultural enterprises, including organics there and so on, which actually places individual bankruptcy on the verge of bankruptcy. I would like to draw attention to the fact that often, including the power structures, law enforcement and prosecutorial require baseless documents. Today, too, I would like to draw attention to what rural and rural councils are asking to provide, to draw up names of landowners and the entire range of documents there to which either the heir is formed, and so on. It's causing a lot of anxiety. Therefore, it is generally necessary to draft a bill on the basic principles of State oversight and control in the field of economic activity. But I emphasize that we should vote only on the first reading and work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u123	Yes, thank you. The other factions don't insist on the performance? The proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis in the first reading the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity is put to the vote. [[on the organization of checks on farm subjects]] [[Registration number 10462]] Please vote. [[15:05:42]] For 260 Adopted in the first reading. We're looking at the draft decree on the 150th anniversary of Boris Dmitrovich Grinchenko. [[Registration number 10318]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[15:06:17]] For 229 Supported. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Lutsky Maksim Georgievic. None. Yes, from the Yavorowski Committee, too. The Committee's conclusion is to be accepted as a basis and, in general, to take into account the Committee's proposals. So let me read out what suggestions the committee is making. The committee proposes to make such changes to the text of the bill. In the title and in the entire text, except for the preamble, use the term "Boris Grinchenko." Paragraph 3 reads as follows: “Recommend to the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine to organize thematic television and radio broadcasts on the life and activities of Boris Grinchenko and to provide media coverage in connection with the 150th anniversary of his birth”. In sub-paragraph 4. 3 paragraph 4 replace the word "eternality" with "eternality." The word "S. Borschev of the Kharkiv Region" is replaced by "Selk of Borschev of the Kharkiv region of Kharkiv". In sub-paragraph 4. 7 paragraph 4 of the word "city of Boyarca," replace "city of the Kyiv region". To supplement the provision in paragraph 6 of the following sentence: "This decision has been effective since its adoption." I think you can and should agree with these suggestions. That's why. Are there not those who wish to share in the discussion? None. Then, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to accept as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals that I have made, which are in the committee's application, the decree to mark the 150th anniversary of Boris Dmitrovitch Grinchenko's birth. [[Registration number 10318]] Please vote. [[15:08:47]] For 261 It's been decided. Yes, dear colleagues, the Deputy Minister of Justice is still at the meeting, but I think we can, is a co-reporter from the committee. Then let's consider the draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. [[on property rights]] [[Bill registration number 10577]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[15:09:33]] For 222 Supported. Coroner of the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, this law consists of only one paragraph. The bottom line is this. That if a person goes to a transaction and buys real estate at the same time and builds on it and the seller is the same person, then 2 separate applications and 2 separate packages of documents should not be submitted for registration. This can be done by one statement. It's a good, right idea, but unfortunately, the bill doesn't complete it. Therefore, it can only be accepted on first reading, and until the second reading it will have to be finalized, because you understand that individual documents are absolutely necessary for the earth and very other documents are needed for construction. It will be further developed by the second reading. The Committee therefore recommends that you adopt it on first reading. Only on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u125	Yes, thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? None. So you get the idea, dear fellows. In fact, there is one sentence, but the committee is proposing, and the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, to accept only as a basis for further development and resolution of this problem. I then put to the vote the proposal to adopt a draft law amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. [[on property rights]] [[Bill registration number 10577]] Please vote. [[15:11:34]] For 252 The Law was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, you and I have included in the agenda a bill number 10632. The committee was ready to report it, and they considered it. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to consider Bill 10632, the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to minimize the risks of natural persons in the financial market and to increase the reliability of financial institutions. Please support the proposal to consider the bill today. [[15:12:29]] For 249 Offer supported. Then I propose to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[15:12:53]] For 227 Supported. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to minimize the risks of natural persons in the financial market and increase the reliability of financial institutions. I'd like to invite you to the word of Prasololov, please. From the committee to prepare Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u126	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the essence of the bill is to regulate the disclosure of information about the real financial situation of institutions that attract citizens' money. The project proposes to improve the use of credit ratings to assess the reliability of financial institutions. The bill aims to improve the investment climate in Ukraine, increase public confidence in financial instruments, revive investment processes and minimize risks in financial markets. The Chief Research and Expert Office concluded that the bill could be adopted as a basis. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u127	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, the committee considered the bill submitted by the Prussian National MP and recommended that it be accepted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u129	Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? None. Then I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on minimising the risks of natural persons in the financial market and increasing the reliability of financial institutions. [[Registration number 10632]] Please vote. [[15:15:16]] For 255 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Yes, dear colleagues, not all, we still have work to do. Dear colleagues, yesterday you and I included in the agenda quite such urgent bills related to amendments to the National Budget Act of Ukraine. Since you and I are practically done with you, now the profile committee will be offering proposals from a minute to a minute, so we'll look at them. So I would like to consider some more of these bills today. I'm going to read them and we're going to vote today to review the bill by number 10677, 10656, 10680, 10683, 10682 and 10639. Most of these bills are the bills we included in the agenda yesterday. And now we're waiting for the conclusions of the profile committee. And to this list, Bill number 10417. Who, in order to consider these bills today and to conclude our meeting, please support us. [[15:17:09]] For 254 Thank you. We need to include in the agenda of the day's session a bill numbering 10677, a draft law amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft of the Zabarsky People's Deputy. [[on the election, appointment and recall of officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] Please, there are no speakers? Please support the proposal to include this bill in the agenda of the day session. [[15:17:57]] For 258. And the request when the profile committee is ready, then we'll go back to it if the profile committee is ready. Dear colleagues, Bill 10656 has been included in the agenda, so we are now considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the operation of payment systems and the development of non-cash accounts]] [[Bill registration number 10656]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[15:18:51]] For 226 Offer supported. Reports Deputy Head of the National Bank Prokhorenko Valeri Petrovich. Prepare the Piglet Igor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian Act on Payment Systems and Transfer of Money in Ukraine was passed more than 10 years ago. During this time, financial and payment markets have changed dramatically: the role of payment systems has been overestimated by international financial institutions and most central banks of the world, new international requirements for payment systems have emerged, and many countries are updating the relevant legislation. This bill is proposed by amending the Law on Payment Systems and Transfers of Funds in Ukraine and a number of other laws, such as the National Bank, the Civil Code, the Code on Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code, to address the following basic issues: the construction of a national payment space that will ensure the financial independence of the State and reduce the risk of settlement using payment cards. The basis of the national payment space is the creation of a national clearing house, an institution that will handle payments cards in the middle of countries and resident banks. The next question is to regulate the circulation of electronic money. The legislative definition of "electronic money" and "e-money regulation" will allow market participants to work in the legal field defined by this law. The National Bank is also responsible for overseeing payment systems and accounting systems. And the main question is the protection of the rights of users of payment cards. The bill provides for standards for the protection of the rights of card users, such as a clear order for the bank to inform the client of transactions, client and bank responsibility in the event of a joint situation. The bill is a complex project that takes into account the world’s best cash-free calculation experience. Please adopt the law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Prasolov Igor Mikolajovich. Hometic is the head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, discussed at his meeting a project submitted by the National Bank on payment systems in Ukraine. We believe that this initiative is timely enough and necessary. Today, the National Bank has sufficient authority and ability to control the cashless movement of funds, but what is involved in payment cards and remittances is now dominated by foreign companies that are doing so through other nations. This is about the possibility of setting up a National Banking National Clearing House, which will also involve payment system participants, commercial banks and under the direction of, say, the National Bank will introduce national payment card systems. The committee therefore supports the adoption on the basis of the bill and the proposal to set up a working group with the National Bank for a second reading to resolve those issues that have not yet been agreed upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u133	Yes, thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? You don't? Then I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the operation of payment systems and the development of non-cash accounts]] [[Registration number 10656]] Please vote. [[15:23:20]] For 252 A decision has been made. Dear colleagues, the Rules Committee reported that they had considered and were ready to consider Bill 10677. I propose to review the draft Act amending the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine under a reduced procedure. [[on the election, appointment and recall of officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 10677]] Please be supportive. [[15:24:04]] For 221 Offer supported. Ukrainian National Deputy Zabarsky Vladislav Valeriyovich reports. Prepare for the head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Mr. Volodymyr Wolodymyrovich. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, you're after the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u134	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill was introduced on June 27 of this year. The project proposes to amend part 5 and article 75, part 4, of article 77 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. According to these articles, voting on the decision to elect the Supreme Council Head and withdraw him from office is secret, is carried out by means of ballot papers and is considered to have occurred if at least two thirds of Ukraine’s national deputies received secret ballots from their actual number. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect and recall the Supreme Council is formulated by the relevant Supreme Council decrees. The draft law provides for a change in the order of election and withdrawal from the post of Head of the Supreme Council, establishing that the decision is taken by an open-ended name vote by a majority of the Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The need to make the proposed amendments to the Rules is due to the fact that the provisions of article 75, part four, of article 77 of the Rules do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine and need to be implemented in accordance with constitutional standards. I would like to remind you that according to article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established by the Constitution and the Law on the Rules. Part two of article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine establishes that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is taken solely in its plenary sessions by voting. Decisions, in accordance with article 91 of the Constitution, are adopted in accordance with regulations and laws and are made by a majority of the Constitution, except in cases established by the Constitution. At this time, the rules mentioned in the Rules do not meet the rules of the Constitution, so there is a proposal to change them in such a way as to achieve this responsibility. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u135	Thank you. The head of the Committee on MP ethics and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Maceinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u136	At its meeting on 4 July this year, the Committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Zabarski Vladislav Valerijovic, number 10677 from 27.06.2012. [[on the election, appointment and recall of officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] The bill provides for amendments to articles 75, 77 and 79 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by modifying the procedure for the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and his withdrawal from office, establishing that the relevant decisions shall be taken by an open-ended vote by the majority of the Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as provided for by the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee adopted a conclusion on the proposed draft Ukrainian Act amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the Election and Withdrawal of Officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include it in the agenda of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with part one of the first and part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u137	Thank you. Are they willing to share in the discussion? None. I would like to vote on the proposal of a professional committee to adopt the Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. [[on the election, appointment and recall of officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 10677]] [[15:28:43]] For 255 The law has been passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. [[on the activities of the Agrarian Fund]] [[Bill registration number 10417]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[15:29:20]] For 216 Offer supported. Reported by National Deputy Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Get ready for the sidekick.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The main purpose of the Ukrainian draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture in Ukraine is the need to improve the activities of the Agrarian Fund as a financial instrument, as well as the ability to make reparations for costs and to make more effective use of public price regulation objects in the process of storing them. The Agrarian Fund sells or buys public price items on the agrarian market, or to a state intervention fund. Subjects of government price regulation are kept exclusively in certified warehouses and have limited storage time. In connection with this bill, it is proposed that Ukraine’s Law should provide for appropriate cases in which the Agrarian Fund can implement and transfer relevant public price regulations. This bill is in agreement with the relevant ministries, which have been passed through an agrarian policy committee, and there is also support for the Science and Experimental Authority. So there is a request to put it to a vote and, if possible, if there are no comments, accept it as a whole. In fact, the Agrarian Fund is compared by its legislative functions to its national reserve. That's logical, because both institutions and other institutions actually carry virtually the same functions, in some cases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u139	Yes, please report to the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations subcommittee, Sidelnik Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting in June, reviewed the draft Act amending the Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine, introduced by the People's Deputy of Homutinnik. The members of the Committee noted that the amendments proposed by the bill would increase the efficiency of the use and storage of public price management facilities by the Agrarian Fund and increase the speed and completeness of the fund and would also help to increase support for domestic producers. Therefore, as a result of the consideration at the agrarian policy committee meeting, land relations are proposed to adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention. Adam Ivanovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u141	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, who would like to share in the discussion? You don't? Then I put to the vote a committee proposal: to adopt as a whole a law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. [[on the activities of the Agrarian Fund]] [[Registration number 10417]] Please vote. [[15:33:22]] For 255 The law is passed. Yes, dear fellows, we are now moving on, a committee of profile prepared for the bill regarding budget changes. These are bills by number 10639, 10680, 10682, 10683 and 10576. But 10576 we need to put it in the order of the day. I propose to include in the agenda and to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on the increase in capital expenditure and technical refurbishment of coal-fired enterprises]] [[Registration number 10576]] Please vote. [[15:34:38]] For 252 Offer supported. Dear colleagues! How do you see that all of these bills, all of these bills -- what is it about the Cabinet of Ministers that the Cabinet of Ministers was offering -- hear one report from the Cabinet of Ministers? These are bills by number 10680, 10683. They're listening. And then we'll hear from the deputies. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, please, 10680.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You have been introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers for a draft law to amend the budget. The substance of the draft law relates to an increase in expenditure for the Attorney-General's Office by 174 million dollars and related to the implementation of the provisions of the Attorney-General's Office, the new Criminal Procedure Code and the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code in part of the creation of the Single Register of Investigations and the enforcement of laws by law enforcement units of law enforcement agencies. These costs will be aimed both at increasing wages and creating appropriate technical security for the operation of this register. The source of these revenues, the balancing of these funds, is part of the income of the business organizations of the unitary enterprises and the associations that are being cut off from the budget. That is, the kind of payment that is being made today. Thank you. 174 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u143	Anatoly Ivanovich, then 10683.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u144	Bill number 10683 was prepared according to the decision of the government and submitted for consideration to the Supreme Council. And the purpose of this bill is to ensure that agricultural projects are implemented, namely for the purpose of purchasing seeds, other agricultural crops and other goods, which are both produced in Ukraine and produced abroad at the expense of the credit line, in accordance with the agreement with China. The general market agreement provides for a total of 24.3 billion dollars. But it's giving the government the right to do the right thing. This amount will be filled after individual, local, so - called, credit agreements are signed during the year. And according to the government's decisions, funding will be provided under both direct state support in Ukraine's agriculture and on the credit back base of our agricultural sector. Thus, the bill is proposed for adoption. The terms of the loan offered by China's Export-Import Bank are good enough for us because the rate is going to be six months' pound plus 4.5, the maturity is up to 15 years. So there's another five years of debt. We think it's an advantageous condition and a request from the Supreme Council to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u145	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u146	I can tell you what I'm supporting for my stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u147	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u148	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The introduction is supported by the Government. Bills registered in the Supreme Council at 10639, 10682 and 10576 are supported. But there's a correction of the amount. The amount should be 1 billion dollars for capital construction and technical refurbishment of coal-based enterprises, yes, and the payment of interest on the comings of overexpenditures of the National Bank over their expenditures. And we also propose that, if all these laws are adopted on the basis of final work, they be merged into a single bill and given appropriate instructions to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the General Legal Office, and Minfin to carry out procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u149	Thank you. Yes, we will now listen to the MP, for two were from the Cabinet of Ministers, three were subject to the legislative initiative of the MP, and then we will allow the committee’s head to speak on all five bills. Please, 10639 - Draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[amending the name of the budget programme and the allocation of the general budget allocations to the Ministry of Justice]] The bill's author is Baranov, please. 10639. Please, Valery Alexiyovich. Prepare Zabarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, we have considered today, but I am acting as the author of this bill. It is designed to provide financial support to the Coordination Centre for legal aid and the provision of its territory. a department formed to comply with the relevant decree of the President of Ukraine. To this end, it is proposed to amend Appendix No.3 of the State Budget Act on the redistribution of general fund expenditure within the total amount of budget allocations provided for by the Ministry of Justice, namely an increase in consumption expenditure by 1 million dollars, including for work of 733,000 and budget programme 36.01. 020 is the steps taken by Ukraine to implement legal reform and to carry out legislative work by appointing it as a new editor for the reduction of development expenditure on this amount under budget programme 36.01. 160. In this context, it is proposed that the budget programme should be appointed in a new edition, namely, “The provision of free legal aid for the formation and functioning of the system. ” The Chief Expert Office and everyone else supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u151	Thank you. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[Registration number 10682]] [[on the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission]] The subject of the legislative initiative, Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich, please. And prepare for the 576th Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u152	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is proposed for your consideration. [[on the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission]] [[Registration number 10682 from July 2, 2012]] This bill is designed to address the financial security of the Central Electoral Commission's activities in the provision of voting facilities for Ukrainian national deputies through video surveillance systems, which will result in ensuring the publicity and openness of the electoral process during the election of Ukraine's national deputies. To this end, the bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian National Budget 2012 Act, as part of the election of the Central Electoral Commission under a separate budget programme, "Creating and implementing video surveillance systems at ordinary polling stations on a permanent basis during the election of Ukraine's national deputies in 2012" amounts to 993.6 million dollars. The allocation of additional resources to the Central Electoral Commission in the amount indicated is expected to be taxed on the added value of imported goods in Ukraine – 350 million dollars and import duties – 643,6 million dollars. I believe that the adoption of this bill and further implementation will ensure the holding of democratic, transparent and equal elections in Ukraine in the autumn of 2012, as effective monitoring of the electoral process by the public will be introduced. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u153	Thank you. And Bill No. 10576 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on the increase in capital expenditure and technical refurbishment of coal-fired enterprises]] The author is Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! You are invited to consider Bill 10576, which was considered at the Budget Committee meeting, and it is recommended that it be adopted in the first reading on the basis and in general, taking into account the following suggestions. In the bill, add to the increase in capital expenditure and the technical refurbishment of coal-based enterprises, the costing and repayment of loans in the fine-tuning of the Cabinet of Ministers with regard to the identification of sources and within 1 billion dollars. The bill was supported and proposed to be accepted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u155	Thank you. Thus, honourable colleagues, we have heard reports on the bills 10680, 10683, 10639, 10639, 10682 and 10576. I now give the floor to a report to the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baran Valerija Alexiyovich. Please take the seats of the committee on all five drafts. We don't limit you in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u156	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee has reviewed all five bills today and has taken the following decisions. According to Bill 10680, the Committee proposed that another paragraph should be added, which was the case with the Attorney-General's Office. "To increase the expenditure of the General Fund for the National Security and Defence Council, under code 6501010, to provide information and analysis on coordination activities in the field of national security and defence, by 2.5 million dollars, including $1.9 million for work." Another committee supported the bill. Bill 10683 of the Committee supported and made its decision on the subject. Bill 10639, which deals with free assistance to citizens through Minnesota, is also supported by our committee. Draft Law 10682, which deals with the organisation of the transparency of the electoral process and the additional financing of the Central Electoral Commission, is supported by the committee. And the bill, which was drafted by Lukyanov, was supported in the amount of 1 billion dollars, with the refinements Lukyanov said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-04-m0.u157	Thank you. If they're willing to speak. Is it? None. Then, dear fellows, we will vote on each bill separately. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on expenditure to ensure the activities of the Attorney-General's Office]] [[Registration number 10680]] Please vote. [[15:48:21]] For 255 The law is passed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on State borrowings]] [[Registration number 10683]] Please vote. [[15:48:57]] For 260 Thank you. The law is passed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[amending the name of the budget programme and the allocation of the general budget allocations to the Ministry of Justice]] [[Registration number 10639]] Please vote. [[15:49:36]] For 261 Thank you. The law is passed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission]] [[Registration number 10682]] Please vote. [[15:50:09]] For 259. The law is passed. And there's a proposal for a vote: to adopt the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 with the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on the increase in capital expenditure and technical refurbishment of coal-fired enterprises]] [[Registration number 10576]] I'd like to make a statement. [[15:50:54]] For 236 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal, let's give a mandate to the committee of profile, the Committee on Budget Affairs, to unify all these bills into one to draft one Act amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. All five laws unite and, together with the Chief Legal Authority, enforce appropriate technical and legal regulations. Let's vote on this proposal. I ask you to vote on this proposal, on the unification of all laws in one and the commission of the General Legal Office. Please vote. [[15:51:51]] For 262 Copy that. Dear colleagues, the questions that we have raised for consideration today, have been resolved with you. Therefore, I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The request to work on committees so that we can consider some of the bills in the second reading tomorrow. Opening of the session tomorrow, 10 o'clock.
