ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, we need to register in the session hall with cards. Turn on the "Race" system. [[12:00:35]] With the help of an electronic system, 394 national deputies were registered in the hall. Please, Your Honor, put your cards in the sockets, to the right places where your cards should be, and we'll re-register now. Please register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[12:01:20]] 431 national deputies registered in the sessional lagoon. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine, on the day of the opening of the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the seventh vocation of the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the sixth vocation ceases to be what I declare. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I invite the oldest elected national deputy of Ukraine, Yuhim Leonidovich Zviagilski, to the rostrum and to open the first plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. Yuhim Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u2	The first plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, elected on October 28, 2012, is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u3	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with established tradition, I would like to welcome the birthday of the national deputy of Ukraine, Mikhail Volodymyrovich Opanaszczenka, and to wish him health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you that you have taken an oath, have taken office and have registered for the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the registration tables of 444 national deputies. With the exception of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Marmazov Eugène Vasilovich, who is absent for important objective reasons, is sick. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must form a temporary presidency of the first session. What? Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to give me a chance. One minute, give me a chance. One minute, complete your duties as head of the Preparatory. One minute, heads of the preparatory group. Now there's going to be a faction formation issue. Please take care of your deputies who have been nominated. I did a technical job. Please. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, once again, please consider your teams. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must form a temporary presidency of the first session. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 18 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, The temporary presidency of the first session consists of six national deputies. It consists of the Head of the Preparatory Deputy Group and one representative from each political party, among which the electoral lists are allocated to the parliamentary mandates. Political parties, respected colleagues, have identified their representatives as part of the Temporary Presidium of the session, as duly reported by the Preparatory MP. Let me inform you of the personal composition of the Temporary Presidium of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A party of regions is represented by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. The political party of the All-Ukrainian union "The Fatherland" is represented by Andrija Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin. Vitaly Anatolyyovich Kovalczuk represents Vitaly Anatolyovich Kovalczuk. The political party of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is represented by Ruslan Volodymyrovich Kosulinski. And the Communist Party of Ukraine is represented by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Dear national deputies, let us invite members of the Temporary, I stress, to take up jobs and to take up their challenging responsibilities. Please. Dear colleagues, please to the Presidency. Dear colleagues, allow me to continue the meetings. The list of issues that we should consider at the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh occasion and their sequence is defined by article 16 of the Supreme Council Rules. Dear colleagues, in accordance with articles 16 and 57 of the Rules at the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we need to form MP factions and groups. One minute, MP prep, well, please, I'll announce it later. Dear colleagues, please, I'm going to ask you a question, then in a minute, well, give me a chance, please. Dear colleagues, I, well, listen! Dear colleagues, listen to what I'm saying. Now I'm going to raise the question, then from each faction per minute to express our position, and then we're going to form factions. We have, unfortunately, to say the least, honourable colleagues, until the political factions are formed, it is not clear who will speak, so calm down. One minute, let me get this out. Well, we made a deal, please! Dear colleagues, I'm going to put the question to the end before we announce the break, every political party represented in the Supreme Council will have the opportunity to express its point of view within one minute. It's a deal. Dear colleagues, therefore, in line with articles 16 and 57 of the Rules at the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is necessary to form parliamentary factions if there are groups and groups. Well, one minute. Preparatory group, one minute, listen to the end, I heard you, well, I heard you, you're about to perform. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, give me a second! A preparatory parliamentary group suggests that one hour be taken to form factions. At the meeting of the Preparatory Group, we also concluded that we would need to create a Counting Commission. The proposal is: one representative of 20 members of a political faction; also from non-fractional ones, if they are 20, two deputies, if they are 15 or 10, but not less than one representative than non-fractional. Hence, the faction, depending on its size, also made proposals to the Counting Commission, one in twenty. And at the evening session, you can then, by announcing the creation of political factions, their composition, if necessary, read out the names of the MPs who are part of a faction, to resolve the organizational issue of the establishment of the Count Commission. Is there no objection to that? Now, please. Wait a minute! From every political force, we're going to go to the right, and that's what I'm going to call a party. "Stack," is there a need to knock something out? None. Is there a need? Who's it gonna be? Irina Heratchenko, please microphone. Who, Vitaly Cliché? Please. Yes, please, we can talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I think today we should not start with the violation of the Constitution and all the journalists present, and all the deputies were present in the fact that the two deputies did not take part in the meetings, in taking an oath. And we demand a correct number of deputies who have taken an oath. But someone there signed, incomprehensiblely, where this oath does not mean that they have entered into their duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u5	Thank you. Is there anyone who'll be speaking from Fatherland? Who? Arsenius Yatsenuk, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u6	In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine and in accordance with the Law of Ukraine on Rules of Procedure, namely, articles 14 of the relevant law, two persons, Andrew Tabalov and Alexander Tabalov, are non-national deputies of Ukraine because they have not taken an oath in accordance with the order provided for in the Constitution and the law. They have no right to work in Parliament. The other one. In accordance with article 58 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there cannot be a faction like the Communist Party of Ukraine. Just as article 58 clearly defines the order in which fractions are formed. In view of this, dear Peter Mikolaiovich, you take your place.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, Oleg Mahnitzki, please, from Liberty. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u8	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, it is very bad to start work, and more so today is a solemn day of breaking the law. I absolutely support Arsenius Yatsenuk and our faction supports that two MPs who have not personally sworn can't be national deputies. Besides, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are already in breach of the procedure for the Counting Commission. Because under article 16, parliamentary factions are first formed, followed by a report by the Head of the Supreme Council, and section 16, paragraph 4, of the first article, is the election of the Counting Commission. We also know that you intend to announce the formation of the Communist Party faction. It is also a gross violation of the law. Because article 58 provides for unconditional prerequisites for the formation of a fraction. This is the MPs. The faction may be made up of MPs in a multi-mandatory district, as well as deputies elected in the majority district by the respective political power. The law says "one and the other," doesn't say "one or the other."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u9	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions, who will be speaking? [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not a faction, it's a political party. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to follow the Rules. Mikhailo Chechetov, please. We did. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u10	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The electors chose us to do constructive, creative legislative work. We must at least waste our time on organizational matters. Yes, each faction has its own problems, but if there are problems in the Fatherland faction, that's your problem. You'll find out who delegated the people behind these two people. Look at the factions, but that's your faction problems, that's not the issue with the Supreme Council. We therefore call for constructive work and, during a minimum period of time, for the organization to finish and for the legislative work to begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u11	From the faction. I'm sorry, who will it be from the Communist Party of Ukraine? Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I understand and realize the shaking voices of the right-hand side of the room when they have their own problems from the very first minute of the new convocation. This one, indeed, your own problems, all the more, if you believe the media, each of you solemnly swore that he guaranteed that there would be no "cushion" in his factions. So this is your problem. And the national deputies who signed the oath made such an oath. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Constitution and the Rules. Secondly, I am well aware, and I understand the former colleagues in Lviv, that they are "truly lying down" so that there are no communists. But your expectations are in vain: they were, they are, they will be. [[Applause]] Most likely, you won't be here. And let's say 2.6 million voters have said theirs. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please. And from the party, and from the subgroups of non-factions, Oleg Lazko and the discussion is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] A radical party, one MP, so calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainian citizens, the problem of carcasses is not a political problem that has caused these carcasses, and this is the problem of the country, the problem of irresponsibility and the problem of change of choice, because people have voted in favour of one party, as a result of bribery, as a result of blackmail, the pressure in parliament is generated by another majority than the one expected by Ukrainian citizens. The Constitution clearly stipulates that a national MP is to take an oath at a meeting of the Supreme Council. Mr. Tabalov, it doesn't matter what political power they went through, but they betrayed that political power, they betrayed the voters who voted for them, and most importantly, they didn't make an oath in this hall. They, like rats, outside the hall, signed some kind of toilet paper out there today called an oath. Do not compare us with these traitors. We don't want to be in the same room with them. So minus the two deputies that you've announced, everyone else has the opportunity to work. Why the Party of Regions confessed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m1.u15	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I suggest you do this. During the break of the apparatus, to prepare information about all the documents, such as the way in which the oath was signed, put their signatures on these national MPs that you have come up with. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. It's about what you've come up with. I'm asking you to listen. We can't help each other by yelling. And the chairman of the evening session will inform you about this. As for the reckoning commission, your colleagues, it's a suggestion that if you now form or formalize questions about the creation of a political faction, you will know that you have 80 people or 100 people, as many as you can delegate your representatives and submit them, then the General Supreme Council will vote, there will be a meeting of the Counting Commission, which will elect the Head, the Deputy and the Secretary, in order that, if necessary, the Counting Commission, including those issues that call you into question, will issue its verdict. So I think the proposals are acceptable. Thus, honourable colleagues, in order to form the issue of political factions, and if there are groups, groups or groups, take time. Therefore, it is now proposed that a two - hour recess be announced, as suggested by the preparatory parliamentary group, and that the morning meeting of the Supreme Council be closed. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 4 p.m. So, once again, I'm announcing a proposal: now it's a break for the formation of political factions and for the appointment of representatives to the Counting Commission. And at the same time, I'm informing you, Your Honor, that from the next meeting, Alexander's greatest member of the faction will begin to vote. to preside over, I'm sorry, the largest of the factions of Efraem, Alexander Sergiyovich. A break is being announced. And I announce the closing of the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At 16 o'clock we'll continue in plenary mode. Thank you.
