ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:24]] The 340 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies, our colleagues Bondarenko Volodymira Dmitrović, who is 60 years old, please welcome him personally; Kovalova Yulia Viktorovna, also welcome her; the Holy of Olives, please welcome to your birthday. And, dear colleagues, yesterday was also our colleague's birthday, so let's welcome Oleg Lalashka, who has reached the age of 40, and we wish him health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 20 November. Thirty-eight issues of the agenda were discussed, 13 laws and two decrees were adopted, 13 bills were adopted on the basis of which one bill was returned to the committee for further consideration, 5 bills and one draft decree were rejected. As a result of the consideration of the President of Ukraine's proposals, two laws were passed in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have a presentation on Tuesday by the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with statements and, reports and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The next will be Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we are all on the eve of the sixth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Within a week, the newly elected Parliamentary Assembly is scheduled to begin its work. The five past years have been filled with heated debates and political opposition, dreams and disappointments, victories, and defeats. Some things have been done, many things have not. It's just like normal life. But there is only one thing that can be said for many, or perhaps most of us, these years have become an important part of the biography, as well as an unforgivable test of fate. For five years we were all colleagues. Someone treated someone else as a friend, someone as a friend, someone as a fierce opponent. History is the only unbiased arbitrator and history itself will eventually put everything on the shelves and determine its place for everyone. At the same time, I would like to express the opinion of my friends and associates that no matter how controversial and complex these five years may be, there has been more good than bad. And whoever is not saying anything in the heat of political controversy, but qualitatively the new Criminal Procedure Code, the Law on Lawyers, the Law on Anti-Trafficking, the Law on Access to Public Information, the Law on Public Associations, the Law on the Development of Renewable Sources of Energy, the complete set of legislation for the introduction of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens, a whole series of other legislative acts are gains, not failures. And the realization of their benefits, and most of all their practical benefits, will certainly be marked. We want to thank all our colleagues for their years of working together. Thank you very much to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all its fellow workers for their help and kindness. And we will be forever remembered by John Alexandrovich Gerasimov, Michael Dmitrovitch Siroto, Valery Alexanderovich Bukayev, John Vasilovich Spodarenko, Mikola Pavlovich Lisin, Vladimir Ivanovich Polochalo, Igor Borisovich Golovchenka, Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenka, Aleksandra Volodymyrovich Savčuk – our fellow national deputies of the sixth vocation who left life. Dear colleagues, during their more than a thousand appearances in this room over the past five years, seem to have never been used in poetic lines. Allow me to make an exception today and to use the words of the modern classic Boris Illich of Olives to turn to enemies and guilty. "If I want to blame that soul, Put someone down. But in vain, For the moment he was born into the world, I'm already in charge of it." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u3	Arsenius Yatsenuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u4	We have never seen the former Prime Minister Azarov on this rostrum. I understand that if he is seen again by the Prime Minister, it will be very difficult for him to talk about his predecessors, because he will hardly talk about himself. But on behalf of the opposition, I'm going to try to tell you about the economic gains of this government that President Yanukovic resigned yesterday. Well, there's good news, it's that Janukovic started an opposition program and retired his government. The bad news is that he didn't write his own resignation application, and that would be the right and courageous step. With regard to the success of this government, I would like to be guided solely by numbers. First of all, unemployment. 1.8 million Ukrainians are unemployed today. The other one. One in five young Ukrainians is also unemployed. Third. The United Nations estimates that 36 million Ukrainian citizens live outside the poverty line. Four. This government has increased the external direct government guaranteed debt to almost 500 billion dollars. This figure is twice as high as the time that Azarov and Yanukovic came to power. Third. The cost of maintaining this power has increased to 25 billion dollars over the past 2.5 years. Four. Every day President Yanukovich is held for 4 million dollars for taxpayers. Fifth. Over the past two years, this government and this president have closed 300 hospitals and 700 schools. And the sixth. Ukraine's finally the first in ratings. In corruption ratings, in unemployment ratings and in hopelessness ratings. And against this background, the government was in a hurry yesterday to introduce a draft Ukrainian law on the state budget of Ukraine. Clearly, regionals do not read laws. They don't struggle with such complex things as reading the Ukrainian Constitution and the Ukrainian Law "On Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". According to part three of article 155 of this law, a suspended government does not have the right to impose the State Budget Act on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This must be the responsibility of the new government and the new parliament. But we understand why this is happening. Today in Parliament, which is nothing more than a place to buy and sell cards, it's much easier to raise 226 votes than in the future parliament, especially in the case of when we're in the past? the personal vote of each national MP. I would like to take a few separate figures that I have just seen in the Ukrainian National Budget Act. First. We are, of course, demanding a report from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the State Budget in 2012. We demand that Azarov make it clear why Ukraine lost $12 billion in gold reserves, why Ukraine is most affected by the financial and economic crisis, why does the social standards in Ukraine fail to meet those programme promises promised by President Janukovic? The other one. Azarov must tell us how this government has been operating over the last two years without a government action programme. Third. We never quoted the regionals, but here I would like to quote one of the shareholders of the Party of Regions, is such a famous shareholder of the Party of Regions and businessman Dmitri Firtash, who.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u5	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u6	Andrew, are you giving me your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u7	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u8	So Dmitri Firtas stated that 40 billion VAT were not compensated and 15 billion overpaid the income tax -- that's what the regionals claim. I looked into the draft of the Law on the State Budget myself. All social articles in this law stop. And the minimum level of living and the wage, you know how much does it grow? Today it consists of, i.e. in this State Budget Act, it's actually going to go up 13 dollars. We are against the adoption of this budget and we demand that this issue be considered in full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Next up will be Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u10	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Political manipulations surrounding the investment project on construction in Ukraine, LNG-Terminal, i.e. the liquefied natural gas terminal, have reaffirmed once again that the Ostap Bender case lives and thrives. What happened on 24 November when, in the presence of the Prime Minister, the Head of State, I stress that the State Investment Agency is signing a billion-dollar contract with a charlatan. And then, when the affair goes out, it's childish about what's supposed to be technical, about Moscow's hand. Such actions by the orange-majdan political pinches have once again undermined the country's international authority. The company requires a detailed report from the Government on this fact. We also demand that criminal and deliberate actions by the Head of the Nationality and those responsible for the verification of the powers of foreign partners be brought to justice. The relevant competent authorities, including the Procurator's Office and the BSS, have carried out a comprehensive audit of the work of the entire agency, of all signed treaties, and not just of the last affair. Respectable voters! If the LNG-Terminal affair once again highlighted the corrupt character of the oligarchic authorities, the draft State budget for the following year fully confirmed our message that the attraction of electoral generosity demonstrated by the Government and candidates from the bourgeois parties had been closed together with the closure of the polling stations. By rejecting the proposed Compartia anti-crisis programme, the authorities, at the same time, were unable to address the socio-economic problems in the country. Production continues to decline. The bracelet is depreciated. Gold reserves are hidden in their eyes. Capitals go abroad. Pensions and salaries are delayed or not paid at all. Prices and tariffs are rising, and the execution is empty. Instead of the milky rivers with acid banks, the people of Ukraine are now being asked to tighten the IMF prescription belt. The election's over! And we can no longer promise what was said before the elections. The Company states that our faction will not vote in favour of a budget that effectively eliminates all social benefits for the poor, i.e. vote in favour of the social deficit budget. We are convinced that the social and economic development programme for 2013 should be adopted before the consideration of the draft budget for the following year, based on our domestic resources rather than on the debt appeal of the country and people to international financial speculators. Given the depth of the crisis, this programme should be radical. First, all strategic enterprises must be restored to public property, the basis of the Ukrainian economy. Secondly, to provide the domestic economy with the necessary energy resources and commodity markets. The faction insists on the immediate accession of Ukraine to the Customs Union and the Eurasian Union. Next. There is a need to tighten control over the use of mineral resources and remove all oligarchs from gas and oil wells of mines and mines, regardless of which flags, orange or white pigeons they come to the Parliament of Ukraine. We need to introduce a monopolies on vodka and tobacco, and ensure that prices and tariffs are monitored by the State. It is legal to prohibit trade in agricultural land. Communists, as promised by the voters, have already drafted and introduced all necessary bills to Parliament, thus laying a constructive foundation for the work of the new Supreme Council for the benefit of most people and various social groups. I call on my fellow MPs to reject politics and join our anti-crisis programme, a programme aimed at the future and the resurgence of Ukraine's economically developed and socially powerful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u11	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Bondarenko or someone from the faction will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens! Ukraine as an independent state, a society, an authority in complex and responsible socio-economic, socio-political conditions is being tested for the ability to work together to protect national interests, to resist systemic external and internal risks. But life goes on. And to confirm our great opportunities, let us sincerely welcome the great victories of our lovely girls: Anna Ušenina, who became the champion of the world in chess, the charming Nastya Petrik, who won the Europracion. [[City of Kharkiv]] [[village Nerubayské Odeské oblast]] And this is a visual confirmation of the talent and efficiency of Ukrainian people, and we need to take an example of them. But there are still very serious risks. This is primarily the low level of competitiveness and the high dependence of the Ukrainian economy on external conditions. In particular, it is very important to understand that, in the context of the decline in the pace of the development of the global European economy, the deterioration in demand, the price of Ukrainian exports, the effects of destructive natural gas contracts, the problems of internal production and the threat of political instability in society, there cannot be for all of us any other important task, such as the tightening of terms on the basis of positive inheritance, ensuring the development and viability of our society, creating conditions for the effective work of the higher legislative body in Ukraine. As a result, it is essential to adopt the 2013 State budget as the basis for the projected investment and development conditions, the concentration of resources in the priority directions, the possibility of raising social standards in a timely manner as of 1 January 2013. Despite the difficult conditions, thanks to the work of the entire Ukrainian people, Ukraine ends 2012 with positive increases in gross domestic product. But we all have, together, honourable national MPs, a shared responsibility that every percentage of economic growth will have an impact on the increasing quality of life of Ukrainian citizens, people's confidence in the future. And that is the essence and basis of the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine. We need to strengthen the energy self-sufficiency and security of our nation, the development of competitive production, the implementation of import substitution programmes, the localization of production, the strengthening of innovation. We are united, including the shared tasks of Ukraine’s irreversible integration into European economic and political space. Ladies and gentlemen, time demands responsibility and concentration. Only if we move to an empty front can we achieve success, a competitive development, a high quality of life for citizens, and a strengthening of democratic standards. That's what we're calling you to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u13	Andrew Kozemyakin. It's the "BUT" faction. It's Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u14	Good afternoon! In summing up the work of the Sixth Council, it has to be noted that it has started its work as a democratic and truly representative body of the legislative authority in our state. After the election of Parliament in 2007, a democratic coalition was formed, which worked solely for the benefit of the state and the citizens. The socio-economic rise, development and strengthening of Ukraine. It was not easy to make decisions then, but they were balanced and effective. Because every law was discussed openly, often with harsh discussions, but with the thoughts of the entire MPs. As a result, Ukraine survived the world crisis in 2008-2009. All conditions and real opportunities were created for the opposition then. Today, however, the Supreme Council ends its work in vain. One mention of the Ukrainian Parliament in ordinary citizens is only exasperating. Since the advent of the power of Viktor Yanukovich, parliamentaryism in Ukraine has virtually been destroyed. But unfortunately, his predecessor, President Yushchenko, made an effort to do so. By applying political corruption, blackmail, intimidation, and intimidation, the authorities formed in the Supreme Council a treacherous majority, who thoughtlessly, at hand, made anticonstitutional and antinational decisions. Unfortunately, this Supreme Council will go down in history with decisions on treason of national interest, a constitutional coup d'état, concentrating all power in the hands of the President, and adopting the Language Act, which has divided Ukrainian society. [[Kharkiv Agreements]] The clearest evidence of this is that this Supreme Council has turned exclusively into a service tool of power has been that Parliament has itself refrained from resisting large-scale political and economic repressions in Ukraine. In no way did the legislative body respond to the illegal imprisonment of the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, as well as other opponents, Yuri Lucenka, and others who were thrown into jail because of fabricated criminal cases. Although the entire democratic world has acknowledged, the imprisonment of opposition leaders has been politically motivated. The final events are the elections. Most of them hid their heads in the sand when they were thrown into a garbage bin by hundreds of thousands of voters when Berkut stormed the precincts when, instead of the obvious winners of the opposition, the authorities stretched out their ominous candidates. But the Ukrainian people made their choice, regardless of mass forgeries, administrative resources, and total bribery, the Ukrainians supported the opposition forces most of the votes. So we have a very difficult and stressful parliamentary work ahead of us. We're not going to step away from our election programs that we went to people with. And finally. I want to do my part and thank all my colleagues sincerely for the faction that I had the privilege of taking the lead. Thank you! We made it! We are and will be the only team, because in unity our strength is. Only together will we build a democratic, prosperous and just Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u15	Soroczynska Kirilenko, MP for the Future, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The deputy faction of Reforms for the Future considers it necessary to re-emphasize the inadmissibility of a 15 per cent assembly to compulsory state pension insurance when selling foreign currency for cash. It would seem that after the adoption of a bill amending some Ukrainian laws on foreign exchange transactions, the mountain has taken a sober, rational approach to this issue. It was hoped that the bill was put in a long drawer and would be forgotten forever, such as a terrible dream or a failed joke. Because the novelty proposed in this bill for the introduction of a 15 per cent pension assembly for the sale of currency is not up to any criticism, either in terms of economics or in terms of law or morals. But the authors of this idea are proposing a new version of it, which provides for a 10% pension rate. They must have been obsessed with marketing ideas of pre - New Year's discounts. The need for the adoption of this law is motivated by the supposed need to combat currency speculators. At the same time, a particular concern at the National Bank of Ukraine is the cash currency in the hands of the population, at least $50 billion in cash. The representatives of Nutzbank believe that the currency feeds the shadow economy and thus poses a threat to the economic security of the state. According to this logic, in order to remove this threat, it is necessary to force the owners of the currency to sell it with a 10 percent tax. At the same time, the average citizens try to calm down by not touching their tax. But is that true if we consider the fact that people who have failed in the national banking system prefer to make their savings in solid currency and keep them at home? Moreover, the question arises: Why should the lack of professionalism of banking management, legal nihilism, and poor quality of government be paid by people, not by those who undermine trust in the banking system, the system of law, the institutions of government and the state as such. The deputy faction of Reforms for the Future emphasizes that the representatives of Nazbank would have, first of all, stopped the outflow of capital to offshore rather than go into the pockets of the citizens. But according to various estimates over the past two years, the banks of Ukraine have converted 53 billion dollars into offshore zones, an amount that is actually equal to the 2012 budget of Ukraine. It's a colossal investment in the economy of other states, not Ukraine. So maybe this is where we need to see the threat to the economic security of our nation. We stand firm against any haste in adopting this bill. In the end, this will lead to a weakening of our economy in the world's markets and an increase in the negative balance of the state. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" suggests that this bill be tabled only after public discussion and appropriate consultations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the factions are over. We need to take a decision on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on urban regulation. These proposals have been processed, and they have been given to you. Both the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority are proposing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support proposals for the elimination of disagreements in the text of the law in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:30:37]] For 216 The decision is not taken. In accordance with article 131 of the Rules, the law will be signed on that day with all disagreements and inconsistencies directed at the signature of the President of Ukraine. It is announced for consideration: the submission of the draft State Budget Act for Ukraine for 2013. The following rules are proposed: a report from the Ministry of Finance – up to 20 minutes. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Finance, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. The answer to the question to the reporter is up to 10 minutes. A report by the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, he's asking for it in three minutes. Presentations by representatives of MPs, committees, national deputies — 60 minutes. And making a procedural decision is two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u18	There's no such thing. There is no such thing in the budget. Look, please. Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Now, one minute. Sass, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u19	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues yesterday, the President of Ukraine resigned Prime Minister Azarov. According to part three of article 15, the acceptance of resignation by the Prime Minister is the result of the resignation of the government. Vladimir Mikhailovich, and now I wanted to draw your attention to the requirements of part three of Rule 155. In the event of the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council of the draft State Budget Act for the following year or following the rejection by the Supreme Council of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the following year, the period of consideration by the Supreme Council of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine shall be suspended and renewed after the submission to the Supreme Council of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the following year by the newly formed Cabinet of the Minister." Vladimir Mikhailovich, stop this blasphemy!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I had a consultation here, talked to the government, read this article. Thank you for reminding me. I understand her perfectly. But the position of the Cabinet of Ministers is that they've put the state budget's draft into the government's resignation. Please! Please! Please! I had a conversation with the lawyers about this. Therefore, there is no explicit treatment on this subject. So please report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The 2013 budget was being budgeted in conditions where the world economy's growth in the current year is unstable and the outlook for the next year's global economy is deteriorating. This is provided by factors that slow down the rate of increase in steel prices. World market prices dropped by 14.6 percent in October 2011 compared to October 2011. The debt problems of individual EU countries have also prevented global financial markets from recovering. In October, the International Monetary Fund reviewed the decline in the outlook for the global economy: from 3.5 percent to 3.3 percent in 2012; and for 2013 from 3.9 percent to 3.6; and for 2013 the growth of the Eurosona economy in general from negative 0.3 in 2012 to negative 0.4, and the increase in 2013 declined from 0.7 percent to 0.2 percent. Under these conditions, developed countries in Europe are taking tough measures to reduce the economic security of budget deficits. For example, in some countries taxes are rising or new taxes are introduced. Finland is increasing its value added tax from 23 per cent to 24 per cent, Spain from 18 per cent to 21 per cent. Citizens’ income in France is rising to 75 percent of those who have more than one million euros a year. Spain raises to 10 percent of the property tax and introduces a new lottery tax. Tax burdens are also increasing in Portugal and Finland. In individual countries governments are reducing fiscal deficits by reducing budget expenditure and including social orientation. In Greece, for example, wages have been cut from 3 to 25 percent, Spain’s third year in a row of frozen salaries for civil servants, Cyprus’s wages have been reduced, the government sector’s salary index has been cancelled, 13 salaries and 13 pensions have been cancelled. In Latvia, the reduction in wages in the budget area is up to 40 percent. A decision has also been taken in Italy to refuse an annual pension index of inflation. Social assistance and payments in Spain, Greece, Britain, and the Czech Republic are also being reduced. Health expenses in Italy, Greece, and Portugal are being reduced in general. Education spending in Spain and Portugal is being cut short. Why am I bringing this up? I want to show that, in the wake of the global crisis in Ukraine, we have endured and sustained the possibility of not reducing all social and cultural expenditure and even making a small increase in the 2013 budget. I would like to present facts about the government's work in 2012 on a consistent policy of economic reform. Yes, Ukraine has improved its position by 15 points in the 2012 Business Rating and has joined the list of top 20 business reformers in the world. Ukraine has reached 20 countries with the greatest progress since 2005 in simplifying business conditions. The government's policy of deregulation, such as simplification of procedures, start-up of business, has significantly improved Ukraine's position by sub-induction of 62 jobs. The process of registering ownership rights, including land, has improved Ukraine's position by 17 positions. Tax reform has gradually reduced the level of tax burden, the number, and the duration of tax payments. Under the sub-item "tax payments", Ukraine has improved its position by 16 places and has reached dozens of countries of the largest reformers in the field since 2004. Ukraine's credit sub-individual ranks 23, one of the steps with Germany, and precedes Russia and Belarus by 81 positions, indicating the development of its financial credit system in terms of investors' rights and interests. Taking into account global trends and recent estimates of the 2013 economic forecast, the government discussed and approved macroeconomic indicators of Ukraine’s economy for 2013. These macro indicators were refined compared to the scenario envisaged in the preparation of the budget on September 15, 2012. Two scenarios for economic development have been developed and approved by the government. The first scenario is based on IMF assumptions about the development of the world economy, world commodity markets, and financial markets. This scenario envisions nominal GDP of 1.576 billion dollars, real growth of 3.4 percent. Consumer price increases, December to December to 4.8 percent. The definition of a payroll fund for employed workers and the provision of military personnel worth 482.3 billion dollars. The second scenario takes into account the assumption that crises will continue to unfold in the world economy. And it's clear that the government has taken the basis of the first scenario that provides for appropriate reforms in the economy and for a higher rate of growth in the economy. These assumptions of the government are based on the following software documents. First. This is a set of measures, economic reforms in line with the 2013 National Action Plan. The other one. This is the 2013 Action Programme developed jointly by the Ministry of Finance, the Government and the National Bank. Third. This is the National Programme for the Development of Internal Production, the Plan of Action for overcoming the negative external trade balance, the steps to revitalize the process of upgrading national production and stimulating domestic investment demand. Steps are in line with the Concept for the Development of the Public Finance Management System. Based on these conditions, the government budget revenue forecast, budgeted, is more accurate for 2013, taking into account approved macro indicators, is 463.1 billion dollars or 29.4 percent of gross domestic product. Including the government’s income of $359.9 billion. In income formation, the expansion of income sources is taken into account by the introduction of a real estate tax on January 1st, which is different from the land. Payments for licences, certificates and government registrations to sources of local budget income that are not included in the determination of the amount of inter-budget transfers. Reduction in income tax rates from 21 percent to 19 percent. Taxing the State’s social benefits, as well as taking into account the taxation of the income of individuals with tax credit. Compared with the budget forecast of September 15, 2012, the budget deficit is 3.2 percent of GDP or 50.4 billion dollars. The proposed level of deficit is, in our view, optimal. The government debt at the end of 2013 is projected at 483 billion dollars. To compare, I would like to give examples that Japan's deficits in 2012-2013 amount to 10 per cent and 9 per cent of GDP, in the United States -- 9 per cent and 7 per cent of GDP, in Spain -- 7 and 6, in France -- 5 and 3.5. So in Ukraine, we're in all of the complexity of developing the world economy and the unreformed Ukrainian economy, we're determining the very reasonable size of the deficit. The amount of government loans in 2013 is projected at $129.4 billion, with an external amount of $36.5, an internal amount of 92.9. In order to ensure the development of the internal market, the share of domestic securities is 71.8 percent. Together, the Agrarian Fund is planned to capitalise on 5 billion dollars in 2013 and Savings for 1.4 billion dollars in 2013 and the UK Danube Parlour Pat for 0.3 billion dollars at the expense of the release of GDP. With regard to the budget’s spending, it should be emphasized that the left side of the expenditure is occupied by protected budget articles. Thus, in the budget, protected articles make up almost 400 billion dollars or 87.3 percent. The government budget is 324.9 billion dollars or 89.3 percent. So the rest of the government budget spending on coal support costs is 9.9 billion dollars, and economic stimulus programs are small. In our view, credit resources must be involved to finance the real economy, and the state has to help with interest rates. For 2013, the total number of protected expenditure articles provides priority spending to ensure a stable increase in pension payments. Yes, in the 2013 budget, the Pension Fund’s grant amounts to 83.2 billion dollars, the increase in transfers to the Pension Fund amounts to 18.7 billion dollars, or 29 percent to 2012. The social initiatives of the President of Ukraine in the area of pensions introduced in 2012 continue and are provided with financial resources for 2013. This includes the recalculation of pensions for citizens who retired by 2008 -- 22.2 billion dollars, the increase in pension entitlements for families of dead war invalids -- 0.3 billion dollars and the increase in pension payments for war participants -- 0.7 billion dollars. The second important component of government budget expenditure is directly social expenditure for low-income or individual categories of citizens. Such expenses amount to 61.5 billion dollars, of which 40.1 billion dollars is spent in support of families with children. The growth against 2012 is 9.3 billion dollars. It's going to be 2 billion dollars, $8.2 billion in housing subsidies, 2.6 billion in social protection for black people, 5.6 billion in scholarships, 5.6 billion in dollars. The State Budget Project 2013 has set the minimum subsistence allowance per person per month as of January 1, 1108, and by the end of the year, 1176 dollars. Compared to December, growth is 7.4 percent. While I was reminding you, average inflation is 4.8, and December inflation is 6.4. So we're providing financial resources for a real increase in social pay. These sizes are also increasing among the main social and demographic groups. For children under 6 years of age, it increases from 972 dollars to 1,032 dollars, for children between 6 and 18 years of age from 1,210 dollars to 1,286 dollars, and so on. Overall, the child’s birth rate is projected to increase by 6.8 percent in 2014. For the first child, 29.3 versus 27.4, for the second child, 58.6 thousand dollars against 54.9 thousand dollars and for the third child and the next, 117 000 240 dollars against last year, 109,840 thousand dollars. The total number of recipients in 2013 will be almost 600,000, and some of the monthly payments for birth and adoption will amount to over 100,000. Also, on the basis of the size of the subsistence minimum and the increase in wages, there is an increase in all the social costs of the government and the budget. So they're increasing in sync. The minimum cost of living per cent to the minimum of living for the main social demographic groups will be 21 per cent for the working population, 75 per cent for the children and 100 per cent for those who have lost their jobs and disabled persons. Social assistance for low-income families is also growing by 180 dollars compared to last year, for children under 13 years of age and for children under 18 years of age by 360 dollars against 2012. Similarly, social assistance for disabled children and disabled children is increasing. And they're going to increase on average, I'm fertilizing, for the children of subgroup "A" and the group plus the care allowance will increase from $1,474 in 2012 to $1,573 in 2013. Similarly, each of these subgroups is growing. In 2013, it is fundamentally new, and a new approach is proposed in principle to the use of investment costs. Thus, in the State Budget, part of the centralised capital expenditure is proposed for the payment and servicing of guarantees that are set at 50 billion dollars in the State Budget. The sum of such payments is at our expense of 2.6 billion dollars. And another part of the centralised capital expenditure of 1.4 billion dollars will be channelled through a traditional scenario, i.e. direct budget funding. Similarly, the Regional Development Fund’s expenditure, which totals 3 billion dollars, will be distributed. And half of them, we suggest that we channel half of them through the lending mechanism and further reimburse the principal amount of credit and interest rates. This will enable us to invest considerable resources to complete and complete the construction of major investment objects. The budget also provides for the allocation of funds to other priority costs. In particular: Coal support -- 9.9 billion dollars, road development -- 19.1 billion dollars. And we're also predicting the application of all current tax regimes in agriculture. According to our estimates, total support, taking into account government guarantees as well as the tax and direct funding regime for the APC, is about 40 billion dollars. With regard to local budgets. A total of 218.8 billion dollars or 26.9 billion dollars and 14 percent more than in the current year are planned for the resources of the local budgets for 2014. The positive trends in the relationship between the center and the region are that for the next year it is proposed to prove the exact amount of income that is agreed upon with the local authorities. Further growth is taken into account. account is taken of the further rise in social standards and structural reforms, i.e. the increase in this resource. There is an increase of 0.7 billion dollars in additional financial resources remaining at the disposal of the local budget boards, which are balanced with the transfer of funds to the state budget. State support through concentration in the state budget of regional development funds. I've already called this figure 3 billion dollars. In our view, the introduction of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u22	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u23	The implementation of such mechanisms in accordance with the Budget Code contributes to transparency in the budgetary process and to the identification of balanced and real budgetary indicators. The government is asking for support for the draft state budget, given that the Final Positions proposed an article that, according to the economic development and implementation of the budget for the first quarter, the government will return to the reassessment of the state budget. And as you already know how it was this year, appropriate adjustments will be made on those issues that have not been reflected in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u24	Please sign up for questions. Ten minutes to ask. Oh, my God, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u25	Distinguished deputy! I've seen the budget, your report is convincing. A real, budget is real and necessary at this stage of building our statehood. But I'd like to hear your answer. Here's the section of the road repair budget. I've got five rural areas, and I'm looking at 700 to 500,000, 800 to 600,000 in my areas. Well, that's why Rakhovsky district is 2 million 167 thousand, Nikolaevsky district of Lviv district is 2 million with more than 1,000. Here's how these numbers are formed. Either someone from Kabmin drives these roads, or I don't know what formula it's using.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u26	Thank you. The calculation of the numbers by region is done according to the formula and is based on the length of the roads, depending on the mileage.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u27	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u28	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko "Fathership", Trojščina. Dear reporter, first of all, I would like to thank you, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, for your huge contribution, and the Ministry of Finance, to the development of Ukrainian culture. The poorer budget for cultural development and cultural support has yet to come. I welcome you. But the second and most important question. I've been talking to you, I've been talking to the Committee on Budgets, I've been talking to Azarov, I've been talking to Popov, and I've finally got to solve the problem of building a subway for the Trinity. The vast array, more than 300,000 people live, still go to translation, who can do the job. I'm convinced that we can find a common language here with the Mayors and the Party of Regions and others. But please don't be ashamed of it at least, first of all, the subway to the Trinity. Do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u29	Thank you. I would like to say that for next year's culture, in general, under the budget, we're going to target 10 billion dollars. The growth against 2012 is about 7 percent. Because it's mostly a payday. So we don't forget the culture. And as for the construction of the metropolis, we have, I said, foreseen in 2012. In 2013, 50 billion guarantees, which will be in line with the projects that have been approved, are aimed at financing infrastructure projects, including the construction of the metropolis. So let the relevant specialists prepare, technical documentation, to start funding as early as January 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u30	Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Kuzmuk, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u32	Please, Kuzmuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u33	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude to you from the Defence Committee for your work during the office. But with regard to national defense, I have a very important question for you. In the explanatory note, you clearly identify the increase in some articles compared with 2012. But it's about medicine, it's about health care, it's very good. It's about military education -- that's very good. But the first time in Ukraine’s history, no money is available for the construction and acquisition of housing for military personnel, this is all a blow, a social blow against the Armed Forces in the presence of about fifty thousand. Fire in the bush.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u34	Thank you. In my report, I pointed out that in 2013 the government's main focus on budget preparation was to ensure the rise in social standards. And I can say, for the military, in cash, the total amount of the wage fund in 2013 is 25.2 billion dollars against 23.8 billion dollars in 2012, which is a 5.7 percent increase. So first of all, we've provided budget funding for socially protected articles. Next. The financing of all capital expenditure, including the construction and acquisition of apartments, is proposed to be carried out on loan terms and further reimbursed on the basis of the budget of the principal amount of credit and the corresponding interest. So we have increased financial resources in 2013. We've defined such guarantees on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u35	Vaszczuk Katherina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u36	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich, I know you as a very professional expert and deputy minister. So I believe that you will give a specific answer to my question. Of course, it is painful not to add the village again today to the social development of the village. In the manufacturing sector, you can argue, you can bet some money, you can bet on social finance very little. And I have this kind of question. This year, all the underfunded social programs, the specific ones that are launched, the treasury-locked accounts, the costs are not for school repairs, roads, cultural facilities, and health care, especially in my Volinsk region. We don't have more than 15 million added.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u37	Thank you. But I would like to assure you that all social programs are funded by 100 percent, and where there are problems with underfunding, today we have passed a bill on changes to the State budget and we will add 1.4 billion dollars to increase funding for all social programs. [[1.4 billion dollars!]] So you're gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u38	Najonov passes the word Samuel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Anatoly Ivanovich, on October 24, before the elections, the government decided to allocate 516 million dollars for the credit of young people’s housing. Please tell me where the penny is. The second question. Why don't we ask for wages and scholarships to teachers, scientists, students for nearly two billion dollars. Please explain how to feed children when there are almost 100 million pennies to feed students, students, orphans and children deprived of parental care. How can these children be fed? Maybe air, if it's not privatized yet? Explain to me, please. Public services and energy services are also a question. The optimal request is not executed by Kabmin again. Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in my statement, I explained that, first of all, when preparing the budget, the cost was aimed at increasing social costs. In addition to 2012, we are directing 19 billion dollars to help families with their children — 9.3 billion dollars — to increase funding for socially protected articles. In order to improve the financial security of the energy budget, the government has increased its spending of 1.2 billion dollars for budgetary institutions by 2013. In terms of capital expenditure, the budget provides about 7 billion dollars of capital expenditure to be distributed by two mechanisms. The first mechanism. It's traditionally going to be 50 percent of the funding we're going to have, traditionally we're going to be doing direct, direct budgeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u41	It's a light bulb. You don't? I don't see Jaroschuk. Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u42	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to clarify some questions. First. In 2012, we will have to spend 95 billion dollars in fines to pay off external debts. Next year, 2013, you're looking at $35 billion. And you have an amazing combination: 35 billion goes to repay their external debt and to repay their savings. I'd like to ask you, first of all, how much of the $35 billion is it going to pay back the savings stolen from the Ukrainian people? And the second. How much does it take to pay off the external debt? If this figure is three times smaller than this year, would you explain, please, what has changed into external debt, what, have we already paid it or any other factors emerged? Because we all know that in the next 100 billion we have to pay for it. And the last. Answer my question, how will you pay the budget this year? You don't have the money in your salary budget anymore for teachers, doctors and all those who have been tortured through your knees to vote for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u43	Thank you. Financial security for social benefits is a priority for the government. And on November 1st, we don't have any debt in any of our regions. Where there are problems with financial security this year with the corresponding local budget resources, it is proposed that today, at a meeting of the Supreme Council, the draft Law on amending the budget and complementing 1.4 billion dollars with a financial resource to pay the salary. So we did a full inventory of the debt on December 1. And where there are problems, of this 1.4 billion dollars, we're going to financially provide this cost of wages. So on January 1, we're going to pay the full salary. And with regard to the repayment of lost savings, yes, indeed, we have offered these funds in one unification program. It's called payment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u44	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u45	Yes, it is united in one program. And it's called "State Debt Services and Depreciation of Valuable Savings", totaling 35 billion dollars. The distribution of this amount will take place after the lists have been cleared.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u46	It's not the outside, it's the debt. These are interest payments. These are interest payments. We will know this figure in particular in January, once we assess the performance of the 2012 budget. And you know that this year we saved 3 billion bracelets on interest payments and sent them to pay. In January, too, we will assess the real situation of the payment schedule and determine how much of the $35 billion will be spent on debt servicing and how much will be paid for the lost savings.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee is Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich. You've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Budget Affairs was unable to analyse the text of the draft budget and its indicators and to give a proper assessment of the state of accounting for budgetary policies and the main directions and compliance with the Budget Code. I remind you that if the State Budget Bill is not adopted by the beginning of the new year, the restrictions laid down in article 41 of the Budget Code will be in place. In particular, for the first time, only the current expenditure of the protected articles is spent on a monthly basis of not more than one twelfth of the 2012 appointments. Secondly, it will be prohibited to pay capital costs and loan from the budget, and social standards and guarantees will not be raised. Thirdly, government loans can only be made to pay off government debt, and state guarantees are not given. Another important question. The process of approving local budgets will be halted, as this depends directly on the definition of inter-budget transfers in the State Budget Act. Yesterday at a meeting of the Conciliation Board, it was suggested that the draft State Budget Act 2013 be considered for this last plenary week. Taking this into account, I and Deputy Lukyanov have prepared a draft decree on the specificities of the review and adoption of the draft State Budget Act 2013 and registered under the heading 11,000-P. In particular, taking into account the time limit, such a procedure is proposed. People’s deputies review the bill and submit their proposals to the Budget Committee no later than 12 a.m. on December 5. The Budget Committee, with the participation of authorized government representatives, prepares proposals for the bill and submits them for consideration by the Supreme Council on December 6. The Supreme Council is reviewing and adopting a bill on Thursday. So, as a result of the bill's submission and its discussion, I propose to support the bill's draft resolution number 11,000-P and to work fruitfully with the State Budget project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u49	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions first. It's recorded in factions. Can you give me a name, please? Mikhailo Chechetov, Peter Simonenko, Yuri Karmazin Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches of the National Deputies. It takes us an hour to do everything. All right, we're doing a recording. Name, please. Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Vladislav Lukyanov. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u50	Dear colleagues of the national MPs, honourable citizens of Ukraine, we are now considering a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013 with you. This is a very complicated but very important document for our nation. This is actually the financial constitution of the Ukrainian State for 2013. What can be said about this document? Of course, the bill that we got after we worked on the government is much more realistic. Well, first of all, we see that the budget was adjusted to 36 billion dollars. So we see that we're squeezing into the definition of basic macroeconomic indicators. We're taking into account the complex economic and financial situation that is now in the world economy. We understand that if our main external trading partners and when Ukraine's economy is export-oriented and highly dependent on the world's markets, we cannot fail to take account of the changes in the situation in these markets. So taking these changes into account, and unfortunately these changes are not positive, we're making a more compressed, more realistic, but pragmatic budget that can be implemented and that will be implemented. That's the first one. Secondly, we're reducing the budget's spending. If we compare the budget figures given on September 15th, we see that the budget went down to 464 billion dollars. We see that the gross domestic product has been reduced by more than 110 billion dollars and this figure is 1 billion 570 1 trillion 576 billion dollars. So this budget is realistic because the budget of the Ukrainian State is redistributed 29.4 percent of the gross domestic product. How can this budget be described? It's a conservative realistic budget. And if enough people dream of cranes in the sky, this budget is a bruise in their hand. He will be executed. It will bring stability and preserve the development of the Ukrainian economy. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u51	Peter Simonenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Next is Yuri Carmazin from "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you immediately that the Company's faction will not vote in favour of this budget. Why? Let us work with you to answer the question: is this the country's budget or the people's budget, or is that the budget of the oligarch clans? I'm answering on behalf of the faction that it's a budget for the extra income of the oligarch clans. That's obvious. All the years of so-called independence of Ukraine have been used, not for the development of the country, but for enrichment. And as today’s huge downturn in production, the budget is used as a source of stable wealth for the oligarchic clans. Second. Don't we know today that there is a system in the country based on the budget for recovery and bribes? And any project, whatever budget line is mentioned here, is 40 per cent of cash deposits in suitcases for officials. And that's true. We're supposed to be with you today to answer the question: did one official for misusing the budget and stealing? No, we didn't. Crows don't turn their eyes. The sources of the budget are now in the hands of the same large owners who use this budget for personal enrichment. Let's take a look together, I'm talking to you, colleagues, and more for our radio audiences. 80 per cent of the 2013 budget is filled by simple labourers who are left out of jobs that are not paid for, from which three skins are torn by high prices and tariffs. Only 20 per cent of the budget is owned by the largest factories, i.e. those who have taken 90 per cent of the property today and do not pay the same wage. [[factories]] At the same time, they dissipate all their capital to offshore companies and are not responsible for it. I think that there are even more problems here, characterizing the entire preparatory process and, of course, the content of the budget. Why won't the faction vote? And here I am addressing you, distinguished voters. You once again gave power to those who last year, 2012, forced you, the Chernobyls and Afghans to go out and storm the Supreme Council. Today, prepare for the storm again, because in the 2013 budget, no social programme to support the disabled of the Great Homeland War and the heroes of the Great Homeland War, children of war, health workers, Chernobyl, Afghans is financed. And the Government has cynically stated that it is not going to finance these social programmes. I am no longer talking about the development of our regions and industries. This budget is a social default budget, and it's obvious. Therefore, the Company's faction will not vote in favour of such proposals, and we recommend to you who promised the people well-being during the electoral campaign not to vote in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be Tomenko from the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u54	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! Let's see what we've brought in and who we've brought in. And so yesterday at 9 a.m., the President's decree was signed that the entire government of the "Pierres of Azarova" was sent to a history dumpster in retirement. The same government last night, this document was dated to us by three numbers, but only yesterday night is the budget here. Is there a legitimate question for you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, from whom did you accept the budget? When Prime Minister Azarov was written here, and such a prime minister was already in Ukraine at 9:00 yesterday, when the decree of the President of Ukraine was published, there was no such prime minister. You've accepted the budget from the government of the impostor. That's who you took the budget from. You had no legal right to do that. As a result, you and I have no legal right to consider this budget, which is what the national MPs rightly pointed out to you today. Now for the content of the document. Clearly, this is the same fraud budget that was introduced in a fraudulent way. As for the contents of the document. As for the content of the document, I want to tell you that it has the same trends: it's nothing to take from the oligarchs, it's nothing to take away from the financing of the President, it's nothing to take away from government funding, from bribery of so-called authorities, which were once called law enforcement agencies, courts. One small example. The Constitutional Court has a budget of 63 million dollars, with only 42 dollars to pay. I will remind you that there are as many as 18 judges and 300 men working there who have not been cut. What do you do with regional budgets? What are you doing with the regions in this budget? In Kiev, if 8 billion were taken last year, you're now taking 8.5 billion. That's 50 percent of everything that's made out of the citizens' incomes of cyans. Why, then, the hatred of Kiev? Why did he vote against you like that? For what? Give it back to the Chinese. That 8.5 billion this year and the previous 8 billion will be enough to finance both the subway and other social initiatives, to finance without "perpetrators" and no taxes. As a result, I also point out that you have stopped the provisions of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Who Have Suffered in Chernobyl. The 13 articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u55	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u56	The Final Positions of paragraph 4 have stopped all social standards and it is written that they are financed from the available financial resources of the State budget, and they are not, because there is a public recognition of the defolt of the government of Ukraine and its policies. We're against this budget. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u57	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, "BUT-"Paternity" faction. Catherine Vaschuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, since I've traveled all over Ukraine and I've seen boards hanging all over the place, where the Party of Regions thanks for their trust, it would be even nicer if we had seen here election ads about how the ruined and improved people's lives would have been, and we would have read the budget in the background. By the way, you know, we've set an absolute record, a suspended government. So the MPs had the opportunity to get up early to 40 minutes to get acquainted with the budget. Of course, the committee didn't read me if I was asked what this year is about the biggest political nexus of the year, I would say that the suspension of a government without a new parliament determines Ukraine's economic life strategy for 2013. Well, it's been like this, but it hasn't happened before. Well, the parliament we're in can't determine how to live in 2013, no one has authorized us to do that, just as a suspended government can't do that. A suspended government that would have to do what? Come here and report on the situation in the country. And not the Deputy Minister, but the Prime Minister, along with all the government. The head of the Court of Auditors was to come and report. Because today, when you're watching "The Secretary of Tender Procurement," it's like a publisher of corruption and country theft. The Prime Minister is former when the mayors of the cities wrote to him that they never knew such a government because it doesn't even allow them to pay, and he will say what do you want? You have to ask for the mayor of the city as defined in the Wages and Pensions Constitution, get down on your knees and ask. But we have criminal responsibility in the country for failing to implement the Constitution on salary and budget payments. So our position is absolutely obvious -- well, that's a farce. Because it would be necessary for this Parliament to listen to government, to analyse, to take responsibility. And the new parliament would listen to the new government, define a development strategy, and vote after that strategy. Second of all, it's very important to me. Well, my friends, I understand that the crisis, everyone agrees, but in order for such an increase in costs for the prosecution and the police, well, the police state to be built up. The Attorney General's Office is increasing expenditure by almost 21 per cent, the State Court Administration by 4.2, the Ministry of Internal Affairs by 3.3, the Security Service by 4.8. So we're saying that there's no money, but it turns out that to keep the Ukrainian people in subjection and to chase opposition and the common people there is money for it. I'm not talking about how education is financed, generally the humanitarian sphere that this government doesn't need. So when we say that the biggest deficit in the budget is based on the history of independence, it's true. But the greater truth is that the budget speaks of a deficit of respect for the Ukrainian people and a deficit of respect for the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u59	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party. Alla Alexandrovska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! We all understand that the State Budget is a financial document that shows the possibilities of economic, financial states for today. Today we have what we have, the possibilities that are reflected in the budget and can only be discussed here, spoken. How can we make the best possible use of the numbers given by redistributing them? I would like to draw the attention of the government to the following points. First of all, this year it was more difficult for peasants to harvest crops, but it is still worthy of gathering. What does this talk about? That in the face of a financial crisis and a food crisis that is already knocking on the planet’s door, the possibilities of an agrarian sector should be used for full capacity. And this is to try to fill in the money supply to Ukraine and to ensure the food security of the state. From here on out: to look as closely as possible at such proposals, we will make specific proposals to support such an area as animal production. The involved moments of support for the development of animal farming in farming, but this is not enough. Today, the milk herd in Ukraine needs to be supported at all costs by looking at articles in this direction that can be cut and thrown away. Support a lysing fund that can help with minitechnics for farmers and private farmers today. And I certainly ask the government and make specific proposals for the development of the social sphere of the village. If we don't adopt a 1 percent land lease law for the social development of the village, we will continue to deepen the gap between the rural and urban population. That's why it's on time. And in the budget, you can't forget the country road or the country school or anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u61	Alla Alexandrovska. Colleagues Volinec and Beveaz handed over the right to speak, so 4. You've got six minutes. Please, Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think we don't actually have a subject to discuss today. There has already been a reference to the rules of the Rules, the rules of the Constitution on which we have no right to adopt and consider the question of the State budget, because there is no author, there is no one who makes the budget, there is no one who assumes the obligations of its implementation, that is, there is no subject, there is no government. But in fact, we do not have a law on the State budget, because if the procedure for its formation, its introduction to Parliament, the procedure for discussion is violated, there is indeed no legal document that we can consider and discuss today, i.e. there is no law on the State budget. But we were given a document today. And the question is, what is this document, is it a budget? Of course not. Because when you look at the document, it becomes clear that there is no money for the most necessary needs of the State, there is no money for social benefits. In fact, there is no money to pay for any social security because there is a crown phrase in this document, which is not being used for the first time, that all these social security guarantees will be fulfilled to the extent possible. If this is possible, we don't know. At least when considering the budget for the following year, we should have heard the Government's report on the implementation of this year's budget. We had to discuss socio-economic development programmes for the following year, and it was possible to say how realistic the figures in the document that we were given today were. Right, speaking just now, the leader of our faction, Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, said that this budget. We are offered an oligarch budget. Indeed, this is because there is no central part of this document — there is no justice. This document does not even resemble a trifle of caftane. As we know, there were no only sleeves in the caftan trinkets, and there was nothing in that document: there was nothing that could cover up the shame of our Government and our State. One of the colleagues just said that, well, the budget we're starting to look at today, though, is more realistic, because when it was introduced in September, there were some figures, and now more realistic, and the income of that budget was reduced by 110 billion dollars. I think that, by the logic of my colleague, this budget should be postponed until the end of the year and waited for the new Government to come, and when there is a new Parliament, then, I think, this document will indeed be in line with the realities of today's life in Ukraine. Why is there no justice in this law? Because here, in this room, the figure has already been named: the income portion of the budget is derived from the redistribution of 29 per cent of gross domestic product. I draw your attention, not once from this rostrum, the representatives of the Communist faction have said that the oligarchs must pay more, then only money will appear to enable us to fulfil our obligations to the people of Ukraine. However, within a few years, starting with the Government of Yulia Timoshenko, part of the domestic product that has been redistributed through the budget has been declining and declining and has provided an opportunity to spend on the needs of the entire people of Ukraine. Regrettably, this document is also unfair because the problem of the State's debts that have accumulated in recent years do not actually resolve the debts owed to pensioners. The pension fund should only pay 4.5 billion bracelets at the decision of the courts. Not a penny is provided for in the law for these purposes. There are almost 2 million children of war in the courts. There are some 400,000 Chernobyl cases in the courts. Not a penny in the budget is allocated money for payment of court decisions. Without that, they will not get a penny of their decisions if they make positive decisions. I don't want to talk about deposits anymore. Well, as a member of the budget committee, I have received some documents that allow me to make a negative forecast of developments in Ukraine. I received a report, for example, from the tax service, which debts exist under taxes and how much taxes have been paid in advance. I mean, that means we won't be getting them this year. Thus, the tax debt in Ukraine's budget for business returns is 440 million. The tax debt on the income of utilities is another 30 million. Taxes on the machine-building complex amounted to 901 million in advance. They've already taken it forward. So these are the taxes that are in the budget's income, but it's clear that we're not going to get them. When we look at how social insurance funds are used, 57 per cent of what this fund should provide to our people is only material. I believe that this law is mythical. It does not exist in principle. And I think the government is acting like a first-year-old, frightening people, confusing people and pretending to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u63	Alexander Bondar, "Our Ukraine is a nation's self-defence". Marina Perestenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u64	Alexander Bondar, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". I want to explain why the government is putting this budget into the current Supreme Council and two days before it ends. The first political aspect. This is one of the financial resources for involving self-reliant people in the faction of regions. Of course, this should be done now through the budget, not when Parliament starts to work. And the second reason. There are two days left of this Parliament's work. And since it's completely unqualified and there's no economic ground there, in two days there won't even be a chance for the deputies to figure it out, not to make any observations. Thus, we are given such a short period of time that the Supreme Council will finalize it on Thursday. Now essentially. The reporter did not say a word about how the budget was being implemented. And it's all over the place. According to various accounts, up to 35 billion have not been taxed. 60 percent of the income from privatization is made. It's a broken GDP rate that's dropping in the third or fourth quarter. And there's no way it's going to increase in the next year. All the borrowings outside are broken. You know that no international organization has long been lending to Ukraine. And they're again putting in a big deficit for the next year, and they're not sure where they're going to cover it. I want to say that the State Privatization Programme has been set up for the next year and 2013 to include 65 billion dollars in the privatization budget. And for the next year, they're betting ten. They're going to gather 45 in 2013? So to say that this budget can be implemented even by those underperforming indicators is a complete economic absurdity. Because taxes during the pre-election campaign by this Kabmin were collected in advance for six months. The VAT is not coming back. All the figures are rolling down today's economy and budget. And for the next year, there's both GDP and taxes, and a lot of other indicators on which social guarantees are then calculated. So I think that those deputies who vote for this budget will sign under their political career for many years to come. Such a budget can't be accepted by normal people. It needs to be studied, modified, and processed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u65	Marina Perestenko passes the right to speak to Catherine Samuelk, a faction of the Communist Party. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u66	Thank you very much. I would still like the budget committee to consider the main economic law to point out that science and education, youth and sport are underfunded by more than 6 billion dollars. And it's basically expenses that have to go to teachers, scientists and scholarships. I don't understand the social direction of a budget that practically assumes that the protected articles of this bill will not be funded. The next question I'd like to talk about is the pay of utilities and media that lack more than a billion dollars. Well, think about it, your honorary colleagues, spending on utilities and energy under the education section for the next year, up to 4.2 percent of what you need, and there's no amount of money at all for higher education. But please excuse me, how can education continue to exist, how can higher education and our basic education exist? Capital investments. 390 million needs to be allocated. Uneducated boilers in schools, vocational schools, roofs. You guys, you're on a roll right now, you've been driving, you've been looking at roofs in schools, you've seen cold everywhere! How such a bill that practically leaves behind can be overlooked! Once again, that's the only way we're going -- we're closing schools and there's no problem. The State program for the acquisition of school buses It was the right thing to do here, but it was wrong from the point of view that all governments were constantly shutting down schools, FAPs, outpatients, district hospitals. Well, look, please, it's not nearly half a billion to run the 2013 school bus program. Well, the schools are closing. Including, we need 25 special buses to transport children with disabilities. And this is also called social law. The absence of student benefits, more loyally, underfunded educational institutions, higher education, vocational and technical education. People are good, it's a complete snag! You put a cross in the future state, and you show how you, including funding youthable affordable housing for young people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u67	Gregory Smythuch, factions of the Party of the Regions. Demyanchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I want to take advantage of my ability and a few words to say about the receiving document, an important document for our state. I'm sure if we didn't criticize today the state budget that was submitted to the Supreme Council, in any event, I'm sure that I should accept that call. And after the first quarter, make some changes. As far as the committee where I work is concerned, it's an agrarian committee of our state. Of course, I did not find much of the government programs that were supported in the current and past years by looking at the chapter on support for Ukraine’s agricultural sector. And that's what I'm worried about, because we have to be consistent, and if some program is going to work in our country, especially if the program that provides some special direction of work is going to work within the framework of the existing law. Well, in this case, there are a number of programs aimed at supporting animals, milk, meat, many years of plantings, fish complexes, and so forth, which are very important for our country, both for securing the internal market and for increasing the potential of the agricultural sector for external markets that are favourable to Ukraine today. And the lack of such State support, including for cooperatives, the creation of cooperatives and so on does not allow Ukraine to take decent places. And another very important question. I'd agree with the Ministry of Finance, and I'm paying attention to this in my speech in that sense, that if a shortcut went through some programs, maybe that makes sense. But you remember that we created the State Land Bank this year. And they told people that according to the concept of the State Land Bank, the State Land Bank had to finance the agricultural sector under the tax regime. And you remember that there is a standard that says that the State Land Bank should finance the sector under 5 percent. Accordingly, if we don't provide the funds to increase statutory capital or for the current operation for the State Land Bank, then I don't find the answer, and how does the State Land Bank support or lend the real sector. So, Anatoly Ivanovich, I am addressing you, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, when considering the second reading, and I insist that the State Bank should receive from the State Budget specific funds that would be used to finance those programs that are not reflected in the current law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u69	Peter Cibenko. Demyanchuk and Naydionov, a faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, give him the right to speak. The next one will be Ivan the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u70	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the head of the Veterans' Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! As I address my colleagues today, I want to say that we have to make an extremely responsible decision this week and take the State budget of Ukraine. And the way we're going to take it, it's going to be a document that's going to be a really financial constitution of Ukraine, or it's going to become a community of the Party of the Regions. I would like to start by saying that the technology of manipulating and sifting the state budget project through the Supreme Council of Ukraine conference room. What I mean. Here's the thing. At first, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine pretended to have submitted a draft of Ukraine’s State Budget for 2013 for Parliament’s consideration. I would like to point out that he made the appearance that he had given at the right time, because none of the deputies of this document had seen it in mid-September! Moreover, he did not even receive the registration number. And now this document is being submitted for the last week of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine just so that this document will be accepted without even opening the paper, because it can only be voted for without knowing the actual contents of the document. And now for some of the practical features of this document. Speaking today in a so-called diversion, the leader of our political power, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, called this document a "social defolt". And this is the exact definition of this document, where, with the permission to say, the increase in social standards that this draft document provides, which was very well told about by the First Deputy Minister of Finance, de facto, does not actually cover even the inflational component that works in Ukraine. Secondly, I want to say that this bill does not provide for a quarterly increase in social standards. Imagine an increase in social standards from January 1st and December 1st. For those of you who've forgotten, I'll remind you, this year, let's have a little bit of money, but there's been an increase in social standards five times a year. Next position. I want to say that in this project of the State Budget, the difference in living for workers and for those who have lost their jobs is more than 300 dollars. One-third of the difference in pension. differences in the cost of living, depending on what this document looks like. Another moment I'd like to pay attention to. This year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine enriched the veteran category as children of war by increasing the basic pension for the status of child war by 1 percent. If this year was 7 percent, now it's 8. And the law reminds me who forgot: this figure is supposed to be 30 percent of the minimum pension in Ukraine. What I want to say most importantly is that the fourth item in the Transitional Regulations of this document is the termination of the 15th rule. One and a half dozen valid laws of Ukraine. Why should these laws be enacted if the issue is handled manually in such a format? And I probably want all of this, what I've said, and a lot of things that I haven't said give me the right and how the first deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, and how the head of the Council of the Veterans Organization of Ukraine should make a general conclusion. And it is that the stated draft of the State Budget of Ukraine guarantees absolutely nothing but the premature extinction of an older generation. I want to pay particular attention to the fact that all of this is happening in the background that on October 19th, the President's decree on preparations for the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Ukraine and the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism was signed. This document has a number of very important positions, but all of these positions, they don't actually build up money. Finally, I would like to point out that veteranism, which is united in half a hundred veteran organizations in Ukraine, is not able to receive adequate support from the State budget for the financing of statutory activities. As in last year, some 12 million dollars are available. This is not enough to ensure a normal statutory one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u71	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u72	I would like to stress once again that the draft State Budget of Ukraine cannot be adopted in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u73	John the Rabbit, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Filenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u74	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies, I will begin from afar, with the need to ensure the personal voting of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Why should there be a personal vote of MPs? There are many reasons, but there is an urgent need to bring the activities of the Supreme Council back to the constitutional field. It is not a secret that the majority of parliaments are already enacting laws by law, rather than by texts prepared in accordance with the Rules. So the language law was passed, so was the Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, and so today they want to adopt essentially the state budget. That means we'll go far if we don't vote in person. There is no government policy in this state budget. And there is no government policy because there is no economic policy. You will not find articles in this budget that encourage freedom of business. You will not find articles in this budget that support farmers today that support singles. You will not find in this budget articles to solve the problem of energy supply in Ukraine. We only see one hole, whether it's a matter of the Pension Fund's activities, or whether it's a question of NAC Naftogazu's activities. So that we don't take -- some holes -- this tells us that this authority has been working towards total bankruptcy, and this budget is, in fact, not a financial constitution for the following year, but a sign that this authority doesn't know what to do with the economy or the social sphere. We know how many promises there were and by the government about solving social problems. But we see that all the social costs go up to inflation, that's only 4.8 percent. From my point of view, the inflation rate will be much higher next year. But when we see central government funding, then we see 4.8 percent, and we see 10 percent, and 15 percent, and much more. What does this talk about? This suggests that this state budget solves only one problem: how to further redistribute money between the oligarchic structures, how to continue to secure financial ownership of the Ukrainian people of this oligarchy, the President and this government. That's what this bill is about. So I don't think normal people can vote for this bill. This bill shows that the government and the president have been bankrupted. This bill shows that the Ukrainian State has been in great danger, and we must turn them away. Therefore, it is not possible to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u75	Vladimir Philenko's handing over the right to speak, isn't he? Please, Andrey Pavlowski, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u76	Andrey Pavlovsky, faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, if you look at this budget, you can give it the motto: "Stability overtaken -- ruins achieved." I want to look at the social part of this budget. Look, for the first time in 20 years, social standards over the year will be virtually unchanged: as they are assigned from January 1st, so by December 1st, they won't change. Although I would like to remind you that under the government of Yulia Timoshenko they have increased, social standards have increased five times a year. At the same time, what's proposed is a penny. The minimum wage will be increased by 71 bracelets and the minimum pension will be 55. And that's going to be real inflation. And what would be the actual dollar to the bracelet? It's eight and a half, but a lot of international experts, and the authorities say the real dollar to the bracelet at the end of next year is going to be 1 to 12. Count this, not the eyes of men, but the eyes of men. At the same time, note that there is no money for the so - called pre-election social initiatives of Yanukovich. Where's the youth mortgage money? Where is the money for the lost savings? They're not actually in this budget. So it turns out that social initiatives in the next year's budget project are covered in honey pelvis. They were needed only as propaganda before the election of the Party of Regions. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to socially disadvantaged unprotected groups. Once again, the government in the fourth paragraph of the Transitional Regulations has halted the actual operation of 13 laws on social protection of black people, Afghans, children of war, doctors, teachers, miners. Victims of Nazi persecution have been suspended by laws. This is the thanks of the Party of Regions in the regions where they voted for them. So we can say that there's a full "stabiliser" in this budget. For power, I hope, but not for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! It's proposed to take a break now. At 12 o'clock in 30 minutes, we will continue to discuss the issue of the State Budget project for 2013. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u78	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that they can continue their work. I'd like to invite you to the presentation of the People's Deputy Kilinkarov, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Oleg Lazko will be next. And Danielenko's passing, so six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I regret to note that, to date, people's deputies do not actually have the opportunity to form the country's budget today, and at least those statements during the election campaign and those voter requirements will, unfortunately, not be reflected in this year's budget. Over the past two years, the Supreme Council, at the initiative of the Government, has adopted not one so-called reform law to balance the country's budget, to balance the costs of the Pension Fund. I will remind you of just a few of them: this so-called scandalous pension reform, which has been banally reduced to a higher retirement age. And from this rostrum, Mr. Tigipco convinced the people's deputies that it was necessary to adopt this law in order to balance the expenses of the Pension Fund. The Supreme Council has passed this law, but why our Pension Fund has not been balanced, and today the Government is taking another initiative: the introduction of a so-called 15 per cent currency exchange tax. The second scandalous bill adopted by the Supreme Council, the so-called 9127, although we then revised it and removed those social articles from the body of the law, but these articles, which limit social benefits, went into the budget last year, and the budget was successfully adopted by the Supreme Council, and the people remained: Chernobyl, Afghans, veterans, all were effectively without social protection, they were limited in their capacity and in the legitimate right to receive the funding they must receive today. The same situation exists in this year's budget: all actually social articles are suspended and the payments made to these categories of people will only be as high as the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of the economic situation that has taken place in the country today, we can only assume how much of these social benefits we will have. Today, according to this year's budget, we have this situation. Every time we discuss issues, we try to find priorities. Where, then, should the country's financial resources be invested in order to maximize its economic impact? Unfortunately, this year's budget does not answer these questions. Where, then, does the economy need to be invested in public finances in order to obtain the maximum economic impact? Whether it will be a machine, whether it will be a village, whether it will be a coal industry, the answer to these questions is unfortunately not. It is difficult to understand the Government, which declares that it is necessary to develop the internal market and restrict social benefits themselves. That is, they do not increase the well-being of people and freeze wages. Today, the cost of products is about 8 per cent of the wage. Today, the vast majority of people live on poor wages and receive poverty pensions. Now the question is, what are we going to do to stimulate domestic consumption? Who should buy goods and services in our country if the financial capacity of a pensioner, a student, a person who works honestly today is paid wages, so that we can stimulate this internal market? I therefore think that the problem today is that the country has a second budget, the so-called shadow budget. And I didn't see in this budget, and I didn't see the government's initiative on how to get everything that works in Ukraine out of the shadows today? How can wages be made legal, and how can they be pro-simulated in order to increase wages? I believe that this is a bad practice of the Government, which will result in the economic crisis we are trying today, the Supreme Council and the Government, to resolve by stretching the belts of the common people, it will lead to an even greater stagnation of the internal market. With regard to the budget itself. You know, when I hear from this rostrum that the Government is going to raise social standards, open up the budget and see that once these social standards are up in January, and the second time they're up in December. There would still have to be 25 December of the month in order for this to be the last day of the financial year, in order not to pay. And then before the Supreme Council in 2013, it is reported that the Government has twice raised wages, subsistence minimums and so on. Thus, the actual increase would only take place in January. The next one will only be at the end of this year. I consider this simply an elementary manipulation by the Government, and this has nothing to do with the real improvement in the standards of human life. Second question. Regarding the return of deposits. Unfortunately, the election campaign was over, the flags were all filmed, the balloons were delayed, the tents were taken away, and today the depositors were forgotten. I'll remind you. This year, a party of regions in the pre-election campaign pledged funding of about 8 billion dollars for the implementation of this article, the settlement of debt under the USSR Sberbank. Unfortunately, I didn't see that. The Communist faction would not vote for the budget and would call on all members of the people not to support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u80	Oleg Lazko, non-factional. Next is Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u81	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The 2013 State Budget Bill, introduced by the government of Azarov, is fortunately demonstrating one obvious truth for the whole country. All the talk about improving life today, about economic growth, has proved to be a myth and a bluff. There is no economic growth, except for a limited circle of people who have been sucked into power, how to dust at the trough, and there is no improvement in life for millions of Ukrainian citizens. The budget reporter gave us examples from other countries that, you see, there also raise taxes and cited the example of France. But you should point out that in other countries they raise taxes for the rich, and we have higher taxes for the poor, because the introduction of a 15 percent exchange tax is a tax on the poor, because wages abroad, people have collected the last penny for their lives on a black day, that dollar, and today you want to take 15 percent of these people's money? Next. You're saying, you're giving an example of European countries that are reducing wages and pensions. But again, you forgot to clarify one very important situation, let's compare their salaries, their pensions and ours. Their wages and pensions make it possible for them to live as humans, and our wages and pensions do not give them the opportunity not to live but to survive. I recommend to any of the deputies who will vote in favour of this budget, the Prime Minister, the President, the report that reported this budget, please live on a minimum wage of 1,032. And let them pay you 50 dollars in 2013 when the utility goes up 100, 200 bucks, drug prices, and everything else. So this budget, the previous reporters said absolutely right, this budget, it leads to one: the oligarchs are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer. This budget is not a budget to stimulate economic development. We don't see any increase in the cost of strengthening Ukraine's energy dependency, of creating jobs, primarily for young people, of lending housing to young families. But we see saved and even increased spending on the authorities, on the prosecution, obviously thanks for political decisions on political matters, on the militia, so that it will be more careful to dub citizens who are going out to defend their rights. There's no money left to execute decisions on the Chernobyls, on the children of war, on the other categories of citizens. This budget is a budget of disgrace, just like today's power that disgraces Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u82	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction. Please, your performance. The next will be Stanislaw Arzewittin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u83	. "Paternity." Ladies and gentlemen! The way in which the State budget is submitted and reviewed is a sign that Parliamentarianism has actually been destroyed. Well, it's a good thing that they did, or people that only in Ukraine did the government prepare for the end of the world, and so decided that for the next year, the budget could and could not be budgeted. What do we have in this budget? The project does not even correspond to the same budget declaration made by the same government. For example, the size of the deficit 3.5 against what was declared 1 percent. The increase in deficits has been compared to 30 billion to 50 billion since 2012. I repeat, this path is nowhere, as I have not once said. We have a much worse situation ahead of us than in Greece. Because our debts are extremely expensive. The service is three times more than in civilized countries. No one gives us credit for a good percentage. Next. There is no calculation of budgetary standards for local budgets based on social standards. There is no link between budget deficits and privatization volumes, 50 versus 10. There is no deficit financing for investment projects. The project doesn't match our laws. We passed the Regional Development Fund Act at the end of last year. But one year was enough. We don't have an extension for approved projects under the Regional Development Fund. And the size of this fund doesn't fit the law. So 1.5 billion give instead of 3.6, which should be, because 1 percent of the revenue should be. Next. Is this project innovative? No, it's not. Even those sectors still alive in Ukraine are threatened — aviation, development, and implementation of new technologies in health institutions. Local budgets are even worse than in 2012. The deficit is about 20 billion. The same problem is repeated as it was this year. So we're definitely making constant changes to serve. Now 1.6 billion, 1.3 billion, 7.8 billion per energy. I'm telling you, we're having a really bad time planning. And mostly, of course, they patch holes, giving money to those areas that are loyal to power. So the conclusion is that the budget is antisocial, the budget is anti-constitutional, the budget is anti-innovative. And the main thing is that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! The country's budget, which is built on unrealistic macroeconomic indicators, is not a development budget, it's not an innovation budget, it's a human exploitation budget. Because no one in our country will believe that we have a level of inflation in place. And Ukrainians go to buy goods at an inflation rate of 20 to 30 percent, not 4 points, as we're offered. So I think that's the discriminating fragment from which the whole budget begins. I think there's the same harmful practice in the budget when the state doesn't try to attract resources through interest rate compensation mechanisms, and they issue billions of loans from the budget. For this, state banks have their own banks and there is an estimate that 20 points of additional resources are involved for each unit of compensation in the economy. This tool needs to be put into the budget. I think there's going to be a bad practice when the National Bank Treasury is making a stockholder company that has to make money on the budget. Notice, in the budget, all state and shareholding companies pay 3.5 billion per dividend, the National Bank has to pay 15 billion. The task of the National Bank is to make the country's credit resources cheap and to reduce the bill rate, the rate of refinancing, to fill the market with cheap resources rather than earn 15 billion a year's government budget income. I think there's a bad practice where government finances go up to over 100 billion a year on domestic loans. They're removing money from the market that could go into the real economy. Then we wonder why the deposit rate is 25-30 percent? What will be the credits if Ukrainians do not want to contribute less than 20 percent? And the Cabinet of Ministers is planning 100 billion direct loans for this budget, and through the guarantees of the Cabinet of Ministers, almost 50 billion. I think it's a bad practice to put unrealistic funds in the budget, that is, not monetary units to fill the statutory capital of the Earth Bank, as suggested today, the Savings Bank. And it's done through the land pies, through the land plots. Now in Stock Exchange it's proposed to be involved through DWP, I think it's a bad practice. There is a harmful practice left in this budget when the problems of Naftogazu Ukraine are solved through the release of shares, then exchange for government securities that go through commercial banks that are being refinanced by the Central Bank is a hidden issue of the Central Bank and counterbalances with the problems of Naftogazu. So I think in order for the budget to really be focused on people, you need to remove these things that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u86	Yes, dear fellows, we have concluded our discussion of the matter. Anatoly Ivanovich, please conclude your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u88	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u89	I am very grateful for what I have done in a constructive way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u90	Turn the microphone on in the government's bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I am very grateful that we have discussed constructively today the presentation of the 2013 draft budget. There are many valid suggestions and comments to this bill. And the government's goal is for the two days that we're going to be working on the budget committee to take a closer look at the proposals under consideration, and within the overall balance of the resource, without violating the budget deficit, if possible, to take into account the proposed proposals. In another, we are proposing, as a result of the economy's work in the first quarter, that the 2013 budget figures be clarified, as in this year, that changes be made, and thus that the priorities set by the government and parliament be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee introduced the draft Decree on Registration No. 11,000-P – on the features of the review procedure and the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2013. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a Supreme Council ruling. [[Registration number 11,000-P]] Please vote. [[12:49:12]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. Factions: Region Party - 184, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues, we still have a number of questions. We need to consult now. But first, we discussed at a meeting of the Conciliation Council that if the Cabinet of Ministers gave a draft of the State Budget, and there was a presentation on Tuesday, we should have work on this document directly on Wednesday, so that, as we have decided in our decision, we can take it up on Thursday. In this connection, it is suggested that changes be made to the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: this evening’s meeting is not to be held, to work on this document, and to continue this fruitful work tomorrow. On Thursday, bring up the issue of Ukraine's State Budget and after the conclusion of this consideration, make an agreed decision with you on the conclusion of this session and the Supreme Council of Ukraine today's convening. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:50:50]] For 237 Decision taken. And also, honourable colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 requesting that the Supreme Council of Ukraine amend the State Budget in order to ensure payment of salaries to the budgeters. [[Registration number 11476]] This is the first draft. And the second draft of the Act is to amend the Ukrainian Budget Code to include salaries for administrative services. This is the second bill, which applies in part to the project of the budget that we discussed. So, if you don't mind, I'd like to take a brief look at the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget 2012 Act. [[Registration number 11476]] Please vote. Who will be the reporter? [[12:52:03]] For 237 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Anatoly Merkowski, First Deputy Minister of Finance. Prepare Baran.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u93	When we form a new government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2012. The need for its adoption is due to the need to allocate additional funds to local budgets to ensure the payment of salaries to budget workers financed from local budgets and to make calculations on energy bills consumed by budgetary institutions. A bill submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine was approved at a government meeting on December 3, this year. The draft law provides for an increase in the amount of an additional State budget grant to offset the local budget’s financial security by 1 billion 370 million dollars. The bill is balanced, and at the same time it envisions a reduction in spending on the economy by a specific 8 program of 1,370 million dollars. In particular, spending on the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Target Programme is decreasing by 130 million dollars, under the Statistical Observations and Census program – 120 million dollars, under the "Actions to create the only regional operating services using modern GPS technologies – 40 million dollars; costing mortgage loans to provide affordable housing for citizens in need of improvement – 350 million dollars; financial support for actions in the agro-industry complex – 180 million dollars; and the creation and implementation of emergency assistance systems for the population with a single telephone "112" – 360 million dollars. In addition, savings were made to pay counsellors and to carry out measures related to the sale of state - owned bank bonds in the statutory capital of banks that had been capitalized by the State; and to hold elections of Ukraine’s national deputies — 170 million. It's a draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u95	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u96	The bill will increase the level of local budget coverage by paying salaries to budget workers and by calculating the electricity consumed by budgetary institutions, and will also help to prevent debt from arising from such payments in December. And so we're going to fully calculate in the budget area for the 2012 salary. A request to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valerius Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Budgets
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, MPs! Our committee has considered this project and has made this decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft of Law 11476 to adopt as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals that we have made in our letters on clarifying the text of the bill and the need to ensure that the budget indicators are balanced when adopted before the adoption of this law of similar bills. Accordingly, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, on the signing of the bill by the Head of the Supreme Council in the event of its adoption, should provide editorial technical and legal clarifications to the text and Appendices of the bill relating to the decision adopted by the committee on the bill. Please support our committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u99	Thank you. If anyone insists on speaking up, please sign up. Names of the national deputies, please show. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u101	Viachelav Kirilenko, please. The next one will be the Fedun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u102	Viacheslav Kirilenko, United Opposition Dear colleagues! Dear voters! It is said that we give too much attention to personal voting. Just 239 buttons were pressed for the 2013 State Budget. I emphasize, button, not 239 MPs! There are subjects who have reached the press now, now with five buttons. And that's what we're going to move to Parliament for the next call. So I have a question: right now, in the first reading of the State Budget accepted or vice versa, he didn't get any support from the MP Corps. We have a clear answer: The 2013 budget, according to the Constitution, did not receive the support of the deputy corps. [[Article 84, which speaks of personal voting]] Now that's exactly what this law is going to be, which is all about, because Azarov, who's already retired, but that doesn't mean anything in our country, unfortunately, has made up for the fact that 10 billion budgeters by the end of the year don't have enough to pay, just teachers over 4 billion, there's another one that's been adopted. And so we're going to have to quickly follow the reduced procedure of these holes behind Azar's patch. Well, at the same time, most people have to remember to press five buttons. Our task, all honest people, in particular the opposition, is not to repeat such unfavorableness in the next call, so that there is no such thing as farming, where 10 billion dollars in wages is not enough, and there is no such thing as a buttonage, because it is one thing for government officials to be happy with and people to be different. Have a good meal, now voted in favour of the budget deficit of the Pension Fund for 80 billion dollars, and no one had a hand to shake, and everyone pressed five buttons for themselves and for that comrade. So where would the country go at this pace and move in this way? And to move in that case, it's going to be a chasm. And our task, honest people, is to stop them from this gap. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u103	Fedun, please. He's refusing. Yuri Hanusztak, please, the Faction "BUT is the Fatherland." Sergey Gordienko will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u104	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT is the Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, local budgets need to be given money. But a year ago, I warned you, That the bills made by the Minfin waiting for Kabmin were only enough until September of the month. For the next year, there will be the same problem. Why? Because this year's budget is being budgeted, it's mechanically multiplying by the wage increase coefficient, because no energy supplement is going to survive. So what do we have? We have a hidden deficit, which, starting in September of the month, is supposed to be extinguished by the Cabinet of Ministers. That is, it is not paid or paid only to specific regions and the debt that has arisen, the creditor. I mean, it's built into debt, but separately, depending on loyalty, it cancels once Donetsk's debt has been repaid. Others don't quit – they didn't vote right. We actually have local budgets, no matter how formal they are, they're raised by Minfin by what's holding them by their throats, by the ass. Now from a formal point of view. The budget code provides for the allocation of a grant of 700 budgets. That is, even if not enough, everyone is in the same position. What we do with a one-digit grant. And then we're dividing, depending on who really did the trick. I mean, the one who kept his salary and managed to spend other expenses, so now they're going to pay off. Because it's already a political issue, pay on salary. And who couldn't figure out who was working on the budget, who was the first to solve social issues and actually buried the communal economy, well, I'm sorry. Whoever didn't make it, they're late. So it's going to be completely demoted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u105	Thank you. Sergei Gordienko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u106	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! I'd like to draw attention to the next one and ask the government. Here's Anatoly Ivanovich in all the governments here to tell us a lot about our budgets. And these are basically the budgets of really social defolts. Question one. What, we had an extraordinary event, and we did not know that we would have enough for November and December? Let's pick up the transcripts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when the faction of the Company of Ukraine spoke and focused on this. But then you said that everything was supposed to be there, and all these problems would be closed. How do we solve these problems? Taking away a poor man, we want to solve the problems of wages. We borrow from credit, from extended credit, where a peasant or a young family today cannot afford to buy a home and give it away. What are we doing? I'd like to draw attention to the fact that we haven't spoken in two decades about the fact that it's really necessary to fill the budget. We're not talking about what the Company says, that we need to get back to government property, and that it's really going to give up this kind of money. We're not talking about nadra, we're talking about natural monopolies. I draw your attention to the next bill. Think about it. We're not talking about natural monopolies, nadrals, and heavy industry. But to the general budget fund in the next bill, we're going to include revenue from administrative services. What kind of services are these? Once upon a time, the man paid the tax when he kept it. Now it will go to the authorities themselves, and it will be teased ten times more. People are good, what have we come to?Oh, my God! Let's think about it. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will not take part in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u107	Wait a minute. Oleg Lazko, one minute, then Mikhailo Chechetov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u108	Oleg Lazko, deputy head of the Supreme Council Committee on Budget Affairs. And as a substitute, I am responsible for this very question that is currently under consideration in the bill. I didn't vote for this bill. Although I, of course, have to get paid, not by lending housing to young people, not by public support for agricultural programs. In order for budget officials to get paid on time, these people have no opportunity to earn any more than their wages. There should be an appropriate economic policy for the government, not a two-week gap between the new year and the new year, but an economic policy that would contribute to economic growth. And this, you know, the high school of economics knows that the economy works when low taxes, when cheap credit resources, and when the internal market is protected in order to protect a national producer. This is what government should do. Not take a peasant to give it to someone. Tomorrow, other budgeters will be taken to give someone else away.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u109	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u110	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, it cannot be overlooked that the negative trends in the world economy, the negative trends in the economies of European States, have, of course, affected the situation in Ukraine. It is important to pay tribute to the Government of Nikolai Yanović Azarov, who has reduced these negative processes to the situation in Ukraine. However, at the end of the year, there is a need to adjust the budget. This is a normal natural process when the budget is adjusted as a result of a quarter or a half year, or at the end of the year to complete the year in a major note, by adjusting the budget to a new year by 100 per cent to fully implement all social payments. Therefore I turn to all, and to the right and to the left, take no sin upon the soul, vote. This is a social gift from the Supreme Council to the people of Ukraine by the new year. Please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-04-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The proposal for a committee on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote, taking into account the Committee's proposals. [[Registration number 11476]] Please vote. [[13:06:34]] For 238. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 16 hours of work on the committees. It's committee work on Wednesday. Thursday at 10 a.m., plenary work, that is, in the session room. Thank you.
