ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:25]] Cards were registered in the 419 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleague, Ukrainian national deputy Vitali Petrovich Zablocksky. Please welcome him and wish him success and good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 13 March 2012. 29 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 1 law and 1 decree were passed, 10 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, and 12 bills were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws were passed after the revision, 1 law was adopted in general, taking into account President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law was rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Wednesday for the performances of the National Deputies. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Zablotsky National Deputy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u2	Hand over the stone. Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u3	Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Jaroslav Kenzier will be next. Anatoly Matvienko will perform. Oh, I see. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the theme of my speech: "The new social initiatives of the President of Ukraine." Convinced that all Ukrainian citizens are familiar with these initiatives, they have left no one indifferent because these new large-scale social initiatives affect every citizen of our country. I'm sure most of the opposition has accepted the President's initiatives. But there are questions that our colleagues are asking from the opposition, and there are questions that our citizens are asking: "Why did these initiatives arise right now, what is the possibility of funding them?" I want to resolve my doubts and answer this question, why it is now possible to speak to the President of Ukraine with large-scale social initiatives. I would like to remind you that, starting with the first days of the new government, the government has already pursued some positive social policy. I think our compatriots have already forgotten, but I want to remind you that in October 2009, the minimum pension was 498 dollars, and we had to stand next to this rostrum for six months until we were able to make the minimum pension 553 dollars. And what's interesting is what's important? As soon as the government of Azar came, starting in April, the difference between 498 and 553 bracelets of pensioners was restored. Why now? Because now, we know, that's what the President said, after the 2011 job figures were calculated, it's clear that as a result of the production intensity, there are more budget concessions -- that's the first source. Second source. The Tax Code worked normally as a result of reforms, tax services, customs services. The next important source. As the President said, trade has increased by 30 percent, and this is also important. As a result of the laws we passed with you, the work wage was detinized. These are all significant budget additions. There are also additional sources that the President spoke of. These sources are that targeted social assistance will enable people who need it to provide social assistance. The next question is, of course, the treatment of benefits, the elimination of benefits that no one needs. The third question is a tax on wealth. This set of measures, which has already been implemented and implemented, makes it possible for us to expect that when we look at the budget, we will be able to significantly increase the social parameters. What are the social parameters? I want to remind you, dear colleagues, what an important step. Pensioners who retire before 2008 will receive an additional 100 dollars. A lot of extras are going to be retired military pensioners who retired five years ago. Significant payments will also be due to the fact that the benefits of the disabled will be very important. The next step is to take. The president pointed out that it is necessary for a person not to need social benefits but to earn his or her family’s living through his or her work. So the minimum wage, the average wage, is going to be reviewed. The next important step is to create new jobs. And a very important initiative, I'd like us to support it, is that the honourable colleagues that, look, today there's no interest in the enterprise, whether it's state or private, to create a new job. And by the way, Sergey Tihypco made such an offer, she should be considered. Today, every enterprise pays the only social contribution. And if, let's say, somewhere to let the enterprise either not pay the only social contribution in general, or to pay in part, maybe these costs are extra to let people create new jobs, that is, through new jobs, people's jobs, that's different. A very important initiative that is critical, but it will certainly be implemented, an initiative that involves creating opportunities through mortgages for young people and not just for young people. Dear colleagues, we have millions of people in line for 20, 25 years. And the president said we need to speed up the construction of social housing, and for young families, it's less than 3 percent chance of building apartments. This will give a boost to the steel industry, to the construction industry, to create jobs. I would also like to mention, my fellow Members, that the important initiative of the President is that, as he rightly said, social justice. And here's a question that hasn't been discussed yet, but it needs to be talked about -- the social responsibility of business. What are we talking about? So let's see, today, let's say that business people work, they get normal wages. Regrettably, some in the envelopes, where in general, our businessmen have forgotten to consider working as a nursery to be a basis for recreation to be other social aids. So when we talk about the social responsibility of business, we say that along with higher pay levels, we also have to think about creating social infrastructure. So, dear colleagues, what the President has proposed is, indeed, a new large-scale social policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u5	Thank you. Six minutes, even more glass. Jaroslav Kenzior. After him, Poljancech is passing it to Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u6	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues! It is widely known that since the time of the Russian king, King Peter I of Moscow, we have fixed about 200 acts and royal and Communist regimes in Ukraine regarding the destruction of Ukrainian language, Ukrainian education. But attacks on Ukrainian language, Ukrainian education, and independent Ukraine continue. Recently, from the initiative of our colleagues Lutsky and Koleschenka came out, as it were, to our Committee on Culture and Spirituality's consideration of the draft Law amending the Law on preschool education. [[authors - Maxim Lutsky and Vadim Kolesnichenko]] As Maxim Lutsky himself said, the author of this bill said that these proposals, which were made to the Supreme Council, were designed to enable Ukraine to give families who spoke in a language other than the national language at home to make sure that children did not get stressed, to come to kindergartens and to hear the language they were used to. And it goes on to say that this project does not, in any way, reduce the functioning of the national language. We believe that our committee in particular believes that this is primarily a provocation against those children who will go to the Russian-speaking garden. After completing a Russian - language garden without learning Ukrainian, these children will also be parents of those children looking for a Russian - speaking school, and they will continue to search for a Russian - speaking higher education facility. And so these Ukrainian citizens will be cut off from, as it were, spiritual and national life in their country and will be left to leave Ukraine and travel to, as it were, neighboring Russia. We are very surprised that these large, so to speak, supporters of the fraternal Russian state cannot, as it were, coexist with the state of education within us and in Russia. Look, we have over two thousand kindergartens in Russian, zero in Russia, 200 in Russian, zero in Russian, zero in Russian, and about 700,000 in Ukraine are learning Russian. Dear Moscow Apologists, stop at last, this Sisyphus work of yours will do nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u7	Anatoly Matvienko, the faction of our Ukraine, will be followed by a non-factional Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u8	Party of the Ukrainian Sobor Platform, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to one fact, or maybe two. On December 26, 2011, our strange Constitutional Court, and even more strangely, decided that the Cabinet of Ministers’ decision was above the Ukrainian Laws on Payments. It is difficult to accept such absurd logic, but the classics say there is no advice. In the rule of law, the Constitutional Court’s decision is binding. What to do with such a Constitutional Court is likely to separate our assignment with you. I agree that the decisions of the courts must be implemented, but by December 26, 2011, thousands of decisions of the courts of general jurisdiction have entered into force to pay legal benefits. If we have such logic that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are being implemented, the same responsibility should be exercised. Moreover, pension funds provide evidence to all pensioners that they are to receive such a pension in accordance with the laws. When they receive less and follow a subsidy, they are not given such a subsidy for utilities. I asked the Cabinet of Ministers when will the decisions of the courts of general jurisdiction be carried out? Unfortunately, I got the answer, if you read between the lines, "never." I find that unconstitutional and irresponsible. And that's why I'm addressing our presidency, to Vladimir Mikhailovich, Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to ask you. I'll do this one. These documents, send them to the profile committee, and with the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers to consider this problem. And the second is the same problem. I asked the Cabinet of Ministers for the reason that today's 2012 budget is practically impossible for the local budget to perform their functions. For example, underfunding in the Vinnitsky region is about 30 percent, Dnipropetrovska is 35, Luganska is 29, Kharkiv is 14, Chernigu is 22, and it is possible in all areas that the underfunding of local budgets is absolutely clear. Against the background of the social initiatives proposed by the President not to do so, the underfunding of these budgets is obviously no less evil. Again, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you, for today's speech, to have the Committee of Budgets consider such funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u9	Alexander Lazko. Get ready for Vyezovsky. Oleg, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I want to draw your attention to the violent, violent crime that took place in Santa. When three people were raped, strangled, and then burned by an 18-year-old girl, Oksana Makar. And as our country's law enforcement system, our Femida, has responded to this insolent, antihuman crime. They let these inhumans out of the guard. These murderers, the rapists, the inhumans have been released from custody! They're holding Timoshenko in prison. Your authority, you're holding Tymoshenko in prison for nothing. You have Lucenka and other prisoners there. Regionals, leaders, I'm coming to you! And you guys, you're getting the killers out of jail. And if it hadn't been for the national publicity of this huge, terrible crime, these saucers would still be going free today. Why are they free? And because they're sons, they're the former head of administration, the acting prosecutor, they're another official. In which country, good people, do we live?Oh, my God! When murderers are released from prison, innocent people, politicians, or ordinary people who are innocent are held in prison by thousands. This is my question to the authorities, to President Yanukovic, to a government that doesn't exist. Release innocent people and plant murderers, rapists, and all who deserve it, and they do the opposite. That's what criminal authority we have in the country today, the gang is running the country. And that's why there's free bandits, there's bandits in Parliament, there's bandits in power, and there's normal people in prison. This is the result of your two-year activities. And that's why I'm going to Parliament, to my colleagues, today this 18-year-old girl, Oksana Makar, on the verge of life and death. Let's help her, a day's pay for her treatment. The mission is to immediately provide all necessary assistance, to drive to America, to Switzerland, anywhere, but to save this child, and these paedophiles, to castrate her, strangled, and raped her. And so, along with them, to castrate the present authority that deserves it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u11	Yeah, in terms of castration, you're a specialist. Prisoner's handing over Zabzaluk. Please, Litwin, Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u12	By associating with the citizens who represent the different sections of our population in all regions of Ukraine, it is particularly evident that these last two years are truly tragic for our nation. Because it was during this period, the period of Janukovitch and the Party of Regions, that people experienced unheard of social abuse and humiliation, society felt the horror of political repression, and it was actually driven by extremism. Despite the widespread social protests and indignation of the vast majority of the country’s population, the regime continues its anti - Ukrainian anti - Ukrainian doctrine, which citizens rightly called the occupation of the country a criminal gang. To the full disregard of the common people’s interests, the defiant defamation of laws and the Constitution, the deliberate looting of the State’s execution, the unpunished parasiteization of the oligarchy and its flattery. Today, by taking full control of the prosecutor’s office, the courts, UBOS, UBOP’s offices, the baskets, and the smoking squads, turn them into extremist regional offices. In fact, dictatorship is trying to create a solid institution of turnarounds in the heathens, which, according to the regime, should be thoughtlessly carrying out criminal orders. Political repression has been unleashed in the country, including the illegal imprisonment of Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, and many other members of the country’s opposition forces. However, there is no one to protect citizens from the spread of criminal Spain, since there is a clear lack of activity in these matters by law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, and courts. Thousands of facts have been recorded as avoiding the legal responsibilities of naked oligarchs, while doing, cheerleaders, scavengers, and criminal elements, eventually in the law enforcement organs and courts of the individual. They have ruined themselves, led by impunity, dictated to society anti - morals, banditry, the rule of law, and sales. One of the last, unfortunately, typical examples is the beastly crime committed in the city of Nicholas. Three inhumans from families of high-ranking local banks raped and tortured an 18-year-old girl, then two of them were released by the police to sign up for non-refoulement. And only after the public rose did they have to be detained. Why is it surprising that in this same city, one of the prosecutor’s deputies does not leave the casinos at night? The chief of U.S.O.P.I. is conducting meetings solely on how to put pressure on the opposition. And the district attorney has not even been able to respond to the apparent pressure from the threat and attempts to bribe the city's bullies. It's working. And such a criminal horror is taking place all over Ukraine. We're warning the heathens. And the corrupt act of the blue and white criminal union: you're going to have to be responsible for the crimes committed by the country and the people very soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u13	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. Prepare the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u14	Katerina Vaschuk. Respectful voters, respected colleagues, after meeting with voters and the reception of citizens, are obliged to raise questions that have hurt the oxen. Rightly, reforms in the fields of medicine, education, social security are being initiated and implemented, and not counting at least one ingredient stops or compromises the best plans and ideas. The most painful thing is that people will suffer. In 2012 the education budget of the city of Lutka is underfunded by almost 30 million dollars from the state budget. The need for education for normal functioning is 276 million a year, and the government budget is 29 million 400,000 dollars less. If the situation is not rectified, no wages will be paid to teachers since November. In this regard, the miscong was urged to live in a tough economy, school leaders, and gardeners were obliged to make proposals to cut costs. As a result, they decided to save everything: energy, wage funds, methodological work, groups, vacations at their own cost on spring vacations -- it's going to be three days, summer and fall -- seven days later, working hours, for example, speech therapists. All of this affects the quality of education. Rural schools lack buses to pick up their children, the cost of repairing schools. There are also medical problems, particularly with a view to reforming the medical system, where the number of ambulances needs to be increased. At least 52 such machines are needed for Volina. And another ingredient. In this state of rural roads that are today, I do not know how both school buses and ambulances will work. Therefore, when reviewing the budget, the results of the first quarter should be corrected. It's the citizens' address, it's our voters' address. And we are obliged to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u15	Valentin Zubov, faction of the People's Party. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u16	Valentin Zubov, President of the Ukrainian People's Labour Union political party. Please pass the word to my colleague Zadirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u17	Please, Bully. To accept John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u18	Gennady Zadirko, Mikolayevščina, MP group "Reforms for the Future". In my speech, I want to draw attention to the terrible event that took place in the city of Nicholas. This crime demonstrates the moral degradation of society. As we investigated the crime, we witnessed irresponsibility, unprofessionalism, and apparent corruption in law enforcement. What is it? The past weekends in Nicholas had been a tragedy that shocked the city’s entire public with cynicism and cruelty. Three young people raped an 18-year-old girl, then strangled her, wrapped her in a blanket, and put her on a construction site and set her on fire. The youths were convinced that by their moral standards, the world view was normal, and so they parted with a calm soul. I can’t know how or when, but I realize clearly that in the midst of the fire and the flames of the terrible pain, the girl came to her senses and began to fight for her life. And the fight lasted all night. Because until about nine o'clock in the morning, her voice for help was heard by an occasional passerby. The doctors, the medical specialists who examined the girl, were shocked. Because the burn rate is so high that some of the bones have turned to ash. While still alive, the girl was conscious and was able to describe the rapists and all the details of the incident in detail. Today, she is in a very difficult hospital and needs very serious help, both in terms of blood supply and in terms of financial resources for the purchase of medicines. Shortly thereafter, all three rapists were detained, but after some time two of them were released for nondeparture. But thanks to the public and the media, law enforcement officials were forced to arrest them again. The question is, Who, and why did he decide to let these bastards go? Isn't this fact of corruption and the "breathing" of crimes by law enforcement? I ask that you consider the MP's request from the MP's "Reform for the Future" group to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and to the Minister of Health of Ukraine. We demand that those in charge of these services take personal control and take immediate and urgent measures to bring those responsible to justice and to provide quality medical care to the victims. As colleagues, I advise you to consider whether it is time to change the highest standard of punishment from eternal imprisonment to the death penalty. Obviously, the socio-economic, moral crisis indicates that we came back in the '90s on the issue of criminogenicity. Unfortunately, though, the State is taking no action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u19	Ivan Kirilenko, BUT faction. Get ready for Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u20	Respectable compatriots! In connection with the social initiatives of the authorities, let me say the following. First. Our faction clearly defines the fact that these nitrites are almost entirely consistent with our proposals, which we regularly, for two years, submitted to the Supreme Council every week in the form of well-founded bills. Finally, they listened to us. The other one. The necessary funds are expected from economic growth and from the tax on wealth. Immediately, the sources raise doubts. There is no violent economic development. The year is expected to be unfruitful. Industry slowed down. In fact, small and medium-sized enterprises have been cleared. There's been a down payment. As far as wealth tax is concerned, it's even more interesting. The point is that two thirds of the real wealth is in the hands of people who are equal to the fingers of one hand, and they don't live here. And what is proposed to be taxed is unconvincing. Ironically, in the entire civilized world, where people have gone up for justice in terms of income differences between rich and poor four times, there are no simple solutions to the problem, and we still have, because the difference is 50 times. So on the other hand, we're offering to review the budget, cancel the expenditure on the apparatus, but tax not the grams of wealth, but the tons, not the hundreds, but the hectares, not the cubic centimeters, but the cubic kilometers, namely, cancel this disgraceful offshore thing called Cyprus, which is a huge monster that comes out of the country every year without any taxes, tens of billions of dollars. Then these billions return to Ukraine as foreign investments and without taxes. Once again, tens of billions are made and exported. The economy is running low, and millions of people are struggling to make ends meet. One vote in this room can increase the investment resource by $30 billion and the execution by $40 billion. Secondly, by what time will the oligarchs pay 8 times less than the standard? The budget loses 30 billion dollars a year. Once again, only one vote is needed, and the money will go immediately. Thirdly, the unique privatization of the mining and metallurgical complex alone has cost the budget about $100 billion, almost 3 annual national budgets. In these circumstances, a very smart one-off decision has been made in a number of countries — not reprivatisation, but a supplement to market price. So what's the deal? Vote and count the money. A fresh example. At the end of last year, it is said that the Ilicha Congregation had moved into private hands, with a budget of $4 billion. As they say, no comment. There are not tens in the country, but hundreds of billions that are enough to raise wages and pensions, not by 100 dollars, but at the same time, as you promised, but not by 3 years ago, by deadlocking this rostrum. That's when you got the country under pressure. Today we will push you to win, finally, the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u21	Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u22	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, yesterday was the anniversary of the worst urban tragedy, one can say, in human history. And it didn't happen anywhere, but in our hometown of Kiev, when 51 years ago a wave of bricks washed the whole area -- the Kurenowka. Two thousand people died. Many have forgotten about this, but yesterday we had time to remember it. And yesterday, there were symbolic Chinese public gatherings dedicated to discussing Kyiv’s overall development plan. What happened 51 years ago was due to the criminal actions of the authorities, the criminal acts of the builders. What can happen today, and if we don't stop, it will happen, too, because of the actions of this power that doesn't care about the thought of the Chinese, who doesn't care about the thought of the experts, who only care about one question about how to divide the earth, how to steal something else. I want to say that yesterday at these public meetings there were all those who were developing plans for the general development of Kiev, all who had worked in Kiev for many years, there was Klitschko, there were many people who were actually working for this city. And we ask the authorities to hear us. In 2002, Kyiv’s General Development Plan was adopted. This plan was recognized as the best in Europe, and it has not been implemented. Why adopt a new general development plan that has nothing to do with the interests of a city that has nothing to do with the interests of the Chinese because elections are to be held? But this city lived before these elections and will live. Let the Chinese make their own decisions as to how to look like the city of Kiev. I was given a resolution of these congregations, which clearly gave me a few points. First, the Chinese demand to carry out an audit of the implementation of the Master Plan by 2020, to introduce a moratorium on construction in the capital in the central part of it. [[I'm done.]] And the main thing. Yesterday, when there were public assemblies, there was a court-martial hearing, an appeal court that canceled the decision to ban construction on the Landscape Avenue, where a park with cats that everyone loved, kids go there, people come from all over the country, from all over the world, and they see that we really, really, the Chinese, are capable of doing something. And yesterday our independent court decided to destroy it, well, that's really a challenge for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u23	Time's up. Dear colleagues, I ask the secretariat that if there have been any requests and so forth, form them as assignments appropriate. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on maritime shipping. [[Registration number 0247]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:35:28]] For 185 Offer supported. Reported by Vladimir Volodymyrovich Korniyenko, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure. Please. Prepare for the Goodyak Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u24	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You will be presented with a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on Maritime Shipping, developed by the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the execution and commission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 0247]] The bill provides for the ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on maritime shipping, signed on 7 December 2009 in Rabat. The implementation of the draft act does not require additional expenditure from the State Budget and the local budgets of Ukraine. In view of the fact that the implementation of the provisions of the Agreement will create conditions for the revitalization of the bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Morocco, the development of maritime cooperation, we ask for the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on Maritime Merchandise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u25	Thank you, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Eugene Goodyak, head of the committee's subcommittee on foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting, considered a bill with registration number 0247 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on maritime shipping and unanimously approved its adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill proposes to ratify the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on Maritime Shipping, signed on 7 December 2009 in Rabat. The agreement aims at fostering the relationship between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Morocco in the area of maritime shipping. According to the explanatory note signed by the Ukrainian Minister of Infrastructure, the implementation of the Agreement does not require additional costs from the State Budget and local budgets. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reports in its conclusion that the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on maritime shipping can be ratified. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications in its letter suggests recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on Maritime Navigation. Please support the committee's decision and ratify the treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u27	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Besides Carmazin, who else insists? Sign up. Those who sail in Morocco. Arjovitin. Viennese, please. After him, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u28	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". I mean, it's a very good thing to sign state-friendly interstate agreements and ratify them. But I have a question, and how does Ukraine implement its agreements? As early as 1992, an agreement was signed with the Republic of Poland on crossing points across state borders, particularly in 2011, an intergovernmental agreement was renewed and the Ugrins-Dolgobichev crossing point was indicated. Moreover, on the Polish side, the only common transitional customs control is built for European funds. On the Ukrainian side, five miles [8 km] of roads were to be built. For this reason, an additional agreement has been signed between Ukraine and Poland, after the President's visit to Poland already in Lviv, he gives a separate commission from April 11. What do you think? Eight kilometres of roads have traveled three times this year, but no one has ever embarked on and built on our side of the common road to connect Ukraine with Poland in the context of Euro-2012. The question is, aren't we doing some ratifications here in vain so that, in the rest of the world, we don't do them? Perhaps it is proper to make sure that not only committee hearings are held but parliamentary hearings as to the extent to which the Ukrainian side is implementing the agreements that are being negotiated. international agreements that take on commitments and do not implement them in the future. I gave a specific example, and I would like to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, particularly the Cabinet of Ministers, on this point. How are they going to implement the Ukrainian-Polish Agreement on the Customs Transition of Ugrins-Dolgobics? And are they even going to finance the deal that was signed between Ukraine and Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u29	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u30	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The noble colleagues, unlike the previous speaker, I'm going to talk about this particular agreement. And I want to pay attention to what's important in this agreement. It aims to promote the relationship between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Morocco in maritime trade. And the main thing here is to pay attention to the 6th article. Because it states that each of the Contracting Parties provides for ships of the other side in its ports and territorial seas under its sovereign jurisdiction the same treatment as for its own vessels engaged in international shipping on the part of free access to ports, the collection of port assemblies and taxes, the use of ports for loading and unloading of cargo and for landing and landing of passengers, for ordinary commercial operations, and for the use of seafaring services. And here we have to note that our courts at Morocco's ports are more than the courts of Morocco in the ports of Ukraine, and so our advantages are obvious. That's why the Party of Regions will be in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u31	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u32	Take care of yourself, Yuri Anatolyovich. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on Maritime Trade Navigation. [[Registration number 0247]] Please vote. [[10:42:35]] For 281 Thank you. Act adopted, deal ratified. Let's go to "Inclusion in the Order of the Day" section. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the project's day session of the Hearing Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the procurement of goods, jobs and services for public funds for the preparation and conduct of the final part of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7523]] Tomenko's report, please. The author wants to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the situation that has arisen with the bill that we passed on July 8, 2010. Let me remind you, there was a serious discussion in the session room where we spoke, on the one hand, Parliament and all the factions present in Parliament are supporting effective, successful preparations for the Euro-2012. At the same time, all the factions have expressed concern that if we allow governments and officials to make public purchases without a tender, there are many attempts to use these budget funds improperly. Then I proposed to amend the law, which was supported by the constitutional majority of the vote, that Parliament exercise control and that six months of government report on the use of Euro funds. It's been six months in January. It's almost time for the year. So it would normally be important for us in the session room first, as we suggest with my colleague Ostap Semerak at the committee meeting, and then in the session room, to hear if the government confirms the information contained in the media, the abuse at both local and government levels at the state budget in preparation for the Euro. How effectively our structure, built into the Euro, works with these costs. Because you know we don't have a tender right now, we don't just have stadiums, we have roads, we have, for example, an art arsenal without a tender building, why he's preparing for Euro, helicopters are preparing for Euro. We will soon have shopping centers for Euro because we do not need to conduct tenders. It seems to me that if the government is not afraid to inform, it knows that it has used money effectively, no abuse. So I would suggest that we include this decision in the consideration of the Supreme Council, that the committee prepares, and we in the government have heard information from the government about the efficiency of using the budget for the preparation of the Euro-2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u34	Sign up. Andrew Pavlovsky, BUT faction. Prepare Arieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u35	Andrew Pavlovski, "BUT is the Fatherland." Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u36	Please, it's Vladimir Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u37	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", town of Kirovograd, 100th constituency. Dear colleagues, our constituents! I just want to remind you that for another civilized and normal state to hold such a magnificent one, give me a holiday, like Euro-2012, would be a huge joy, a big breakthrough, let's say an economic and civilisational even, a breakthrough in some higher and better quality. It is clear today that in fact, Ukraine will not have that much to say about it, because many teams have decided to live in Poland, not Ukraine. And this is also, by the way, on the conscience of today’s power and today’s situation in Ukraine, which it is. I'm not saying that our stadiums cost twice. I was recently in Warsaw and was at this stadium in Warsaw, and I learned that our Central Kyiv Stadium costs twice as much as it costs in Poland. The colossal costs, the colossal wastes that go into this, that is, the great beautiful holiday has actually become a large - scale, if you will, even the universe’s corrupt system, which is now being used by the authorities. I'm not saying that without a tender, these things are going to happen, and usually they're going to do business. As a result, we will not normally hear the truth from the government, but we will learn any facts. I think it's very important, and so let's vote for this decision and listen to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u38	Arjev, "Our Ukraine", followed by Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, it's a dry digital language, 2008-2009, when Euro-2012 purchases were held with all tender procedures each year for these purposes by three billion dollars. Starting in 2010, when the Law on Purchase was passed, one participant began to prepare for Euro - 2012 took off at the same time. I'm just going to give you these figures that are contained in the State Euro-2012 Preparation Program. 2010 -- 11 billion dollars. In 2011, 29 billion dollars and 2012 this year, 13 billion dollars, total 59 billion. So out of 59 billion 53 billion in the three years that there is no tender. And I think it would be very interesting for us to listen to the government, why companies like Altoma win the most important and delicious pieces that are distributed without any involvement of other companies, and just like that, in the shadows to whom they're given. In addition to what is known to have been repeatedly written, genuine tenders are then arranged by those who receive jobs without a competition. Because by then, subcontractors are actually struggling to absorb the funds, little is the question of the rebates that are given during these tenders. There's a lot of questions for the government. So let's, however, take a serious step and how we might not want to touch the Euro-2012 theme, but it's not the Euro theme, it's the budget issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u40	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u41	The distinguished Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, made a fine statement by the previous speaker when he said that there was a dry language of numbers. Yes, by 2010, three years had been driving a tractor on the Olympic Stadium, billions of money had been hit on petrol or on a solarium, I don't know, and would have driven the tractor to this day if it hadn't changed power in 2010 and Boris Viktorovich Kolesnikov had not headed the Euro-2012 preparatory committee. Azarov's rights, when he said that in two years one Kiev had built more than construction works on infrastructure than in the previous 20 years. I also take cities where the Euro-2012 of Lviv and Donetsk will go, and Harkov, there for three years in Kiev for billions of dollars of money under the previous authority, drove the tractor, and without a penny of money in Donetsk, thanks to Rinato Leonidovich, made a unique stadium beauty, a real football colosseum, without a penny of money. That is why I have deep respect for Nikolai Vladimirovich. And if, like him, there were serious people like him in the room, on the right hand side, it could really be considered. But since an attempt is being made to turn the matter into a pyre, as was the attempt to become a pyre, a dirty pyre, a meeting of the President, if they were going to really consider serious problems, we must consider without the cameras all together, and the left and right parts of the room. Ukraine doesn't have to be divided! But as soon as the Pirate Party was not accounted for in meeting with the President, they refused. It's the same here, so there won't be any piranhas. The Government is working. And we're going to prepare the country of Ukraine, and Kiev, and we're going to have a brilliant Euro-2012. This will further strengthen image and reputation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u42	Question completed. Football is an interesting topic. But let's define ourselves by voting. I am voting on the Order on Hearing Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Purchasing Goods, Works and Services for State Funds for the Preparation and Conducting of the Finals of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7523]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:53:00]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Factions: Regional parties – 4, BUT – 100, Our Ukraine – 29, Communists – 25, The People's Party – did not vote, reforms – 1, non-fractional – 5. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the elimination of unwarranted details of criminal prohibitions. [[Registration number 10072]] The report is Sweden's Viktor Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! This is another attempt by legal means to cut apart the complex hub of political problems that have arisen in Ukraine due to selective application in Ukraine of individual criminal and criminal procedural legislation. Already the leaders of the world countries, the European structures, have all convinced us to finally bring us into line with the world's European standards of regulation. We have repeatedly asked the question of the need to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, namely, these changes relating to article 364, 365. Now you will be given a suggestion: add another version of this to the agenda. Dear colleagues, the law currently being considered for inclusion in the agenda, is actually synthesizing all three crimes that are covered by articles 364, 365 and 365 with the "1" badge. Thanks to the legal structure proposed, the point is that the new edition of article 364 will cover fully all the crimes that he has just mentioned. The Committee on Legislative Security considered the draft bill at its meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council include it in the agenda and adopt the bill as a basis. Dear colleagues, I am confident that sooner or later we will find ourselves in this Hall making such an important political decision. Since there are legal issues here, as it were, that are out of the way, but we have a political decision to make here in the hall and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u44	All right, let's get
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u45	In this regard, I urge you, honourable colleagues, to include this bill in the agenda and allow us to discuss this bill in a calm manner and I am confident that we will adopt a decision in the interests of the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u46	Let's sign up for the performance. Prokopchuk, BUT faction. Get ready for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u47	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT - "Fatherhood", Equality. Obviously, the commitments Ukraine has made to the world community are those that the President of Ukraine makes with conviction that they will necessarily be fulfilled on their way to Europe, and they are also included in these standards. And of course, there is a need to implement, including the recommendations of PARJE, international experts. And in fact, this will solve that cluster of issues that actually humanize criminal legislation. Now in the process of resolving the issue of the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code. And so we really need to seriously discuss this issue, put it into the agenda, and make a positive decision. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u48	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Of course, the question that the next day puts on the order of the day is a lobbyist question that has no bearing on the rule of law in the state. Why? Because even on the Legal Committee, the Legal Committee of the Council of Europe considered this issue and GRECO took a firm stand against the decriminalization of 364, 365 articles. The point is that 365th is not an article that's anti-corruption, it's an article that's on the watch for the rule of law in the state. And I recommend that many deputies read a well-founded, legally-founded article by Vasil Malerenck, former head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, in the Voice of Ukraine. Where he claims that if we remove this article from the Criminal Code, it will be the practice of officials. And you remember that there were various suggestions. Let us be responsible for all, but let us rule out this responsibility of the president, the prime minister, the ministers. But most have failed because we are ruining the rule of law in the state. When it comes to the problem that has arisen, the Council of Europe itself cannot be fully resolved today. Because in most countries, this is, according to our analysis, about 37 countries, both European and other countries. [[Kannada]] There is an article in the United States that provides for the responsibility of exceeding official authority. And in this regard, the committee itself said its word, referring to the fact that there is today a commission to report on the delimitation of the political and legal responsibilities of those who are in charge of governments and have high status. In this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u50	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u51	include in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u52	Knyazevitch, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, well, there's a six-year discussion around this problem, and I-I didn't, frankly, understand what we want, what we're doing. It was about the fact that we cannot actually decriminalize 365 articles and isolate political figures, so to speak, take them out of our responsibilities with regard to this article, since there is a special footnote in 364 that extends the concept of officials to political figures as well. No questions asked, this time it is suggested that this issue be resolved. In Note 364, correct the concept of "servicing persons" and "representatives of authority" that are given a very different range of powers than those that have solely administrative and administrative functions. Doesn't it work? So it turns out that the problem is not technology at all and it's not in solving this issue, it's just that there's no political will, there's no proper direction, there's no command on top to vote for. Let's be honest, not look for fleas, make you think again, something, somehow change, to suggest ideas that apriors will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u54	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the elimination of unwarranted detail of criminal offences. [[Registration number 10072]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:01:29]] For 139 The question is not included. The factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 100, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 34, Communists, "The People's Party" – did not vote, "Reforms" – 1, non-fractional – 4. We're looking at the inclusion in the agenda of the 140th anniversary Order. [[Registration number 10013]] Shall we turn it on? I'm voting on the 140th anniversary of the birth of Solomon Cruschelnicki Please vote in a friendly manner, despite the 13th issue. [[Registration number 10013]] [[11:02:27]] For 382 Thank you. It's on and off. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families. [[concerning the determination of the amount of aid]] [[Registration number 9003]] Pavlovsky Andrew Mikhailovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u55	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Honourable compatriots, honourable colleagues, are proposing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families. [[concerning the determination of the size of this aid]] I would like to point out to the pro-presidential majority that this increase in assistance to low-income families is fully consistent with and declared with the last of those announced initiatives by Yanukovich. The project therefore proposes that assistance to low-income families be calculated at the full cost of living at a minimum, as required by laws on State social guarantees and standards, rather than by the government, setting some incomprehensible virtual level of subsistence minimum, which is twice as low as the subsistence minimum. As a result, thousands of low - income families with children receive almost half what they are legally entitled to according to national social standards. It is also suggested that an automatic, non-application of the authorized family representative, a recalculation of the assigned assistance in the event of a new amount of living minimum inflation indexation. I therefore propose to support this legislative initiative, which makes it appropriate to assist the less-funded in the Ukrainian Act on State Social Standards and Guarantees. And I'm also pointing out to the Party of Regions that you should support the Yanukovich initiative, which said that he would find the money to help him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u56	Finish up. Everything? Yes, please sign up for the performances if they are desirable. They're desirable. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Behind him is Grigorovich Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass on the word of Hashuk Peter Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u58	Hashuk Peter, please Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Lowly Families notes the following. A positive point of the bill is the exclusion from article 5 of the State Social Assistance measure of the situation by which the level of housing provision of the minimum is established, based on the real costs of the State budget of Ukraine, and approved simultaneously with the adoption of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the year in question. Yet, we feel that the next question remains unresolved. The fact is that the use of the minimum level of security is directly linked to the economic situation in Ukraine. Therefore, the necessary condition for the adoption of this bill should be a proper justification for the sufficient stability of the economic situation, in this case since early 2012, as a basis for the proposed changes. Given what has been said, the MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u60	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Bondarenko Volodymir is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u61	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! No doubt there will be no person in this room who would be opposed to finally making any kind of promise and raising the standard of living. Here at an early break, one of my colleagues asked me six minutes ago, "Do you know why there's the President's initiative?" We know! Because it's a fast election. But in order for these initiatives not to be a pre-election fan, but to be, in fact, real and have a place to grow these payments according to the growth of the economy, I want to believe that this is the dream of Vera Pavlovna from the novel "What to do?'then I have a very specific recommendation. Indeed, the whole world is in a protracted economic crisis. What are billionaires doing in the United States? 20 percent of their income comes from the country. What have billionaires in Europe done in many lands? Similar steps. So if we want these payments not to be a pre-election one-minute episode, but to be a reality, I propose that we finally support Bill 9721 by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Grigorovitch, which is called "The Social Responsibility of the Great Business." and the bills relating to the taxation of luxury, income in order not only to have social harmony and justice in Ukraine, but to prevent some from growing income and others from solving their social issues just before the elections. So only within the framework of these bills will social payments to the population, including the President's proposals, become reality. Under such conditions, it will indeed be social justice. I hope that this legislative act, which has been put into the order of the day of this session, will finally be supported by our Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u62	Bondarenko's handing Tomenka over to Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the bill is principled and important in view of today’s debate on social policy in Ukraine. As the opposition to this bill and to others, we have pointed out that the government officials' statements were made several weeks ago, and I remind you that several weeks ago the Prime Minister and several ministers have said that the opposition's initiatives to raise minimum wages, pensions, raise social benefits are no different than provocation and populism. After the President announced our initiatives, although we don't know them yet, the Prime Minister said they were historic initiatives that Ukraine had been waiting for twenty years. Thus, as opposition, we support the need to fulfill our obligations and invest in the poorest social groups. But the question is, To date, who, in what way, and at what cost will they be implemented? Why do we propose to do so by law in the session room? Because this is the situation that we were going through in 2003-2004, when before the elections, there was a one-time supplement, regulated by the budget, and then it became illegal. Therefore, the three - month or one - year budget may not be able to raise a minimum pension by one hundred, twenty, or fifty dollars, as suggested by Andrew Pavlovsky, who proposes the opposition. That's why we're waiting in Parliament for the government to say how the economic policy strategy has changed, what changes to the budget, what we're going to do with funding local budgets. You know we're in Kiev for the first time in 20 years. We're talking about social initiatives, teachers didn't hold wages in several parts of Kiev on time. Yesterday they started issuing wages, before March 8th they didn't get any. What are the social initiatives if the real budget is not being implemented today? Well, at the end of the day, I have to move away from the subject, because my colleagues -- the most famous Ukrainian sociologists -- have come to me, Eugene Golovaha, Sergey Maceev, Mikola Churilov, Alexander Vishnyak, and they said, "Why did we wait for our authorities at last?" So there was, in Stalin times, a doctor's case, now it's a sociologist's case. The U.S.A. is calling out the entire scientific board of the Institute of Sociology, and if they don't come, they're saying we'll force you to join the U.S.S.A. "Why?" - I'm asking the most famous Ukrainian sociologists. Because there seems to be a suspicion that a contract was signed with the Institute of Sociology and that financial calculations were wrong. Then call the accountant! What is the purpose of the Council of the Institute of Sociology, which is being questioned today by the U.S.S. So I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, would like to pay attention, perhaps, to the head of the U.S.S.A., to concentrate on rapists, rapists, murderers, rather than calling on sociologists or scientists at the Academy of Sciences to do their job.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u64	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u65	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, it was very nice to hear from this rostrum from the author, one of the leaders of the BUTT and the Fatherland, in fact, an apology to the President for the fact that on the first day after the announcement of the social initiatives, the BUT faction made a strong criticism. And little has been said, in fact, an apology, one of the leaders of the BUT, the drafter of the bill, has called for the President's policy to implement the social programme. Well, you could say that, bravo! There's a ripening. Prosperity is coming! But I want to say this. You know, well, there are sacred things, and when it comes to raising the social standard of people's lives, well, you can't turn it into a dirty pyre. Because if we wanted to solve the problem seriously, because there was a constructive moment yesterday: we could have come to the President, where all the faction leaders had been, clearly discussed, laid down on their fingers which bills needed to be adopted first, which financial resource under a particular bill. That's in terms of the case, not the pyres. But here's his Majesty's pierre first! So to this day, we have to understand that we can accept anything. We've been doing this for 10 years and so on! You have to do it, and to do it, you have to have the financial resource, and you have to count each penny. That is why, in order not to make empty promises, in order for decisions to be translated into a real improvement in the standard of living, it is necessary to sit at the table with the President, to talk, to build policies for the implementation of the President's social initiatives and to thank the author for his support and call for support, and then to make a decision. I think that this proposal will be found in the context of the measures developed by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Ladies and gentlemen, since the discussion is over, proposals for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law. Now we need to consider the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the bill. [[Registration number 9003]] I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:15:11]] For 171 Not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your permission? The factions? Please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 98, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 25, Communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-fractional – 6. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? According to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction, "BUT – "Fathership" on 14 March 2012 and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the expulsion of the national deputy of the country of Natalia Jurijovna Královska from the membership of the deputy faction "BUT – "Fatherschina". Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the Faction "BUT" – "The Fatherland", the faction "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" – have filed a statement under the Rules granting a recess for the application. Helen Bondarenko, the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" is the word for the statement, which is from two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u67	Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine unanimously decided to review the draft Regulation on the implementation of the recommendations and requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Today's project is not included in the agenda, and this gives us good reason to believe that the leadership of the Supreme Council is obviously influenced and that the majority's demand is deliberately hampered by a decision that provides a clear plan for meeting the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly resolution of the Council of Europe. The bill of a member of our faction Victor Sweden to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine is also not included in the agenda. [[on the elimination of criminal offences in detail]] This bill is aimed at harmonising Ukrainian criminal legislation with European standards. The "BUT – "Paternity" faction claims that delaying Parliament's consideration of the implementation of the provisions of the Resolution of the PARE into Ukrainian legislation is a deliberate sabotage, primarily against Ukraine's Euro-Integration Process. In addition, delays in meeting the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly threaten real economic sanctions against Ukraine. It seems that most have set the goal of destroying the basic foundations of Ukraine’s independence. The opposition's efforts have put aside the draft law on the privatisation of the gas transport system, but today it is blocking the consideration of issues that will either lead Ukraine on a European path, or inevitably lead to the international isolation of Ukraine. In today’s economic conditions, this is unacceptable. The current position of the majority is a betrayal of national interests, which must be held accountable. Colleagues! Let us try to show a little respect for ourselves. We understand that the authorities of Yanukovitch have no intention of following the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and they will not exercise them today, and they will not exercise the right of conscience of each of us, either to compel authority to execute, or to Cossack it in the process of hanging noodles on the ears of Europeans, or as Hillary Clinton put it, to lead Europe and the world behind the nose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u68	Thank you. As a result of the suggestions made in the speech of Mikola Tomenka, I ask that you prepare an appropriate parliamentary request. With regard to the statement and the speech, my distinguished colleagues, I would like to ask that we do not give up such accusations, for we are about to go back to pressing charges that on Friday, when we were ready to put the matter into the agenda, and the committee could prepare it today for consideration, the rostrum was blocked. So, I said, and I repeat, including for the rapporteur, that as soon as the committee considers this issue, we will bring it up for consideration by the Supreme Council. Do you have to do it again? I repeat, the committee should consider this question. In whose hands is the committee? Who are you appealing to? What betrayal, what honor, what conscience? Let's have some compromise, we'll have a dialogue, we'll agree, we'll vote. The committee will consider it, and we will consider it now, dear colleagues. Moreover, I suggest that if there is no agreement, let us take as a basis the document, add to it, clarify it, but make a document that is not necessary for mutual accusations, but for a solution to the matter. Any desire for compromise and I listen, first of all, to the opposition of most people, you view it as weakness. I think it's wrong and wrong to treat each other. I would ask you, let's save this dialogue. And by the way, as we agreed at 12 o'clock during the break, I'm asking the leaders of the MP factions and groups to gather to discuss a number of issues that we need to agree on. Now let's move on to the next question. This is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the humaneization of legislation on pre-trial imprisonment and the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of persons held in custody]] Do we have to look at it for inclusion in the agenda? Please, Mikhaylo Chechetov, your offer. The offer must be made. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u69	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have a very busy agenda today and we have very serious bills at the end that need to be considered. Therefore, the bill is requested to consider the short-term use of parliamentary time more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u70	Thank you. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:21:57]] For 221 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy Arsenij Yatsenuk. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on legislative security and law enforcement activities, Vladimir Moisik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u71	Honorable Members of Parliament! This bill was born after a group of National Deputies from the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, and I had made visits to the investigative isolation in Lukyanovka. The Lukyanov insulator, known for keeping political prisoners there, is a Lukyani insulator known for being almost half overcharged by its power. I'm just going to give you a brief description of how people are kept there. We had no opportunity to visit Julia Timoshenko, but we had the opportunity to walk through the detention facility. And for example, when I went into the medical department and asked us to be escorted to a department where people with tuberculosis are being held, there was a mask on the whole group of national deputies -- one for ten national deputies. I'm not saying that there's no cure in the investigative isolation. I'm not saying that there's no way in hell to feed those people who are innocent under the law. Because there must be a presumption of innocence in the country. That is, by the time the trial is decided, all the people held in Ukraine's investigative detention facilities are innocent. Surprisingly, President Janukovic even paid attention to the matter. But all that remains is that 19,000 people are being held in detention cells, of which 1 thousand 300 people are being held for more than a year and a half. Yesterday, the Council of Europe published a report on what is happening in Ukrainian detention centres. I'm going to bring in the facts, just the facts of what the Council of Europe says. In Kharkiv’s detention facility, 44 people sleep in turns for 28 months in a cell. In the Kharkiv Insulator, in the Kyiv insulators, persons held in custody are beaten with sticks, tortured during interrogations and, attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u72	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u73	They use electroshocks and choke with plastic bags and anti-gases. This is the conclusion of the Council of Europe. Our law is designed to allow people who are not condemned to feel human. First of all, it refers to visits, transfers, the possibility of showering, the possibility of getting medical care, the possibility of staying human, as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights stipulates, rather than being destroyed by this regime. Please uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u74	Vladimir Romanovich Moysik is the head of the subcommittee. Please make the decision of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u75	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Law Enforcement Committee considered a bill by Arsenija Yatsenuk and Ruslan Knazević on the humanization of legislation on prior imprisonment. As reported by the author of the Arsenij Yatsenuk bill, the conditions for holding innocent people who have not yet been convicted on trial are terrible. It's impossible to visit people. The new Criminal Procedure Code prohibits relatives and close people from being lawyers for these people in criminal proceedings. He cannot be visited by either MPs or representatives of the world’s organizations. Thus, the bill regulates these issues and humanizes the conditions for the execution of persons held in prison. The main scientific and expert office made a comment on the bill. At the same time, the committee, after reviewing the bill, considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be supported on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u76	Thank you, Vladimir Romanovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Yuri Odarchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." The next one will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u78	Sergei Sobolev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, we are the representatives of the BUT faction, Fatherland, and we will support this bill in every way. I was one of those who from the faction visited with a group of deputies in Lukyan. And I think we've remembered these visits all our lives. When, in fact, 60 percent of our citizens, who are later found guilty as a result of court decisions or decisions made by the prosecutor’s office or judicial investigations, are found to be behind bars. When in fact the conditions of being in jail for people who do not have court sentences, I reiterate, most of which end-of-life will be at large when a trial is conducted or directly by a decision of the prosecutor's office or investigative authorities, in fact in Scottish conditions being thrown out directly for living or otherwise not, because in fact these people are in inhumane conditions. This applies both to health care and to basic standards, and directly to sanitation and other conditions. That's why I think this bill is very timely. It will enable us to resolve the key issues on which we, as Ukraine, have made commitments, including to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And this will enable us to do at least one of the many points that we have not yet fulfilled. That is why our faction will insist that this issue be resolved positively in the session room. Moreover, I am convinced that the amendments that will come before this bill will only improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u80	Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, you know, in this room, we don't often consider bills that we just can't not vote for. It's not about who the author of the bill is, although I'm one of the authors. The point is that this is a bill that is an attempt to remedy the violent injustice that was committed in this room at the dawn of Ukrainian independence. That's when the Criminal Enforcement Code was adopted, which regulates the conditions for people to be in places where the will of those who have already entered into legal force are to be ruled by the courts. And as for those who are in pre-trial detention and do not yet have such judicial decisions, so-called investigative isolations, are completely out of the law of this Criminal Enforcement Code. And think about it, until now, after 20 years of Ukrainian independence, there is no legislative consolidation of their constitutional rights. And that's why when we were really in the detention facility in Kiev, we saw some very, very, very loud facts. Think of it: People are not allowed to wash themselves more often than once every 10 days. This is because it is allowed to wash exclusively in cold water. It's just, you know, shame not for a particular power, but shame for the state. It's embarrassing, all the time talking to international colleagues from the Council of Europe, when they remind you of such facts, to think that you live in a country that is central to Europe. Dear colleagues, there is no politics here. This is a law designed to ensure that every person in this state knows that, regardless of where he is tomorrow, his constitutional rights will be properly protected. I ask actively, in 300, no less, to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u82	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, well, the bill itself is one with the text, the author's speech on something else. The committee was talking about a third. The speaker spoke of the fourth. I have a question: do we have any claim to investigative isolation? Yes. So we have a proposal to increase the financing of investigative isolations. Let's ask this question, and we'll raise funding, we'll put a normal order there, and we'll make European standards of maintenance. And one more thing, I want to see the author. What, though, was different in Ukraine’s time when a unique command under the cover of a beautiful coalition was something else? Could all the TBs have had enough masks or medications? And the third. Ladies and gentlemen, where have you been? I feel like you've been abroad for a long time, come here and suddenly see. This has been so since the time of Yashchenka. Oh, my God, what's going on in here in P.I.? But that's exactly what I took the word for. Look, there's just three speakers here talking about these Santa freaks. Ruslan, there is no soul. Go to the holding cell, wash their backs. And you were thinking about those people, the victims of those assholes sitting there. Did you think about those people who have been in terrible trouble, terrible crimes from those who are now in detention? What do you think Europe is? You protect people, you protect the interests of those who have suffered in the accident, those who are innocently murdered, you protect them. We need to put order in SIZO, let's change the budget with you after the first quarter, make changes and complements. This bill cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I'd like to. Dear colleagues, with all the possibilities and emotions of this issue, I would like to maintain mutual validity. Dear National Deputies! Chaplain, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u85	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group comes out of the first one that comes out of this bill, which, in fact, is not a final sentence. So people in these circumstances can claim a more humane relationship with themselves. We're getting out of this first. The other one. There are innovations that have been introduced by this bill, which actually humanize this area and really give us additional rights that have been missing for the last 100 years in the territory of this state. Clearly, this needs to be maintained. But there are innovations that we can't understand. The language goes, for example, to "keep persons in custody, in temporary holding cells, on haupwakhs. or in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which are defined not by the laws of Ukraine but by the Cabinet of Ministers. What is this novel? And the second. There was a misunderstanding of the offer of rights and of a number of persons who had nothing to do with it without special permission to go there. We only supported this bill in the first reading, but we will support it in the first reading as one that brings our legislation to an international level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill should be returned to work. But obviously one of the respectable colleagues, who, in the legislative sense, belongs to the Supreme Council, has to deal with this issue, of course, by putting off their emotions, with mutual accusations. From this, I think it's not going to be any easier for people whether they're accused or not, they're people. And we obviously need to get out of this obvious. Dear colleagues, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the humaneization of legislation on pre-trial imprisonment and the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of persons held in custody]] Please vote. [[11:35:18]] For-163 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 2, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 95, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 42, communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 5. Dear colleagues! This is a proposal: to entrust the Committee on Law Enforcement with generalizing relevant legislation, including those that have not received support, and within 10 days of April of the month, to prepare an appropriate project that would complement, clarify and amend existing legislation in terms of humanizing it and bringing it to human beings, I will use that word, positions. Thus, the commission of the committee will be formed today. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing a draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine. [[on the strengthening of State and public control over the enforcement of the rights of convicted persons in enforcement institutions]] The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Griesenko. The committee is the head of the Committee on Legislative Security of Sweden, Viktor Dmitrovich. Unfortunately, the committee in the Criminal Procedure Code did not consider the document. But the month has passed, and there is good reason to discuss it in the session room. I'm betting on a motion from the author to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:37:15]] For 203 They've already voted! "For" is 203, the decision is made. The reporter is Anatoly Gritsenko, co-rapporteur Victor Schwetz. Whether or not the committee will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This bill is not personalized. It's not about Timoshenko, it's about Lucenka, Yvashchenka. You know my position on the illegal condemnation of these people, but that's different. Because in the amount of abuse that has taken place and has taken place before, you can do so. As in that anecdotes, they're all going to sit down! More specifically, all factions. Before that, it'll all be over soon. The tens of thousands of our people who are in prison are our citizens, and we must be convinced that they are keeping the law just as they are at large. The essence of the bill is to strengthen both state and public control over what is going on in prisons. It's simple. It's an extra. Public officials who, without any additional permission, pass through and fix the situation, as well as the media. It's expanding. Because that's what it's supposed to be now. So there's no speculation that it's cool, and actually people can't live in decent conditions, or vice versa. For us to understand that people who return to normal freedom rather than be mutilated should come out of prison. Moreover, when a person steals millions and billions of dollars, he is redeemed and the one who steals a bicycle or a ram is planted. If there is a remark, since the committee has not yet been able to consider this document, and the refinement to the second reading, I would ask that I do not accept it as a whole, just on the basis that everyone can do his best to read it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u88	Yuri Prokopchuk of the committee will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u89	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, Bill 9708, introduced by the national MP, Mr. Gricenko Anatoli Stepanovich, is intertwined with the previous bill, which deals with control, including public, of the rights of convicted persons in the institutions of the execution of sentences. For no one is the secret of what is happening today in the investigative cells and in the places where convicted persons are today under court orders. We have facts like yesterday's court decision, for example, when a man sat for eight years, being illegally convicted, he was Dmitrenko. We have the most recent facts that, right, these women who raped a girl in Santa Claus, by the way, not by our own authority, but by your penal and law enforcement authorities, were released because they are high-ranking sons. And I want to support this context of the bill that your colleague Vladimir Sovkovic filed about chemical castration and return to it. Does this have anything to do with this? Apparently it does. And that's why there's a rule: don't deny the amount and the prison. Everything changes, and the power changes. Let's think about those who are currently, in fact, illegally in detention centres, sleeping for two hours because the night divided into four parts, those who are illegally convicted today suffer political repression, namely Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko. So once again, even though the committee has not considered this issue, it needs to be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. National Deputy Tishchenko, “BUT” faction, “The Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u92	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the “Batakščina” “Clock of the Yulia Timoshenko – “Batakščina”. Catherinechuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u93	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko Thank you, Oleg Ivanovich. He and I have been through virtually all the premises of the Cachavian prison, and we have been in other institutions. And I want to tell you that only a fraction of the issues raised today by Anatoly Griesenck and the other authors of the law is a reflection of the terrible situation in which the prisoners are being held today, as well as those in previous isolation. Do you realize that none of those who have gone to prison can form their pension despite the fact that they have practically worked out their internships or have fully produced their internships? That's not how our legislation is built. There are no newspapers, no books, no people isolated from the world. No one pays any attention to women’s detention because there is no difference between a woman and a man’s health condition and 100 grams of powder per month and soap crumbs. And there are specific needs. That's why we've put forward another bill that's going to be considered on the committee today, and it's a complement to the organic situation that's described in this previous law. We need to strengthen the role of the state today in bringing responsibility, but also the role of the public in controlling how public authorities, prosecutors, investigators, penitentiary systems treat people because it has turned into a system of abuse. And it is not necessary to share here today who is now and who will be here tomorrow. I want to say that those who do not vote should remember the saying of George Prokopchuk: No one is insured from the amount and the prison. Dear friends, we are in a good position today, national MPs. But think of the thousands of people who are in prison today who are physically and morally disabled because such laws are in place. Keep it up. Because then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u94	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u95	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I think that this bill is worth supporting and thanking the author and the first and second that, despite the fact that the situation with the institutions of prior imprisonment is in that state a long time ago, but sooner or later we have to start with something. I just want to take your attention, national deputies, a letter from the European Committee against Torture. It is signed by the European Court of Human Rights of Lutkovsky. Who responds to a letter from the executive secretary of the European Committee against Torture and writes such a letter. As for the practice of handcuffing patients to hospital beds in the detention ward of the Kyiv City Hospital of Emergency Medical Care. Checked out. Instructions have been changed. And then handcuffing them to hospital beds will be exceptional. With regard to the use of a metal cage in which they are detained during medical examination by a feldsher. There, too, they found a way out. There will be a separate room, and there will be no more people, to say the least, in iron cages. And the other questions that I think are right here. But I'd like to make a point, however, of the people's deputies, and your attention to this initiative. In fact, without civil control, it's impossible to understand what's going on there. So we need to expand what Gritsenko is proposing, expand the circle of people who can go in there, give journalists the right to explain these things, communicate, and evaluate them. If this is the regime, the regime will remain the same, no matter how much money we give to improve the situation, no better treatment of people who are even prisoners who commit crimes will be punished. That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u96	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u97	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, under this bill, I would like to say, well, there has been such an effort to protect Ukrainian citizens who are outside of free movement, because they are people and each one of them needs help, every one of them walks under God, each one of them has hands, legs, that soul like each one of us. But to this day, should we make a mess of these institutions that are actually forcing such people? I have great respect for Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenka, but I want to say that today we can talk about humanizing this sphere, we can talk about what really needs to be helped and arranged, we need to make it more transparent, but we shouldn't turn these institutions into circuses when people come when they want, how much they want to visit anyone, they meet with anyone at any time, even at night, I understand from this bill. And the next question is, it takes people, two journalists, three doctors, representatives of the media, to make it public. What is it? This is what we will all need to record for admission to those prisoners to whom we will attend. You can't do that. There's an offer. Let's, if we want to, really bring the order in this area, and the MP's Reforms for the Future raises two hands, each of our representatives raises two hands, we get, let's get a real look at this problem. There's a proposal, in our opinion, for normal Bill 9216 of Yatsenuk Arsenij Petrovich and Bill 9708 of Anatolia Stepanovich Grizzenka to consider together, to elaborate on the committee and to submit as the only one, and then, in fact, to remove these assistant deputies, deputies of local councils and so forth, and to introduce the only normal bill. We'll vote for it in both the first reading and the second reading, I'm sure it'll be 350 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The name was twice Anatolia Grizzenka. Please, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u99	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you to your colleagues for having a meaningful discussion. Unfortunately, in the last speech of a representative from a group called "chiki pika," it went completely to the other side, no circus there, no humanization there. It's about keeping the law, the dot, everything else. And law enforcement is being monitored by government officials, officials who were listed there are simply expanding the list, and plus the public that they are now, is just expanding, plus the press. There will be no circus and there will be no harsh conditions for the convicts, there will be no certainty that if, for example, the equipment, there's $400,000, someone is sitting there, there's going to be a law on it, and we're with you in that guarantee. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u100	About what? Last name, what was it called? Oh, come on. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, your last name didn't ring a bell. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, I request your attention. What we need in legislation to respond to this problem is clear. I'll tell you one minute. But I'm supporting a colleague here who's been speaking, and now there's a replica that says we shouldn't have any interrelationships, because at the time that we were being shown in the hospital chained to bed was the former head of the Zacarpathian district organization, there were two MPs on it protecting, laughing, applauding, saying that it was order. We do. Just a minute. We need to make, Your Honor, I ask you to understand our responsibility for making those decisions that would ensure public control over the functioning of places of deprivation and that we are not happy and that we do not carry out mutual responsibilities, which I urge you to do. So I have a request: to support this bill in the first reading, to have it seriously worked out in the area of access, because I'm going to call it that number, my fellow citizens, we have only the national deputies of assistants, including those who work on the social agendas -- 11,000, 2,000 -- are official assistants, they're written here. I suggest you take a close look at the creation of a thin, efficient, effective system of public control, and no more. So the request is to accept it in the first reading, to refine it, remembering, in addition to everything else, our national wisdom, which has already been spoken of twice, and there is no need to repeat it. So I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft law, issue number 9708 on amending the Ukrainian Penal Code. [[on the strengthening of State and public control over the enforcement of the rights of convicted persons in enforcement institutions]] Please vote. [[11:52:10]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Then that assignment, one minute, remains and strengthens, the commission that was published on the profile committee. Because this law basically repeats the idea of a previous law -- to make one bill. I think we'll hold consultations and make a compromise decision. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Once again, at 12 o'clock to the faction leaders, there'll be a Conciliation Council, a conciliatory meeting. I now propose to you the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to promote the employment of students and graduates of higher education institutions. [[Registration number 9658]] The suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please. [[11:53:32]] For 211 Decision taken. Reporter: Oleg Tishchenko. Since the committee has not considered it, there is no need for the committee to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u101	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished present! The problem of youth employment is one of the most painful problems in our country. In recent years, 16.2 percent of graduates have not been employed in Ukraine since they graduated from higher education institutions. The employment rate among people aged 25-29 is on average 72 percent in Ukraine. Of the 15-24-year-olds, only 1 out of every 3 Ukrainians is employed. The statistics show only a small percentage of graduates of higher and vocational and technical institutions, as unemployable at all. One of the main causes of this state of affairs is the lack of regulation to assist the State in the employment of students and graduates of higher education institutions at the legislative level. There are only individual attempts to allow and integrate such activities as the optional, instead of a system of approaches at the level of public policy so far. The purpose and purpose of this bill is to make it necessary to have structural units in place to promote the employment of students and graduates of higher institutions at the legislative level, which will enable them to determine the status of such departments in the education system and guarantee systematic methodological security for their further and effective functioning in order to overcome the problem of youth unemployment and the special protection of graduates in the field of high school work. In this connection, the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council on 12 March: that the draft law should be rejected in relation to the settlement of these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u102	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u103	and the usual position is groundless. Moreover, I am convinced that the adoption and further implementation of this law will be an important step towards adapting the education system of Ukraine to the leading international standards. Because in higher education institutions in most European countries, such departments promote the employment of students and graduates successfully function and form an intermediate link between educational institutions and employers’ organizations. Other comments and suggestions may be taken into account when preparing for second reading. In view of the above, please support and accept draft Law 9658 as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u104	Lutsky Maksim Georgievich of the committee. Let's sign up for a discussion. Tsushenko, BUT faction. Get ready for Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u105	My colleague, Andrew Pavlovski, please pass it on to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u106	Please, Pavlovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u107	Andrew Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Our faction supports this bill and thanks the author, Oleg Ivanovich Tishchenko. Because the problem is urgent, painful. And really, according to statistics, about 20 percent of the graduates of our Ukrainian U.S.A. are filling an army of unemployed, and they can't find their first job. Therefore, this needs to be regulated by legislation, supporting young people, helping them to take a step in adult life, in the life of a professional, and in the work of a specialist. At the same time, I would like to remind you that one of Viktor Yanukovic's famous electoral promises in his Human Ukraine programme is still unfulfilled that there will be at least 75 percent of the budget space in WUZ. So students have the right to have 75 percent of them in budgetary education. Now we're seeing, on the contrary, a reverse trend that's increasing the number of paid seats. Students pay their money, parents take the last penny for their higher education. And then these kids can't find their first job. Therefore, this issue needs to be regulated in law. And the Fatherland faction will support him. And I would suggest that other colleagues, including those in control of the factions, remember that you made similar promises. Finally, it is not just before the elections to mention ordinary people, to improve their lives throughout the office of power, but not just three months before the elections. Therefore, the “Fatherland ” faction proposes to support the prescribed bill in the first reading and to remember that it is important to keep your promises in mind because they are remembered by people, and they will ask you for an election. They ask, what did you do, what did you promise? That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u108	Paul Mokchan, group of Reforms for the Future. After him, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u109	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, is evidenced by the fact that almost one in three young people today are unemployed. The problem of the first job is particularly acute. That is why the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future endorses the legislative initiative to create in higher educational institutions all forms of ownership of structural units that care about promoting the employment of students and graduates. So what we're doing is we're creating the first site where we're actually going to launch such a powerful mechanism to provide further orders for those professionals that are needed today. And the relationship between higher education institutions and those facilities that will then work with trained professionals will be reliable and assured. Therefore, our faction supports all legislative steps to solve the problem of youth unemployment. And given what you're saying, the MP's Reform for the Future is proposing to support, and everyone else is calling for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u110	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions. He's got Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I will say what I was not expected to say. Of course, this legislative purpose must be supported. The goal of promoting the employment of students and university graduates is certainly worthy of support. But the honourable author of the bill completely ignored and completely rejected all the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. If he hadn't done that, and he had quietly redrafted his bill in line with those recommendations, then it would have been a bill, and so we got a simple declaration. And the point is that the question of employment and the creation of a separate unit was decided long ago by the Higher Education Act. In particular, the Higher Education Act says who is responsible for employment -- it's a specially authorized central authority in the field of education in places, it's the branches themselves. I quote: "The main task of the university: studying the demand for individual specialties in the labour market and promoting the employment of graduates" is outlined in article 22 of the Higher Education Act as one of the main tasks. And yet another vital circumstance. Dear colleagues, in market relations, let's take a look at the quality of our graduates. What are graduates, lawyers, and economists in the labor market? In the city of Kiev, an economist of 85 claimants takes one job as an accountant of 28 applicants. 100 with some lawyers in one vacant place. It is clear that this issue is different and broader, and it needs to be improved in the higher education system itself. And there is a question about the quality of the training of these specialists, especially from employers and, above all, foreign investors, who have serious claims. But here's the problem. A young person cannot work because he has no experience. Clearly, then, this question needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u112	Alexander Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u113	Dear friends, obviously in the first reading, we need to support this bill, we need to develop it in the second reading, it's a very good, reasonable, right initiative. And here we don't have to refer to the legislation that we have, because the weak very legislative base of today and this needs to be strengthened, and above all, to use the best, most developed countries in the world. And if we look at it, the best universities in the world tend to give basic higher education, and then the big businesses themselves, corporations or government authorities tend to be able to upgrade the skills of their employees, and immediately after completing the college, there will be specialized higher, highest courses that provide full expertise, and so that a person with a high general education will have a very high level of qualifications. That's the system we don't have, and obviously we don't have to look for a selection of needs, as much as we really need specialists in one sector or another, for what it takes today, for what it's gonna take in five to ten years. That's exactly what we don't have right now in the country, by the way, it wasn't in the old days, and in the Soviet Union, that is. And this has to be created, this is what's called indicative planning, where we've been far behind. So now we have to do this for our higher education. And it is the responsibility of the State to study today’s forward - looking labour market and prepare for their experts, apparently involving the private sector. Hence, in this regard, this bill must be backed up, worked on second reading, and put into practice, for without it we will not be able to be an advanced, modern state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u114	Question completed. True, the Soviet Union is mentioned here. Not all of you or the absolute majority got diplomas then, and then we had a different problem than not going to work, because everyone had to work after they finished. And soon we're going to be a country with a lot of higher education, but this higher education, unfortunately, doesn't do anything because there's no work. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u115	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The problem that is currently being discussed in this bill is extremely relevant. Unemployment is a disgusting phenomenon at all. But when a person with a diploma is unemployed, a young person, it's disgusting in a square or a cube. Note the figures that are echoing today in the Explanatory Note. In 2010, among the 879,000 citizens who were in charge of employment centres, 558, almost 60,000 were graduates of higher education institutions and 40,000 were graduates of vocational and technical schools. Today’s university graduate can only dream of the situation that Soviet graduates had when they received more than a diploma when they received more than just a job assignment and received a job security system. So the faction of the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the first reading, a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to promote the employment of students and graduates of higher education institutions. [[Registration number 9658]] [[12:07:19]] For-161 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, there's a break to 12 o'clock in 37 minutes. Faction leaders, please come to the Head of the Supreme Council for the Conciliation Council. After the break, we will consider the draft Law amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Health Protection. [[Registration number 9743]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We're continuing the meeting. We are considering a draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law. [[on the restructuring of health facilities]] [[Registration number 9743]] Yes, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, a reporter, asks for a summary of the procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:37:59]] For 139 The decision is not supported. Come back? Who's to say?? Yeah, I'm putting it to a vote, because, obviously, after a break, we don't always have enough creative power. There is a proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'd like to support you. Vote. [[12:38:31]] For 213 Decision taken. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, our agreement to consider the bill after a reduced procedure is to demonstrate that we want to work together to resolve the serious health problem that exists today in the health care system and which has arisen in connection with what is called a medical experiment. You know that in the last year the process of so - called optimisation of health facilities has been actively carried out. In many regions, active officials who want to show that they are correctly following the direction of the State have been so optimized that in some rural areas it is necessary to get to the hospital, because they have reduced the number of hospitals, field homes, in some cases, and the FAPs that they have to wait a few days or half a day to get to a hospital where there is a hospital. In our time -- and I, Andry Kozemiakin, Mikola Martinko, Arsenij Yatsenuk, and other deputies -- have suggested that we analyze how these experiments work in four areas. Unfortunately, the committee does not support us. I think we should go back to this topic and systematically analyze what the experiment that it produced in the system of optimizing the real reduction of health facilities is. No wonder, by the way, yesterday the President said that he had information about problems, especially in rural areas, in order to respond quickly to people's challenges, and he suggested or gave the government a task to ensure that, by European standards, the ambulance did not respond for more than 10 minutes to the hospital's challenge and 20 minutes to the rural patient's challenge. I figured, if you go through an optimized network, you have to have quick help going on average in the city at 200 kilometers and in the village at 300 kilometers an hour because the distance between those optimized facilities has grown so much that it's impossible in principle to do that. What do we propose with Sergei Shevchuk? Use the law on preschool education, and don't upset the population when it comes to that question, ask the local community's agreement in the village by way of assemblies, in the city by referendum. [[villages]] So if the community thinks they have an extra hospital and we have to go to a new hospital where there's normal diagnostics, the community will always support that. If the doctors are employed, it will not cause conflict. Then we do not submit both health authorities and the local community, for there is a consensus that cutting down or optimizing health facilities provides quality health care, and I do not create or disrupt the population. I'd like to support this bill. And I think that in this way the reform of health care by the consent of citizens has been more beneficial than a reform of health care that is not supported by the community.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u119	Of course, the community will never shut down any institution, that's right. Bachelor Tetian. None. Who's from the committee? None. Well, I don't have a note about it, but. Please, Grigorovitch, two minutes away from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u120	Health Committee, Lilia Grigorovich Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Subjectively, my position coincides with that of the drafters of the bill. But I have to publish the committee's position. It's the next one. Unfortunately, the state of affairs of the committee has not received an expert opinion from the Chief Expert Office on the bill. Without this conclusion, the bill was not considered on the committee, and the committee would like to postpone the consideration of the bill until we receive the expert opinion of the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council. In addition, the system or results of pilot projects and health - care reformers may need some special parliamentary hearing or other form of analytics that we can carry out in order to really reconcile all the things that the drafters indicate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u121	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. The situation is that unfortunately, or fortunately, the Conciliation Council has been asked the question of what the month has passed, and the authors and factions have insisted on reviewing the bill. And you know the rule of the Rules: If there is no committee decision within a month, the author has the right to insist on it. And that's why we put it in the agenda. Please sign up for a discussion. Please, Lemza, "BUT is Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u122	Please pass it on to Chevchuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u123	Sergei Shevchuk. Prepare Soroczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to say for the scientific conclusion. If you think it gives either a positive or a negative conclusion and all, you are wrong. Science-experts may not be able to draw any conclusions, and that's even worse than negative, because then there's a formal reason not to look at them on the committee. This is usually the case with the opposition bills. Now it's about the bill. As you know, the Ukrainian authorities often talk about health reform, are shown as an example of success, evidently there is nothing better to show for it. Although, seriously, in a situation where the fourth minister of health, the third chief public health doctor, is talking about some success, it is absurd. And the fact that, at least last, President Yanukovic's discovery at the prenatal centre in Kirovograd. Opened up pompously, later he didn't work at all for a couple of months, then worked, and when they calculated how much government and sponsoring money was spent on one patient, it turned out to be ten times more than in Europe. But it's such a thing, it's built, it's going to stay human. It is much worse when the authorities close down medical facilities and dozens of them. And in this case, Ukrainian citizens are simply deprived of access to primary health care. And that's why the drafters proposed this mechanism for any closure, reorganization, optimization, and today it's the same thing, by the agreement of the territorial community. And this is not our invention, this is the requirement of the European Charter for Local Self-Government. I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified this charter in 1997. And it clearly states that public health is the exclusive competence of local authorities, and that these powers of local self - government should be complete and exclusive and cannot be revoked or restricted by another central or regional authority. I ask you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u125	Soroczynska will pass it on to Kuril, please. Get ready for Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u126	Dear National Deputies! The MP's “Reforms for the Future” agree on the idea of establishing a mandatory agreement between the territorial communities on the restructuring or liquidation of health facilities. To our conviction, when these issues are resolved, the community must have a significant influence on authority. What is involved in today’s experiment with the so - called optimisation of health facilities is that optimization is simply to close down either hospitals, or FAPs, or hospitals. In the Luhansk region, for example, the Crimean region fell into this experiment. So in an area where more than 45,000 people are living today, the maternity ward has been closed down in the district hospitals, the trauma station closed, and the children’s clinic is now closed. And now we're going to have to drive the babies somewhere else over 60 or 70 kilometers. And who needs such optimism, and who needs such reform? So we're really ready to support this bill, considering the realities of life. Sadly, however, this bill does not prescribe mechanisms for the implementation of this agreement. I don't think it's that hard. Therefore, the authors of the bill should, after first reading, if it, God willing, really consider all these mechanisms as to how the community should consent and how this should be done. In general, once again, our parliamentary group supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u127	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Get ready. He's handing it over to Leschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! We also support this extremely important bill. It is short, but it meets the requirements of today. And a good example is that there was a bill that wasn't accepted to exclude from this experiment of the Donetsk region, which was proposed by a party of communists. Yesterday, in the city of Pavlovgrad, in Dnipropetrovska, there was a meeting of the Chernobylites. And one of the basic requirements of rallying was that Dniproperty should also be excluded from the experiment. Because it is not a reform, it is a measure of bringing health into line with the economic powers, the economic capabilities of the State. Economic requirements are at the forefront of this, that is to say, what can be done and what costs it can be kept. I received an answer to my request today from the head of the Volin district government, who gave me a cynical response to the fact that we are conducting this reform with the fact that we are in this economical and economical position, 300,000 of the economy, for which we will use, perhaps, the bribes that come with the purchase of equipment. And it's surprising that not only is the opinion of a community taken into account, but generally the opinion of society. As early as last spring, I registered a bill for parliamentary hearings on health reform, which I did not listen to. Now it's on the committee level. Ministers change very quickly, even if they can't avoid it. How reform can be carried out when the minister cannot grasp the material he is and who simply follows the instructions. The Ministry of Health is not a reform center, the reform center is the President's Administration and you know who is behind it and who is behind it. That's why we support this bill in the first reading, even if it could be accepted in my opinion and completely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u129	Thank you, Vladimir Leschenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u130	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! At last, the representatives of the "BUT" Fatherland came to their senses before the elections, and during their stay in power, they watched calmly as the rural district hospitals, FAPs, pharmacies and no one thought to ask the villagers whether they agreed? During Soviet times, the state cared for each of its citizens. So virtually every village had a feldsher. The district hospitals were located in such a way that the villagers were treated alongside the home, and the quality of the treatment was excellent. People were also treated for free, and the drugs cost a penny. Rural health workers were provided with normal wages, housing, housing benefits. During the bourgeois period, rural medicine has in most cases been destroyed or put into poverty. Thus, hundreds of thousands of rural people are living out of their lives because of small but run - down diseases at an early age. In this regard, health care facilities that remain in the countryside must be preserved. The Communist faction will definitely support the offer so that they will not be closed without the consent of the villagers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u131	Please, one minute, Victor Corge, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u132	Victor Corge, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, a very serious question is really being raised. But what I would like to say is that unlike the previous Bronze movements that the previous authorities have carried out, today changes are made on the basis of the legislation of a worked, complete package of laws. I would like to stress by working in the Vinnitsk region and by helping to implement the reform, I can say that everything is done in a very transparent manner, taking into account the opinion of the community. But there are professional questions, and we need to understand that a colleague, for example, spoke, said that they had closed their doors. Well, there can't be a maternity home today that takes 20, 30, 50 births a year. These are professional questions. And I emphasize, nothing closes, functions change. The clinic can turn into the center of primary health care and all that. FAPs are developing. The equipment's going to the clinic. This year, the state allocated an additional 400 million dollars. Dear colleagues, this is it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u133	Yes, there has been a violation of the Constitution. So please, Carmazin, more and more. All the factions have come forward, we'll vote. There's a violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable national MPs, those who remember the adoption of the Constitution, remember that in article 49 of the Constitution we wrote down one norm. And I'm proud of the fact that it was me who insisted on accepting it -- "the existing network of such institutions cannot be reduced." Because of this, here's the entry that is now, "optimization, reorganization or elimination of municipal institutions," the word "elimination" has to be deleted altogether. Because this is contrary to the Constitution. And you remember how we took it, that's exactly what I insisted on, because back then, in Odessa, we were selling a hospital called District Clinic No2, and it used to be called Okomowska. As a result, neither the hospital nor many others were cut short. Me too. The law has to be passed. But here you have to write without liquidation and the word "optimisation" also obviously needs to be cleaned up. Because the dictionary says it's a purely mathematical term called finding the maximum or the minimum. Obviously, it is not entirely for this law. So it's about reorganization, and only it's about reorganization. And the law should be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention, Reverend Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u135	Thank you. I am absolutely in solidarity with one of the authors of the Constitution, who is included by Yuri Anatoliyovich, who is really the Constitution, why also write laws. Sadly, though, there is a need to protect health institutions. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Health Protection (reorganization of health facilities) (registration number 9743). Please vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:56:29]] For 168 Not supported. Factions: The Party of the Regions did not vote, BUT 91, Our Ukraine 30, Communist 25, The People's Party did not vote, Reforms 19, non-fractional 3. Perhaps respectable colleagues, given that the Constitution is to be taken into account, should be sent to further the subject of the legislative initiative. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:57:11]] For-173 It didn't. In factions, the same, dear colleagues, let's not waste time. Overruled, unfortunately. Yes, the draft Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Recruitment and Requisition of Peni from Ukrainian Citizens in the event that payments for residential and utility services are not made in a timely manner. [[Registration number 9715]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:57:54]] For 207 Supported. The situation is the same, the committee has not considered it, but since it's the 16th of January bill, then the author insisted on the faction that we should look at it. Please, Jacinjak Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u136	The honourable members of Parliament, in the last two years of the House-Communication Party, have undergone incredible reforms as well as reforms throughout the country. The first reform of the Party of the Regions took place when they allowed the private property of citizens to be collected for housing and utility debts. And you can see this reform every day on TV when the poor, the poor and the poor come to the house by court and broadcast 20-year-old televisions. The second reform of the Party of the Regions took place when it allowed it to take a penny for residential services. I'll give you a quick stat. In the last year, housing and utilities have increased by 50 percent. One household, i.e. the owner of a special account, pays on average 800 dollars per month of residential services. The State Committee of Statistics says that a third of Ukrainians have to pay half their income to pay for residential services. And this is in spite of the fact that this authority and the Party of Regions owed the Ukrainians about 1 billion dollars of income debt according to statistics. This bill provides for the introduction of a moratorium on pension payments for residential services until President Yanukovic and the Party of Regions start to repay debts to Ukrainians on social payments, on aid and on wages that make up billions of dollars. Next. As for the debt already set up for 2011, the law proposes that the amount of money in the form of foam be written down for Ukrainian citizens, and that what has already been paid in the form of foam is included in the apartment's salary and in the payment for residential services for future periods. Until then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u137	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u138	The state has no right to withdraw billions from poor Ukrainians for the private energy companies they control. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u139	Please sign up for the performance. Andrew Pavlovsky. I'm sorry, the committee hasn't considered it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u140	Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u141	Now, Andrew, I'm sorry. I emphasize again, I can give you my word, but I said the committee wasn't looking, so the committee. The message of the day reads: Responsible but not coconspirator, and these are completely different things. Please, Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u142	Andrey Pavlovsky's Yulia Timoshenko Block is Fatherland. Please hand over Yuri Odarchenk to the People's Deputy of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u143	Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, there was a great deal of trouble in Ukraine in 2010. Viktor Janukovic took power in Ukraine and was declared illegally by the President. After that, contrary to the will of the electorate, the Cabinet of Ministers of Yulia Timoshenko was disbanded, and the so - called team of professionals came to power. The promised improvement of life is no longer happening in 2010 or 2011 or 2012. On the contrary, only friends of Viktor Yanukovic have improved their lives. And at that time, the lives of Ukrainian citizens are being cataclysmicly reduced and plunged into complete poverty. Once again, debt from wages, scholarships, and pensions came into existence. The economy of the country is rapidly returning to the early 1990s. Instead of the rule of law and law, we have the right to power and the right to Korea. When a state is unable to pay money to its citizens, it does not have the right to impose sanctions for failing to meet its obligations to its citizens. People don't pay utility bills because they're bad, they just stand up for the choice: pay for utilities or feed their children. And a normal person feels that feeding the family is more important than feeding Firthash and Ahmedov. And people just don't have money because of your reforms, because every day you destroy our economy and destroy our state. The bill will temporarily halt pensions for residential services as soon as the government removes debts on salaries, scholarships and pensions as soon as it is settled with Afghans and black people. At that time, the law will automatically lose its validity. Dear colleagues, the "BUT" faction will vote in favour of the legislative initiative, although we understand that Chechtev will now give the command and you will, at the stroke of it, train most thoughtlessly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u145	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u146	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! During the "orange" period, the pay debt was common even when the bill's author was a member of the government. Nothing has changed since the change of power. So shame on the bourgeois state not to pay off businesses and any form of property, including government-made money. And how can people survive? How can you raise your children? And how can we study them? How can you heal? How do you finally keep your apartment? It would seem that this is the case of the entire presidential vertical, the government structures, the prosecutor's office, but the visa is there now. The government cannot force unconscionable business owners to give their dues to the people because they are their own. Ukraine's company has been implementing in practice for two years now in all regions of Ukraine a party project called Robota. Salary. Protection." In many areas, we have managed to force managers to pay their employees' salaries, but Ukraine's debt remains significant, so the legislative initiative to ban citizens' pensions for residential services is our constant demand, the communists, the Communist faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u148	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! A very serious bill, proposed despite its only 5 articles on the text. It is absolutely true that the author was used only in the official data of the State. And unofficial data, Arsenius Petrovich, more than three times! You didn't say that they're forcing people not to fill in today or to show off their debt on wages. That's the question today. So it's not just a matter of government today, it's a question to the Human Rights Council, which we're going to choose tomorrow. And what is being done today is that an agent of the government is being elected to this office is not normal. In fact, over two billion dollars today is owed money to people on wages. If there is evidence that they are in debt, Arsenius Yatzenyuk’s proposal is absolutely correct that, as he was owed, he does not pay. And the very right question in article 3 is that the amount of unpaid pennies for late payment of rents and rents for residential services to be paid to Ukrainian citizens for the amount of debt that was formed on January 1st should be written off, that's absolutely correct. Now, let's see, this authority has promised to improve life today. Initially, in 2010, 70 percent of the salary was raised, 50 percent last year and 120 percent in total, this improvement was allowed. Because of this, we need to adopt this law in the first reading, there are some comments about the mechanism of implementation, but this is already a question of second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u149	Now, please, from the Hara faction, one minute and then a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, when speaking without politics and populism, first, there is no foam at all today, since the law does not set the size and manner of the accrual. Second, there are no pensions and scholarships in the project today. Third. Salaries payable as at 1 January 2012 amounted to 970 million and public debt to the public service providers to 11.8 billion. Number four, why are we breaking parity among payers? What is the responsibility of those who pay in full and on time? And the fifth, the bill is incapacitated and will not work, so I suggest we not accept it as unnecessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u151	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u152	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, sounded so dirty to the Party of the Regions. But we are not surprised, it is once again emphasized by the lack of culture, the lack of tact, the lack of education. What kind of culture could it be? If as one of your leaders said that seven out of eight million people bought seats, picked up those pedophiles, the killers, the culture here didn't smell. But there's a second option, and I understand you're afraid there's gonna be a court decision that's probably gonna stop you from running around the county and on the lists, and you're gonna get a 50 on the list. And today 153 went to BUTO, about 70 "Our Ukraine". There's a five-by-five contest, and they want to squeeze. That's why hysteria is understandable, and that's because you threw the Royal out of the faction, you're already biting like spiders in a bank. Well, come on, good people! Surrender!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u153	I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on temporary banning the registration and withdrawal of Peni from Ukrainian citizens in case of late payments for residential services. [[Registration number 9715]] Please vote. [[13:10:31]] For-141 Factions: The Party of Regions did not vote, BUT 89, "Our Ukraine – 22, the Communists – 25, "The People's Party" – did not vote, "Reforms" – 1, non-fractional – 4. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the principles and procedures for the establishment of food, non-food and services, the calculation and approval of the subsistence minimum]] [[Registration number 9717]] The same situation: The committee did not consider it, but it had been a month since January 16. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:11:31]] For 212 Supported. Andrew Pavlovsky, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u154	Andrey Pavlowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. Respectable compatriots! You and I understand and we are witnessing that the social standards in the budget for this year are artificially and fundamentally under-appreciated. Since the beginning of the year, the minimum pension will only increase by 62 bracelets and the minimum wage will be only 61. And compare this with the rising prices of utilities, food, and essentials. So the last social initiatives of power look, well, just pathetic. And the methods of defining these social standards and the basic social standard of living minimum are ridiculous. I'll tell you that according to these methods, Azarov's living minimum is 250 grams of potatoes, 106 grams of bread, 10 grams of pasta, 5 grams of Greek, 5 grams of sala and 25 grams of sausage. Journalists from one of the TV channels tried to survive on this subsistence minimum. And what you know, they only had enough power for two weeks. If only our high - ranking crews, beginning with Yanukovich, from Azarov, would try to live on the subsistence minimum they impose on our citizens. And by the way, this livelihood minimum hasn't changed, the way it's been calculated since the last century. So the "Fatherland" opposition suggests that living minimum be determined by 5 years now and every year. This would allow you to take into account the consumer price index and allow you to more fairly calculate all other social assistance through a subsistence minimum. I propose to support this bill, and this will be a test of how you want to support the initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u155	Let's sign up for the performance. Please, Vladimir Leschenko, the Communist faction. Get ready for Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u156	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Again, I stress that the drafters did nothing about this when they were in power. During the formation of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012, the Communist faction proposed a review of the structure of the consumer basket to determine the size of the subsistence minimum, since it was formed 10 years ago. And it actually contains 250 grams of potatoes, 100 grams of bread, 5 grams of fat, half of eggs, and so forth. But the budget committee, which is dominated by representatives of the bourgeois clans, as well as the government of capitalist ministers, did not support this proposal. Those who are offering to index the minimum of living before the next election today have also not been supported in principle before. Because it's impossible for people who get income at a minimum of living to live at that cost. But what should we do, then, to the national deputies of Ukraine? Even though our initiatives have not been supported before, a faction of Communists will vote in favour of this bill because the introduction of the index of living minimum is in the interest of the common people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u157	Tsushenko, BUT faction. Get Harry ready, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u158	Adam Ivanovich! Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u159	Bondarenko Volodymira
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u160	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko Everyone in this room probably remembers me coming out here twice with a special basket, it's not the consumer basket that we're talking about, the basket today, and it was a food basket. I've shown an increase of 2, 3, 4, and 8 times the price of individual products over a short period of time. It wasn't just about Greek, it was about the very favorite products of today's Prime Minister, especially cabbage. He loves cabbage in Ukraine and some other living organisms there. So I want to say that people love her too. And thanks to our return to this question today, we can think that the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens survive only at the expense of the slave labor offered by Mikola Janović for all peasants to take shovels and dig. You'll forgive me, but today the whole world is a civilized, European world, all other civilized countries, living each and every one of them working in their profession, making money to buy and dress and pay for community services and legal services and all that. Our village survives because, as slaves, holding a cow, a chicken, a duck, smelling in that city, they have no opportunity to lift their heads up, at least once to go anywhere and so forth. And you today, the party that governs everyone in this country, will not give a single vote to view this consumer basket, so that people can understand who today is giving them the opportunity to continue to communicate those things that have been left behind since the last few years, who are giving them the opportunity today, forgive me, buy some products or goods. You, dear friends, are writing down 24 billion debts in your Oblenergo, you're chasing several state budgets, every year offshore in Cyprus, because the communists don't vote, they don't give any votes to close this offshore zone. Therefore, please consider who the electorate is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u161	Basil Hara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, it must be understood that such a subsistence minimum is a social condition. In the European Union, wages, minimum wage and so on, consists of 20-30 subsistence minimums, and we are stuck with some absolute value, that is to be understood. The substance of the proposal. First. Review the set of goods, products, services at least once a year. Second. The subsistence minimum is based on the consumer price index and so on. I'll answer the second question right away. It is today regulated by legislation, the annual subsistence minimum is determined on the basis of its size, plus the projected inflation index. It is not enough that its indexation is also included in the main budget lines for 2012. With regard to the first proposal, every year people are considering good people, it is important to understand that the subsistence minimum is the conditional standard on which they work, which is considered by the scientific and social council, a long procedure. He approves it and further approves it by the Cabinet of Ministers. Second. The calculation of the subsistence minimum does not apply to regulation at the legislative level, see the Living Minimum Act. Last thing I wanted to say is that at a meeting of the committee, you often have to consider such issues with you. And in one of the last decisions we made, not to consider or propose such populist laws a year ago, it is offensive that a year ago this public scientific council approved the list of products, goods and services -- extended it. And it is necessary to request from the Cabinet of Ministers his claim that the Committee, in fact, Pavlovsky knows this, has also voted, taken a decision and forwarded its proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers to approve the existing one. That's why you're a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u163	Yes, please, one minute, Veziewski of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u164	Vladimir Vyezivsky "Our Ukraine". After the president announced the social initiatives, he launched an electoral campaign in Ukraine, which is why these bills, which are adopted in the session hall or those that are also proposed, can be considered exclusively as pre-election initiatives. We're in front of the citizens and this authority, and the last in debt. It should be said that not five years, but ten years, both of them, and they changed that standard. If there are those initiatives, and if at least a little bit of fate in those Presidential initiatives is true, you can totally agree with Paulowski's proposal, which says, "Let's not give the committee as equal as we did," it was said in advance to the Cabinet of Ministers, and let's do it at the level of legislative initiatives, take this initiative and commit the government to do it every year, as opposed to how they didn't do it before. Let us make this decision, and it will be fair and frank before the citizens and before the authorities we had, we must be responsible for them, so let us make them work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u165	Chaplain, one minute, group.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u166	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you know, previous speakers have spoken and proved both the pros and cons of the bill. But the main thing is not to discuss it here, but why are we all so poor? Why are Ukraine so poor in our country today? Why do Ukrainians not understand how to live to the end of their wages by the end of this month? It can be said that this is regulated by law or is not regulated by law, by law, or by law, either considered every five years, or every three years. But you have to put a dot on this. And if we need to adopt a law that regulates this issue once a year, and we're going to make these decisions once a year, and the minimum of living is actually going to be tied to the economic situation of Ukraine, then there's no policy here. We'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u167	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the principles and procedures for the establishment of food, non-food and services, the calculation and approval of the subsistence minimum]] [[Registration number 9717]] Please vote. [[13:23:38]] For-140. The factions. The law is rejected. The Party of the Regions did not vote, "Fatherland" 94, "Our Ukraine" 12, the Communists 25, the People's Party did not vote, the Reforms 5, the non-fractionals four. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Collection and Accounting for a General Compulsory State Social Insurance" on the reduction of the single premium rates for natural persons who are entrepreneurs. [[Registration number 9765]] The same situation was not considered by the committee. I'm proposing a reduced procedure, please vote. [[13:24:35]] For 203 Supported. Please, Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I propose to your attention the draft Act amending the Law on the collection and accounting of a single contribution to compulsory public social insurance. The purpose of the bill is to reduce the single social contribution. You and I sometimes pass laws that cannot be enforced. The Single Social Contribution Act entered into force on 1 January 2011. Since then, more than 200,000 enterprises have closed down. More than 200,000 enterprises were forced either to eliminate their activities or to go into the shadows. The people who were thrown into the streets in the 1990s created their own jobs, secured their own jobs and their families, paid their wages today, were unable to pay the single social contribution required of them today. Therefore, my proposal to listen to people's views is to consider one of the proposals for popular reform. We will not be able to change the economic situation in the country as long as there are taxes that rob people today and prevent people from creating jobs that prevent people from providing themselves. Therefore, I propose to reduce the rate of a single social contribution twice, to allow people to work properly, to pay taxes normally, to pay wages and to develop their case. At the very least, the trend towards economic tensions, job cuts, the elimination of small and medium-sized businesses will continue. Therefore, I ask you to support this bill, to preserve hundreds of thousands of jobs in Ukraine and to protect the people of Ukraine today from the nightmare that a single social contribution has become to them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u169	Let's sign up for the performance. Alexander Stoyan, Party of Regions. Get ready for Tishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, in principle, it's not a bad idea to support small, medium-sized businesses to enable them to work properly. But I'd like to ask Mrs. Queen if she'd figured out the options. What is the only social contribution? It consists of four contributions. The pension contribution to cut in half, doesn't that mean we have to either cut people's pensions by half, or re-invent funds from the government budget. The second point is the problem of employment, unemployment. From there people who do not have a job today receive unemployment benefits. If we don't fill this unemployment fund, where do we get the money to pay the unemployed, to retrain the people, and so forth? The third fund is after a temporary loss of work, you know. It's the hospital, it's the funeral, it's the baby care and stuff. So if you follow this scheme, yeah, maybe, really, small businesses and medium-sized enterprises, they're going to be a little bit easier because that's about 40 percent of the payroll fund. But with that kind of service, if we do good for small and medium-sized businesses, will we not force all social benefits at all, millions of people will be impoverished? So I'd like to hear it at the end, and I specifically call it Mrs. Royal's last name so that she can speak. Give financial justification as your proposals to reduce by twofold the sole social contribution will be reflected in the social funds and social benefits that millions of our fellow countrymen receive. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u171	Tishenko, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u172	Please pass the word to Hanushtak Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u173	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, well, of course it's a very beautiful project, but I'm-I'm a physics specialist. I can imagine if the laws of physics were to vote right here in the hall, whatever it was. Social contributions are calculated out of understanding what payments should be when a person becomes a pensioner. And this figure that stands there, 32, 36, it comes out of the realization that the average person who lives and works during an active life, the time he lives on a pension, is provided with exactly that amount, that's the average approach. And macroeconomic indicators should be sustained. One thing to remember as a youth is that he is not inclined to think about his old age. That is why the state’s systems of mandatory thinking about its old age have been put in place. Because if we start ignoring laws and physics, mathematics, and similar objective laws like that, we will destroy the country as such. Of course, pension legislation requires radical change. And what we have here is that we have voted these laws, and I'm going to say frankly, gang laws with a stockpiling fund, because all the countries that introduced them eventually felt what it was. And that's something to change radically. We need to put in place a normal system that predicts that a person is interested in protecting his pension and that his work, active work during his life, will then go into retirement, because right now we have a situation that is not working, which then requires the state to fund him. You can't do that, you can't do that. And in general, you have to make such a proposal plan so that they understand the average person who is normal. Well, you can't treat people like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u175	Please, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I want to thank Natalia Royal for making the right offer. But, Mrs. Natalia, you had to tell me what's going on today with people who have made a little bit of money. I want government officials to know that people are leaving, taking money away, and going to other countries. Talk to ambassadors from other countries, they will tell you that in some countries the number of visa applications has increased by 40 times. It's not the worst people leave, it's our people leaving. Because of this, it is only about people who provide work on their own, that is to say, they are engaged in an independent profession: either scientific, or literary, or artistic, or teaching, medical, including legal practice. As a result, to reduce the amount of a single contribution to a general government social insurance by twofold means to interest them in self-sustainment. Well, isn't it better that nothing is going to happen? Is it better that people just leave? Obviously not better. Because of this, I can see in these numbers, which are very difficult to calculate and do the groundwork that you want, but this is what the government has to do, and the government has every bill, the Ministry of Finance is extremely large, has to prepare a justification: what in this situation and what in this situation? Because of this, I think this is one way to protect people in today's situation, and this needs to be supported in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u177	A replica? I didn't hear your name. Who? And Easy protects you. Please, Royal, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u178	Thank you. I'm grateful to everyone who protects us. Fight and fight. And to my colleague from the Party of the Regions, I want to say that the reasons he was talking about today are the state of people, the level of income, the standard of living. In the two years you've been in power, the standard of living has been reduced twice. People are twice as poor. Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been closed down in the country. Today, enterprises are being shut down, and industry is closing down. The country is on the verge of default, and you're talking about some other justification! Today, one reason is to let people work quietly, create jobs quietly, and stop making fun of them. Therefore, I would like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u179	We'll see how they heard you. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of a national MP, because the committee hasn't considered it. The conclusion of the Chief Research Administration is to reject the bill. The proposal of the National MP is to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[Registration number 9765]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:35:35]] For-23 The record today is 23 votes. The factions, please. The vote was "BUT" – 13, "Our Ukraine" – 8 and non-fractional – 2. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to repeal the requirements of the original documents for natural persons entrepreneurs who have chosen a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting. [[Registration number 9504]] The committee didn't consider it. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:36:27]] For 193 Supported. Please, Natala Královska is the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, 23 votes in favour of the previous bill is an assessment of the current Parliament. Here are 23 deputies coming to the new parliament, and all the rest when you come to your major districts, when you look people in the eye, you'll never get their support, because today's evaluation is not about politics, not MPs, not buttons in this room. Today, the real assessment of our work is made by people who see everything, know everything and understand everything. They understand why you're taking the last penny from them today, taking jobs from them, and raising taxes on them, why you're passing laws that can't be implemented, and you're making people criminals. I am now proposing a bill, a bill that repeals documents that people have never produced. You have enacted the law and today you demand the people's primary documents for three years of their work. The law entered into force only on 1 January, that is, in two years, people have never had these documents and will never be able to provide them. You've made hundreds of thousands of people, and this is all small business automatically criminals just to further increase the corruption pressure to continue robbing the economy and robbing these people. So I'm asking you to think, you all go to the county, you all go to the people and look them in the eye. Think about it and break an unfulfilled rule, give people the opportunity to work, and do not interfere. You're not helping them, so don't get in the way. Today, give small and medium-sized business opportunities to your support, without help, and in spite of today's development and building a new economy, give those who have not left our country an opportunity to develop and work properly, those who believe in our country today. I ask that this bill be supported and that the primary documentation for small businesses be revoked, that people be allowed to live in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u181	Let's sign up for the performance. Chaplain, behind him is Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, I will immediately say that when we discuss this bill, we unanimously decided to support it under any circumstances. What I'm trying to say is that the basis for this is the following. Most of my friends who live in Odessa, I go abroad. They go abroad to either work there or just live there. Because running a business here at the level of the simplified system today is pretty hard. As a result, let us do something to rob us of this stream that is expanding and expanding. It's not like lunch anymore, it's like a river. Let's do this as follows, let's deprive the tax authorities of the right to demand the mandatory provision of quarterly or annual primary documents. Because I support the speakers, no one has ever led them. This contradicts the very essence of the simplified tax system when they pay for the turnover they had, that is, the implementation they had. So as a result, why were we making it difficult for us to conduct a small business in general today? It's all about him. Let's take this bill, no matter what. There's no politics here. Let us unite with him, and the majority, and the minority, regardless of who loves or does not love here. And, lady, let's take the first step to meet our colleagues, friends, citizens, who are finally making ends meet today, because most of the state has not created jobs for them. And today we've been looking at a bill to support the first job, and Paul Mikhailovich Movchan was speaking from the group, so imagine, even after completing the college, he can't get a job because he's nowhere and he's going to the market. And he gets this testimony, and he pays taxes according to the law in force. He's a young man, he's here! – give me a document you'll never have. We'll vote, we call on everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u183	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what is being done today, what authorities do with people in places, especially tax authorities. When they come to check in three months, they pick up documents or search for documents within three years. Now in view of the change in the management of the Ministry of Finance, the truth is that this is the previous minister of finance, and the tax authorities have clearly been instructed: any check is a fine of 55,000 dollars. Darling, I would like to emphasize. That's the minimum. Now this other test has a sum of 110 thousand. Right, you see, you know, you're talking to voters. What does that say, good people? This suggests that not only is corruption a component of the State’s spending, but this fine does not go in the taxpayer’s pocket. The taxpayer's pocket goes from $10,000 to $15,000, not a penny. That's plus that's 110,000. That's what these people are up to today. Whether or not the Royal Bill, which saw a contradiction between article 296 of the Tax Code, articles 16, 44, 85 in income accounting and the obligation of taxpayers to have a primary financial document. Absolutely right, there are contradictions, and it has to be used for the benefit of people. In principle, even without these changes, it should be used. But for our taxpayer, you have to write three times, and you have to say stop walking, because you're 60,000, you have to be reduced now exactly 10 times, and nothing is going to change. As a result, the law must be adopted in the first reading, and it must be put to good use as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u185	One minute, Hanustak, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u186	Gentlemen, no one would mind stepping up tax revenue somehow. But I read what the law says: to submit written requirements to the supervisory authorities for income, expenditure, and other indicators related to the definition of tax duties. Then came the original documents. Thus, it is suggested that this rule should be removed with regard to single - tax payers. At the same time, we have a standard that tells us who the payers are, that is, in order to determine their size, where this tax can be applied or not, we really need to account for income and expenditure. So if we're talking about original documents, we can agree, but if we're talking about current documents, I'm sorry, but we have to lead because we shouldn't have some kind of activity, and we don't know what we're talking about. This is the income of the local budgets, which is the single tax, this is the income of the local budgets, this is the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u187	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u188	So let's actually send this project back to work, because it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u189	Canned, for moral damage, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u190	The greatest moral damage, venerable Adam Ivanovich, is caused to the Ukrainian people by our antinational actions, our scheming, and our ridicule. I understand why Mr. Chechetov laughs, the monthly salary, the service car rides, the state has assistants. And each one of you has it. Do those entrepreneurs have what you have? When was the last time you went to the market, when you lived for 850 bucks? When was the last time you, the parasites, were skinned? And you're sitting here laughing at the people, over these gray, poor, miserable people that you brought to the pen? And now instead of eliminating two thirds of taxes, giving them cheap loans, protecting the internal market, you're just protecting the oligarchs. And the holes in your budget are made at the expense of millions of ordinary people, at the expense of entrepreneurs. And your oligarchs are hiding their money. And you're sitting there laughing. You won't have long to laugh!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u191	Here comes the Radical Party. Please, Chechetov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u192	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, I do not think the previous speaker will die out of modesty. I think if he, one of the rangers who drives six homicide guards, sells if he reduces the number of posters across Ukraine at least twice, I think it's three areas of retirement to close months by five. That is why I call for modesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u193	I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the first reading, the Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine to repeal the requirements of the original documents of natural persons entrepreneurs who have chosen a simplified system of accounting and reporting taxation. [[Registration number 9504]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:47:31]] For-54 Overruled. The factions. The party of regions did not vote, "BUT" – 24, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 8, Communists, the People's Party did not vote, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 3. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on actual checks]] [[Registration number 9549]] Neither did the committee, but on December 7th it arrived. There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:48:21]] For-187 Supported. Please, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, you did not vote on two bills before that. These are two bills written by people throughout the country, held thousands of meetings, thousands of meetings and thousands of people signed under these laws. I am now reporting a third bill, a bill of popular reform, where the goal is to protect the economy, to enable people to work, to enable people to get a normal salary, to upgrade businesses, to invest money in our country. You understand very well that business is now becoming a hostage to politics, and people are now being held hostage to politicians. And if we don't introduce a moratorium on checks, if we don't allow business to survive this year, develop and be sure of tomorrow, then after the elections, people will have to be placed in the Red Book -- people who create jobs, people who are still able to get paid today. Stop making fun of people — experiment, experience, and patience. You're overthrowing the third law. Moratorium for verification, cancellation of primary documentation and cancellation, and revision of a single social contribution. These are three main laws that will allow people today to develop, live and receive wages. These are the three basic laws of popular reform. By ignoring these laws today while I report them here, you provoke people to come under the walls of Parliament. Come on the walls of Parliament and force you to pass those laws. Because this is the foundation of the country's economic development today, the basis for job development, stable wages, industry and production. Think about it! And think about the future, not today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u195	Sign up for the show. Tishenko, the BUT faction. Asshole's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u196	Oleg Tishchenko, Faction of the Fatherland, Party of the Fatherland. This bill must be supported, for it takes some time to adapt our entrepreneurs to the new Tax Code. Even as a national MP, I can't fill out a declaration for a few months now, because it's a very misunderstood formula for how to do that. And for entrepreneurs, it's twice as complicated as it is. Our faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u197	Gennady Bully. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u198	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Our MP group has always stood in the defense of entrepreneurs in Ukraine. Because we realize that today the state is unfortunately unable to provide people with jobs. And such an area of the Ukrainian people as entrepreneurs, they don't really just provide themselves, they provide jobs for other people. This bill is aimed at temporarily limiting the conduct by tax authorities of practical checks on small business subjects. The bill proposes not to conduct checks on natural persons who are entrepreneurs who are not registered to pay positive taxes and legal persons who do not apply a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting, which provides for the inclusion of a value added tax in a single tax. Moreover, in the Tax Code, which, in article 75.1.3, paragraph 75.1 of article 75, "See Ukraine's Tax Code checks", such a prohibition existed before Parliament voted on the provisions of a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities. So today, of course, there's a point to vote for these bills, to support our entrepreneurs. And I agree with the Queen that, unfortunately, Parliament does not vote on laws that today are appropriate to vote and fight with entrepreneurs in a crisis that is unfortunately an economic crisis that unfortunately exists in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u199	Yuri Carmazin. Behind him is Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u200	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, when submitted, is December 7, 2011. That is to say, it was just when article 75, paragraph 1.3, of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine came into force, where it was written that no actual examination of the entity's natural person, which is not registered by the payer for the added value, was carried out prior to the introduction of the simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting of small business entities. I mean, not love, that's it. Because of this, what is changing? At the end of the year, the Royals and those who offered to come with us, but through their committee, offered the right offer. But by the end of the year, we had just reached this point. And instead of talking about the demagogies or the mortuaries that Mr. Chechetov was talking about right now, or instead, it would have to be helped. And you're on the budget committee! And we had to make it work to get that rule out. That's it. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u201	I repeat, demagogia. So, I suggest a very simple norm, a simple norm. It only says that by December 31st, these tests would not be conducted until December 31st. Although I think they need to be kept for longer, people only because they will be human. By the way, demagog is not an offensive word, Mr. Lazko, it is not an offensive word. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I propose that we vote, that's all that applies, that law is not political. Please, please. Three times you can't do it. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u202	Yuri Anatoliyovich, I see you've entered into a conspiracy with Laszko. Chechtev, please. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u203	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, you can agree with one point of Yuri Anatolievich, I'm willing to sign under every letter. Well, look, in fact, several dozen bills were drafted by Natalia Jurievna. She's probably drafted more laws herself to protect small businesses than the whole "Paternity" faction. And instead of thanking her for what the faction did, she took it away. I took her out of the faction! So, as I return to today's bill, I turn again to Fatherhood or to BUTU, as you may be called, I don't know what to call you anymore, and I ask you to stop the political massacres and political repressions against your factions. Let us support our proposal and send this law for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, conspiracies don't go to the Supreme Council. Please, Baby, one last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u205	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. It's about who's here. You know, it's easy to say "demagog" when you don't know how simple people live. Then all the demagogues. When you go to the market, to the barn, to the houses where the family, five children in Kiev were pulled out yesterday by the raiders, or when you go to that girl who was raped by three mud boys, where the parents of prosecutors, judges, and so on, then you will understand the difference between demagogy and the struggle for human rights. Now, about the morgues, the six people who protect me. Thanks to the Lord God, I do nothing to hide behind the backs of a dead man. Unlike your authority, which rides 20 carts, which Kyiv covers in the south because they fear that you will be placed in one place, beginning with the highest, and ending with the lowest. I don't need to hide behind the guards, unlike you, and remember, you were running down the subways, where Afghans and black people went under my lead, how you hid your badges, how you feared you wouldn't be recognized by MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u206	Natalia Kraljevska, reply is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u207	I want to thank you all again, colleagues, for your support. And I would like to tell the MP from the Party of the Regions, Mr Chechtov. Mikhail Vasilevich, well, you don't ask us to come to the party, well, you don't have to speak so much and support us. We have a bunch of strong new leaders who can build a new economy, but we're not going to take you in. So let us finish this discussion and let everyone be responsible for their actions. Thank you. We'll figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-14-m0.u208	But I do know that he's your fighter deputy on the committee, and he gets you out quite often. The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the first reading, the Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on actual checks]] [[Registration number 9549]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:59:30.]] For-88 There was an offer for processing. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:59:53]] For 290 Supported. We're done with the Royal Bills. Let me make an announcement. According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputies Logwinenka Alexia Stepanović and Suslov Eugenia Ivanovich from the deputy faction "BUT – "Pakkaščina". Dear colleagues, we have a number of bills, draft statutes on date setting. Let's do them. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the 100th anniversary of Michael Panasovich Stelmacha. [[Registration number 9536]] Please be supportive. [[14:01:06]] For 315 It's been decided. Next: Order to mark the 130th anniversary of the birth of Igor Fedorovich Stravinsky. [[Registration number 9573]] Please vote. [[14:01:36]] For 292 Copy that. A decree to commemorate the 130th anniversary of the birth of a prominent politician, historian Vijacheslav Kazimirovich Lipinsky. [[9617 Registration Number]] Please vote. [[2:02:03]] For-300 A decision has been made. A decree to mark the 170th anniversary of the birth of artist Vladimir Orlovsky. [[Registration number 9620]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:02:29]] For 116 Not supported. Overruled. The decree to mark 120th anniversary of the birth of Mikoli Kulish. [[9630 Decrees]] Please vote. [[14:02:56]] For-286 Copy that. According to Krušeljnice, we've only been included in the agenda today. Let us consider the committee’s decision today, and we will put it on Friday. Well, just today's on, you can't if there's an evening meeting. Dear colleagues, you and I have exhausted the agenda for today. I remind you that at 3 p.m. we have parliamentary hearings: "Learning in rural areas: crises and ways to overcome them." We've been working on committees, commissions and factions for 16 hours. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00.
