ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[09:59:51]] The 420 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on April 20, 2012, the National Deputy of Ukraine for the fifth and sixth appeals, the First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban, Housing and Regional Policy, a member of the deputy faction of the Ukrainian National Self-Defense bloc, Hero of Ukraine, a well-deserved Ukrainian builder Vladimir Avrumovic Polachenko. Please honor our colleague’s memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 10 to 13 April 2012. Six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place. 42 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, seven laws and 21 decrees were passed, one bill was adopted on the basis of 17 bills and two draft decrees were rejected, 171 parliamentary motions were issued. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Fedotovitch. Please welcome our colleague and wish him good health. [[Applause]] Honourable People's Deputies, on April 23, 2012, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputies of the Jurassic Vitali Stanislavovic, elected on September 30, 2007, in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency of the Party of the Regions, and Ramez Valerija Vasilovic, elected on September 30, 2007, in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency constituency of the People's Party. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Zuravsky Vitaly Stanislavovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u2	Good afternoon! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please welcome Vitali Stanislavovich. [[Applause]] Vitalia Stanislavovich, please put the document here. A document, please. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Ramez Valeriy Vasilovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u4	Good afternoon! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all the countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, please welcome Valery Vasilovich. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with my personal statement, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zuravian Vitali Stanislavovic, is to be appointed as a member of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with my personal statement, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ramez Valerija Vasilovich, has been appointed as a member of the People's Party's People's Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups. Please sign up for the performance. Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u6	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! To examine the implications of medical reform, members of our faction visited Winnicka, Dnepropetrovska, Donetskya and a number of other areas. In our view, all reforms and the return of experience on the people of Ukraine are the following. First. This is a sharp reduction in the financing of this sector. Second. This is so-called optimization, i.e. the closure of medical facilities. Third. This is a sharp decline in the level of medical care when transferring from specialist doctors to so-called family doctors. This is in fact a mechanism for the transition to paid medicine, namely, the real goals and objectives of the so-called reform. And what quality treatment and prevention of the disease can be considered when one of the criteria for the effectiveness of the work of a family doctor is, just think, not sending the patient to the consultation, even encouraging up to 25 per cent of the allowance? Up to 10 per cent can be employed for the non-rehabilitation of needy patients. Child care systems are also being destroyed, and children's clinics are with them. Our children will now be forced to take turns in admitting to a family doctor in danger of being infected with tuberculosis or other infectious diseases. As a result of the insolence of reformers, hospitals and FAPs are closed in cities and villages, and people have to travel tens of miles to get specialized assistance. Thus, in Dnepropetrovsk on the area of mass, women's consultations and stationers are closed, the student hospital is closed, although foreign students in Dnepropetrovsk are trained at about 50,000. In Vinice, 4,000 students of the Vinnick Peduniversity had one medical facility and was eliminated. It's called reform. Two offices in the Tokmak Central District Hospital of Urology and Neurology have been closed in Zaporozhye. Residents are invited to travel for medical assistance in Zaporozhye — 85 kilometers or 40 kilometers — or Vasilievka. There's no direct transport, we need to move with transplants. The Gynecology Department is scheduled to close. A closed maternity ward in the town of Dneprodno, births were transferred to Vasiljevka, which is 20 kilometres away. Children's and maternity wards are closed at the Andreev Central District Hospital, and residents are invited to seek medical assistance at the Berdjan District Hospital, 45 kilometres away. In the Kirovograd region, the Poznań water treatment plant was re-profiling in a sanatorium, after which the cost of treatment almost doubled. If the trip had previously cost about a thousand 600 bracelets, today there are over 3,000 bracelets. Many patients are unable to afford hospital treatment. To be reinstated in Kirovograd, the perinatal center, according to patients, is only possible because of a huge bribe. Anyone who doesn't have money gets refused. This is because the area holds the sad leadership for the level of child mortality. Half the maternity homes have already been closed in Lugansk, with 16 of them remaining in the 31st. The next step, however, should be the establishment of three regional perinatal centres in Northdonecka, Alchevské, Krasno Luče. It's just that all births have enough money for these bribes. In the Chernigov region, an office has been dismantled as a result of the restructuring of the Bahmach inter-regional anti-tuberculosis dispenser, which served three agrarian areas of the area. Tuberculosis patients now have to reach the district anti-tuberculosis dispenser 150 kilometres on public transport. And this is happening all over Ukraine. Once again, Communists, we warn that such reforms are essentially anti-national. We recommend that these reformers have experience in rabbits and mice, but not in the people of Ukraine. Again and again, the communists say that these reforms must be halted and that the State's attitude towards the provision of medical care must be fundamentally changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u7	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. The next will be Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, the reform of the energy sector is one of the five priority reforms that are consistently supported by the Reform for the Future. Today, we would like to draw the attention of society and you, honourable national MPs, to Ukraine's energy security in part of its management through energy flows. So it has happened that for 20 years in Ukraine, there has been a lack of annual information in the form of a so-called energy balance regarding the state's energy consumption level, both in the division of areas and energy sources. All of this leads to a problematic and inescapable forecast of future energy development at all its levels. We're sure that the current patterns of demand for energy are primitive, opaque and that they apply the principle well known from student times as the "stella" or "finger to sky" principle. All of this has resulted from the rejection of the annual formation of the accumulated energy balance, by the way, existing in the days of the Soviet Union. Yes, the attempts to restore this procedure were, but the restoration of the balance we saw in 1996, 2004 and 2010 did not become a panacea until today, because they do not have legislative support, but probably the political will of those who care about it. So we are now living in a state that does not have information about its own energy consumption level and, as a result, is unable to form a legitimate demand for energy in any future. The following factors are not taken into account: First. A complex energy-economy complex, in their relationship, that can't be accounted for as a simple linear function or just a predictive model. The other one. The interchangeability and complementarity of individual types of energy transmissions of the power supply system. Third. The effects of new technologies in energy generation and energy conservation are not taken into account. Four. No account is taken of the implementation of the energy efficiency programme, the response of the population and businesses to the change in energy prices and the external price of the environment. As a result, today’s inexplicable and opaque Ukrainian economic energy has led to our view of economic growth in both the region and the state as a whole. This has led to accelerated inflation processes and, as a result, has led to the forced struggle of the National Bank of Ukraine with additional factors that have an impact on the strength of the national currency. This results in an increase in family budgets for every Ukrainian and a low level of collection of payments. This results in a high level of public spending on regional budgets. This is the key to reducing the level of energy security of the state and its territory due to the inability to cover the growing energy demand of the economy, as well as the need for fuel and additional power at low energy efficiency. If you call it one word, it's the word "poverty" or the way to this poverty we have today. In other words, outdated technologies, shadow sector management, corruption scandals, conspiracies by market participants and attempts to monopolize one or the other segments and excessive politicization block the necessary reforms in this area. The MP's Reform for the Future has registered Bill 9538 on Energy Balance, which aims at mandatory legislative reinforcement and annual energy balance of the state as the main source of information in this sector. We offer you, honourable deputies, to reject any unnecessary warnings and to support this bill, which will be considered this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u9	Arseny Yatzenyuk, 8 minutes to play. Surrenders Sergey the Upper 4 Minutes. Two factions, right? Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u10	Dear Chairman! Honorable Members of Parliament! I have the privilege of speaking on behalf of the united opposition today. On behalf of the united opposition that made a decision yesterday on the basis of the political party "The Fatherland", led by Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna, political party "The Front of Change", party "For Reforms and Order", party "For Ukraine!""the People's Movement of Ukraine and the People's Self-Defense Party to form the only united Ukrainian democratic opposition. I extend my condolences to the Party of Regions and welcome millions of Ukrainians and our political associates with such a responsible decision for the first time in 20 years of Ukrainian political history! We've gone through personal things. We're thinking state! We are thinking about Ukraine and the Ukrainians! And that's why we're united. However, Ukraine has never been so close to a breakthrough in political, social, and economic life in the last 20 years. In fact, the State stopped and found itself in political isolation. We are not supported in Washington, Moscow, Brussels, or even Beijing. This is based on the imprisonment of Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka. This is based on political and general corruption in Ukraine. The foundation of this is the clans. The country’s total debt exceeded $130 billion. This year alone, the country is obliged to pay off some $10 billion! And over the past year, this authority has been additionally borrowing about $9 billion. 1 out of every 10 Ukrainians today has no job! 1 out of every 4 young Ukrainians has no job either! In fact, it is a country of the unemployed and the poor. For the first time in Ukraine, there was a new turn. But these lines aren't near the shops, because Ukrainians have nothing to buy. These queues have appeared near foreign embassies because Ukrainians are mass leaving our country. This is the country that is built today by President Yanukovic's hands and by the hands of this vast majority. We're going to create a new Ukraine. We have some incredibly difficult tasks ahead of us. And we make it clear that in order to change people's lives, and this is our main task, we need to change President Yanukovic's current government, the real government, and the actual majority. This will be done in the 2012 parliamentary elections. It's a parliamentary election. Parliament needs to be restored in the country, not the Ukrainian National Deputies Department, which is fully subject to President Yanukovic's Administration. We will introduce a new democratic majority into Ukraine's new parliament with a new quality, with honest politics, with open politics, with Ukrainian politics and with responsibility to the Ukrainian people. It will be a parliament that speaks on behalf of the people of Ukraine, not on behalf of several clans who now own the whole country. We put ourselves in a very difficult and important position. One of the main tasks is the adoption by the new Parliament of a series of reformist bills. However, once again, it is possible to change life in Ukraine only if it changes the power of authority and actually increases the responsibility of all government officials. One of the first laws to be passed by a democratic majority is the Ukrainian Law on the Order of impeachment of the President of Ukraine. The new democratic majority in the new parliament will introduce a procedure for the personal voting of Ukrainian national deputies. We're going to put criminal responsibility for voting with other people's cards. We're going to force the National Deputies to re-establish laws and a valid Constitution. The new democratic majority will adopt a number of laws that will provide for broad reforms, primarily in the education system, in the medical system, in the law enforcement system, and in the independence of judges. Look, what happened with Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko is just the tip of the iceberg. The abuse of 46 million Ukrainians is the foundation of today's power. Over the past two years alone, there has been a 2fold increase in internal affairs mortality in Ukraine. The death rate in the penitentiary system increased by 25 percent. No criminal case can be investigated. Of course, if this is not against political opponents. The truth cannot be obtained either in the prosecution or in the court. Our main reform is the reform of the legal and judicial system. They are judges who serve the people, not President Yanukovic. And this will be done by the next democratic parliament. We will restore social justice. What's going on now? The five shareholders of the Party of Regions own property and property that is worth 46 million Ukrainians. It was the opposition in September last year that began the process of amending pension legislation and legislation on employment and wages. Let me remind you that the opposition demanded, and this rule was voted out, to increase pensions for 10 million pensioners by 334 bracelets. A year later, President Janukovic mentioned his direct duties and increased his pension. True, the pensioners’ base is 13 dollars, and some pensioners are 100 dollars. We have a simple question to ask the current power and the President: where did you divide 234 into pockets again? We will introduce and adopt a comprehensive law on the restoration of social justice. And this is the recalculation of pensions, this is the calculation of wages, and this is the calculation of the minimum living minimum, taking into account the level of inflation. We have been tasked with depriving all officials and depriving all Ukrainian national deputies of benefits and privileges. Such laws were repeatedly opposed, but the majority did not vote. We're going to vote on these laws, we're going to deprive senior government officials of the ability to use hundreds of millions of Ukrainian dollars for charter flights, for state aid and for their own maintenance. In a poor country, there will be no rich president and no rich officials. In a poor country, we will make the Ukrainian people rich and the poor officials -- this is the task of united opposition. The united opposition is ratifying the treaty with the European Union. We will take Ukraine along the European path. We'll win. We will change the lives of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. It is a difficult struggle, but in this fight we are being fought by the people of Ukraine. And that's why we're going to win. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u11	Valerius Baranov, faction of the People's Party. Cosub will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, unfortunately, often replace practical work with slogans and political cracks from that rostrum. I'll talk about it. Today we must think about how to implement those initiatives on social and economic development and on the social guarantees of our citizens. What's the big deal today? Communication with business and power suggests that the problems are obvious and they have a solution, but unfortunately they have not been solved for decades. The first cause of all evils is an administrative system that stifles every case and breeds corruption. The management system of the past era has grown and created conditions for the outflow of investment and business. Let me remind you, we're in the second hundred countries where it's comfortable to work. Partial reduction of staff is not an administrative reform. And the administrative reform should simplify management and eliminate premeditated and duplicate functions. It's not the frame that needs to be cut, it's the functions. Unfortunately, we do not yet have the concept of such reform, and it must be carried out together with the territorial one. This topic has not yet been the subject of debate, debate in society and international experience, which is where to begin. Thus, I receive hundreds of complaints from local authorities and businesses that, following the development of the money that you and I allocate to the socio-economic development of the territories, the OPE, UBOP, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the SBU and all other forces and controllers have heated up the competition. The process of checks distracts workers, is accompanied by threats, usually insinuating that all can be ruled. The question is, "Why are we funding 5-7 structures at the same time if they are doing the same function?" In order to monitor the use of budgetary money, there is the KRU and the Court of Auditors, and the rest must only come from the fact that violations have been identified. By reducing the army of supervisors, we will free the economy and save money for the social programmes that are needed today. Second. How do we attract investors? How to create conditions for the construction of factories and factories, for the establishment of shopping centres, hotels and for the construction of housing? Not at all! For several years now, there has been no mechanism for disposing land for these purposes in Ukraine. You can do it under real estate, but you can't do it under construction. How can you build an enterprise if you can't get land?Oh, my God! The land code has determined the withdrawal of land through auctions, but there is no order of trade. Local budgets can sell land and fill their second basket, but there is no legal mechanism to do so without violation. The question is, "How many more years will it take to create a new Ministry for the Writing of a Cabinet decree, which could be done within a week by a team of professionals?" More on investment. No one will give them without a project with appropriate expertise. And we just don't have them. Moreover, local authorities have no expertise. No one teaches them how to prepare a business plan to attract financial institutions locally or abroad. That is why we decided in Zaporozhye with the Governor to conduct professional training this year, to prepare a whole set of business plans for investment projects that we will offer to international financial structures. I am confident that, in the next budget, we must wager with you at least 50 million bracelets in order to build this work systematically throughout the country, and this could be done by our Ministry of Regional Development. And more. We have today, under the new Presidential Order, all those who are hired as civil servants must undergo a special inspection. Trust me, all ministries are documented, and no one can get results for months because there's just no one there to do it. This problem needs to be addressed immediately. And the last. Last. These are the district newspapers, read, today all the pages contain statements by the heads of the district administrations and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u14	The declarations consist of several identical points: salary, apartment, car per wife, garage, everything. Why are we printing this? We'll soon have the deputies of our village councils on special checks.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u15	Thank you. Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The light festival of the Passover gave us all reason to put off our daily messes and to contemplate eternal values. But holidays pass, and we return to the wake with their joys and problems. Nevertheless, our attitude for good remains with us. And today I want to remind people of the most important decisions taken by power in recent days. We have something to say. Main news: The President of Ukraine has signed the amendments to the country's budget adopted by the Supreme Council. A change in the social security system has begun, with the results of which millions of citizens will feel. During the 2 years of hard work, the Party of the Regions has brought order in the country not only by halting the decline of the economy but also by increasing it. This enabled more than 33 billion bracelets to be added to the budget this year alone. The leadership has decided in principle to send this money to improve the standard of living of citizens and to narrow the gap between the rich and the poor. The left share of funds is directed towards the needs of those most in need of State care, pensioners, disabled persons and veterans. Labour pensions will grow by 100 bracelets and above. Pensions of former military personnel will grow to 412 grevens, and military disabled persons will grow to 479 grevens. Nearly twice will be paid to the disabled by the Day of Victory. Payments to low-income families will increase by 390 grevens per month. An additional 283,000 prosthetics and wheelchairs will be purchased in the budget. More than 5 billion grevens are allocated to the needs of the regions. Local authorities will be able to send them to raise salaries for budget workers, as well as to build roads, repair utilities, schools, hospitals, and the opening of new kindergartens. Once worked out in a user-friendly rather than clerical way, the procedures will resume to compensate investors of the former USSR Sberbank. The first raised payments will be received in May. Today's power guarantees: an increase in social pay will be regular, and the guarantee will be a stable economic development. The adoption of the new Code of Criminal Procedure has also been an important step towards the success of every Ukrainian. It took years to work on it, but the political will to accept it was limited to the Party of Regions and our allies. In the short term, the Ukrainian legal field would be rebuilt for the benefit of a citizen, not a public vehicle. Dear colleagues, we understand that the greatest effect can be brought together by joint steps of power and opposition for the benefit of the people of our country. And we're ready for this work, and is the opposition ready? For the time being, it is only a dissatisfaction with the Electoral Act, which it itself has supported. The dissatisfaction with the adjustments made to this document by the Constitutional Court is just another evidence of your weakness, a well-respected opposition. The obvious explanation is that they have nothing to go with, but that means they will be defeated in the elections. And they can only write down their failure on the grounds that the law is bad, the power is hindered, and people do not understand their initiatives. A position worthy of a bad dancer. On behalf of the faction of the Party of the Regions, I would like to assure you that the elections will be held in accordance with democratic standards, and this stage in Ukrainian history will be held with dignity. Every citizen, every Ukrainian family, will be given new opportunities, higher standards of living and protection of their rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are over. For the suggestions contained in the presentations, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, I am announcing the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights. As you know. Dear colleagues, on March 15, 2012, there was a secret vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the appointment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights under the terms of Zakharov Eugen Yuhimovich and Lutkov Valeria Volodymyrovna. Considering that none of the candidates had obtained the necessary number of votes to support themselves, in accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights" on the 20th day following the announcement of the results of the vote, namely, from March 16 to April 4, the current year included the re-election of candidates for the post of Commissioner. On March 27, 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine received a proposal from the 261 national deputy of Ukraine for the nomination of Valeria Volodymyrovna Lutkovsky to serve as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights. According to part two of article 208 of the Rules, on the basis of documents received from the committee that dealt with the matter, it was submitted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the plenary meeting, had reviewed Lutkovska Valeria’s candidacy and had decided by secret balloting. The relevant material provided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations on this subject is given to you. Dear colleagues, such rules of procedure are proposed. To report to the committee's head, within 3 minutes. I think if there's a question in the people's deputies, one minute, you can ask the candidate these questions, I think the report doesn't need to be heard. Then make statements from factions that will show a desire to speak and then give the opportunity to speak to the national MPs, 12 minutes for the national MPs. Is it gonna be okay? Well, 15 come on, okay? Then we made a deal. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, please do not help me. I invite the head of the Zarubin Oleg Committee to announce the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On February 8, 2012, the five - year term for the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights of Carpache Nina Ivanovna was completed. As has already been said by the Head of Parliament, taking into account that on 15 March, none of the candidates obtained the necessary number of votes to support themselves, in accordance with the law in force, a new 20-day nomination took place. It ended on April 4, this year. 261 of the people’s deputies supported the nomination of Lutkovska Valeria Volodymyrovna for the post of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Commissioner for Human Rights. According to part four of article 208 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, on 13 April of this year, the newspaper Voice of Ukraine published information about her as a candidate for the post of Commissioner in strict compliance with the procedure. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act "On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights", the Commissioner may be appointed a Ukrainian citizen who, on the date of election, is 40 years old, speaks a national language, has high moral qualities, has experience in law enforcement and has been living in Ukraine for the last five years. The Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations Committee at its meeting on April 11, 2012, reviewed Lutkovska Valeria Volodymyrna’s candidacy, documents and information about herself. Following a discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies, two proposals were made by members of the Committee to conclude that Lutkov's candidature was compatible with article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. First. Candidate for Lutkovské V.V. meets the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights and there are no reasons that prevented it from taking office. This proposal was supported by four national deputies, the "against" five. And the second. Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna has no experience of law - enforcement activity, which is mandatory, provided by law, for the appointment of a citizen as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights, and therefore she cannot claim this position. This decision was supported by five people's deputies, four against. Thus, the second sentence was supported by the majority. In accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Authorized Commissioner is appointed to office and is released from office by secret ballot, by means of the submission of ballot papers. The candidate for which the majority of the Ukrainian national deputies voted from the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition is considered to be the one to be appointed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u19	Valeria Lutkowski, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for Valeria Lutkowski. Please, Alexander Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u20	I would like to take the floor to the head of the faction of Andrija Anatoliovich Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u21	Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, present! I would like to contact you with the following information and with the following request. The point is that two days after the night from 21 to 22, suddenly Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko was transferred to a hospital in Kharkiv. Then also the suddenly transported Julia Volodymyrna was back to Kachaniv prison. Today's the second day, and we can't get there, the defense can't get to Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, he doesn't know what's going on with her, and he doesn't even know where she is. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing you personally, in the presence of the future, probably the Ombudsman. I would like to ask you to contact Mr. Lisicki or the person who smokes him immediately and to allow you to enter the defense at once at Ulysses Volodymyrna. Anyway, we're leaving behind a reaction from the faction about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u23	Okay, I heard. I'm going to have a proper conversation. Adam Ivanovich, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u24	Fomin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u25	Alexander Fomin. Please pass the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u26	Pavlovsky’s microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u27	Andrey Pavlovski, a member of the faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko, is a Party of the Fatherland. I would like to ask, Mrs. Lutkovska, which you have a moral right after you've claimed that Lucenka's case has no violations when the acting Human Rights Commissioner Karpachov says there are grave violations. The whole world has admitted that Lucenka's case is pure politics, order business, personal revenge of Yanukovich. And then you don't blush, you go to a position that needs high morals, and you're acting as a prosecutor. As far as I know, you haven't won a case in the last year, more than 120 cases in Ukraine have been lost. So we're counting that you have no right to hold this position morally. If you were a moral person, you would have given up that position. And in civilized countries, this position is part of the opposition quota. But it's in civilized, democratic, European countries, not our dictatorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u28	Please, Valery Volodymyrna, answer
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the standards of European justice, which are governed by the European Court of Human Rights, decisions are made on the basis of not one party's statements but on the basis of two sides' statements. And without hearing the State’s arguments accordingly, the European Court of Human Rights cannot make an objective decision. In this regard and in order for the European Court of Justice to make an objective decision on the Lucenka case, it was necessary to present what I had done, since I was in the position to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u30	Mankovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u31	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u32	Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u33	Dear Valeria Vladimirovna, do not pay attention to the pre-election rhetoric of certain political losers. Now it's on the merits. We know you as a literate professional lawyer, a principled person who is very strong in protecting the interests of the State, the interests of the Ukrainian people and human rights. We know you as a politically unattractive person who has never served the interests of certain political parties but has always served the people of Ukraine and the Ukrainian State. Say it from this high rostrum, give me the floor, which will continue when we choose you, and we have no doubt that we will elect you to this high office, that you will protect human rights absolutely impartially, regardless of the political orientation of the individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u34	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Of course, I can give such an honest word. The only thing I would like to stress is the answer. This is that in democratic countries, the position of an ombutzman is apolitical. And I would like to propose an apolitical position in the event of election.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u35	Dmitry Schlemko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u36	Please give the floor to National Deputy Teren Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u37	Victor Terrence, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u38	Thank you, Dmitri Vasilovich. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Once again, I stress and speak to the entire country that a number of human rights violations are being committed today. Our deputy Vlasenko is not allowed to go to Julia Timoshenko. The militia once again shows the beast's masonry, and the authorities act as it does. Now, the question to the candidate they want to appoint today is to assign this position, not to choose. And the question is. According to your declaration, where income from car sales, in particular, is reflected in your declaration, such things as dividend income in AT Reiffeisen Bank and so on. I mean, when the committee has twice decided that you don't have experience in law enforcement and you can't claim this position, now you can't claim this position out of moral qualities either.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u39	Thank you for asking, Victor Vasilovich! But to be honest, I don't really understand what this is about. Because over the course of the year, I can prove it properly, and it's written in a declaration that fits reality. During the year, I did not sell the vehicle you just mentioned. And I don't know what dividends you're talking about, because I didn't have any deposits, so I didn't have any dividends.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u40	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, with regard to the application, statements, information about the refusal of a lawyer to Timoshenko. I've just made phone calls, the question will be solved. Now, it's simple. Well, for a few minutes, I don't know how the team's gonna go, I've been promised that everything will be out there, some problems will be solved. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions. Anyone who wants to sign up. Then we'll go on record, from the national MPs. Please, from the factions. Yes, Behiz. Ariev, Chechetov, Kirilchuk, Litwin Now, please sign up for another national MP, 15 minutes. So that's how we're going to have half an hour. National deputies, please sign up. Put your name on the board. Valerius Ananiyovich Beaz, Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u41	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I think we're wasting our time at all. Why? Because I worked for four and a half years in Parliament, I became convinced as a former member of the Committee on Law Enforcement, and today as head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption that Valery Volodymyrovna Lutkovska is a highly professional expert. And so knowledge of the law, knowledge of the law, knowledge of the language, finally, knowledge of life allows us today absolutely without prejudice to vote in favour of this candidature as an authorized human rights, which I ask to support the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u42	Ariev, please. Next is Mikhail Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, we've talked a lot about moral qualities here, and can this candidate claim to be the person who has to defend the rights of other people who have been in denial, especially lately, of today's power, than ever since independence. But we have absolutely undeniable facts. We see that Mrs. Lutkovska, when she wrote to the court, why Yuri Lucenko could not go to the European Court of Human Rights, said on behalf of the Ukrainian government that no rights had been violated and that everything was fine. Although all the rights advocates, the rights advocates themselves, have marked the world’s shameful and totally inhumane violations of its rights, particularly during the December 2010 arrest. Please tell me, can this woman, this lady, be called an ombudsman, a human rights defender? But it cannot defend even state interests because more than 600 cases have been lost in the European Court of Human Rights and no case has been won. So if you'll excuse me, this person can't even protect the interests of power. What are we talking about? We're going to get another puppet called an ombudsman, and in fact, it's going to protect the interests of today's gang.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u44	Mikhail Chechtov, faction of the Communist Party. Valery Bondick, please. Then Eugene Kirilchuk. Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! Several drawings: personal and general. Well, first of all, the rhetoric that someone lost or won in a court of law is inappropriate, but if it's about the state and the European court. There's no rhetoric, there's no rhetoric, because there's no fighting, there's no winning, there's no losing. Valery Volodymyrna Lutkovska, which I know about as a personal person, according to compatible work at the Ministry of Justice, is first of all a man raised and a man intelligent. And now we need to represent the state really intelligently and with knowledge of one of the European languages. As for her education, she also has professional education. On the whole, my fellow citizens, we can't blame Valery Volodymyrovn Lutkovsky for the fact that Ukraine's affairs, I'm sorry, the citizens against the state in the European Court of Justice were somehow unmotivated. First of all, it's a procedure. Rather than blame it, the advantage is that a person conscientiously proves that there is some inadequacy of legislation. And that's our problem with you. Because what's not being decided by national legislation is then going to the European Court of Justice. Therefore, we should not be mistaken. And the last. I want to convince colleagues who may not have voted in favour of Valeria Volodymyr Lutkovska. And the last. You see, the principle of preparing a European Ombudsman is, first of all, a study of European practice. It's a stop, if you want, for both the opposition, and for defenders like Mustafa Jemiliev, like Simeon Glossman, who sat in camps for 10 years. And Valeria Volodymyrna, in public communication and in the colleges of the Ministry of Justice, was associated with these people. So, dear colleagues, I can say it for a long and long time, but within the regulations I still call on those who didn't vote, and I'll convince them that we should vote because that's our face. And, you know, this comparison is a European face, so let's vote. And I think Valery Volodymyrna will make the right conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u46	Andrew Kožemiakin, Faction of the Fatherland. Next is George Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u47	Good afternoon. The Human Rights Commissioner's election in the Supreme Council is another farce that is being played in Parliament today. The power of the majority today reiterates Valeria Lutkowski's candidacy for the office of Ombudsman, despite the fact that on March 15, this year, Parliament expressed its mistrust and did not vote in favour of her. Moreover, the Supreme Council’s professional committee twice denied Mrs. Lutkowski the right to take office because she lacked experience in law enforcement. However, it has experienced the protection of repression against the opposition, the oppression of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, which are exercised by a valid Ukrainian government. In her reply to the Lucenko v. Ukraine case, Mrs. Lutkovska asked the European Court of Human Rights to admit once again Yuri Lucenka explicitly. I'm referring. The application to liberate Yuri Lucenka is clearly unpleasant, referring to the absence of any violation of his rights by Ukraine. The position of Mrs. Lutkowski is completely out of control and unprincipled. other resonant matters, such as Julia Timoshenko and other former members of her government, in which she stated that there were no human rights violations on the part of the State. Therefore, the position of the Faction "BUT" is clear: Lutkowski's candidature must be removed; Parliament elects not the Human Rights Commissioner, but an agent of power who will justify the crimes of this authority before international institutions. The Supreme Council is self-destructively destroying one of the major state institutions that characterizes the level of democracy of the state. By electing the Commissioner for Human Rights, a fully controlled authority today, the Ukrainian Parliament is legitimizing the extensive oppression of citizens' rights and freedoms, the prosecutor's-millitarian and court-martialed saviour. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko "The Fatherland" will not take part in the farce, which is actually today's vote for the Authorized Human Rights, because since Mrs. Lutkowski's election as the Ombudsman of the citizens of Ukraine will be deprived of the opportunity to defend their rights. constitutional rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u48	Yuri Litwin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u49	Yuri Litwin, faction of the People's Party. Of course, signing a submission by more than 250 deputies is a fact of confidence in the candidate. Not everything is resolved in committees, not everything is resolved in ambitions, but it is certain that Parliament will have to make a decision by voting. So the faction of the People's Party today reaffirms its, let's say, irrevocable decision on the support of Valeria Volodymyrina for this position. And we certainly want it to be the main and fundamental question for it after the selection is that it protects people's rights and interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin. He's got six minutes. He's being handed over to him by Stanislaw Arjevitin. I mean, we have 15 minutes for the Nationals. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Time's up. You have six minutes. The next one will be Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I sincerely thank my colleague, Arjevetina, who asked me to say that he wanted to do one thing in his speech: thank the previous Ombudsman, Nina Ivanovni Carpathian, for the work that they were doing together in the Zacarpathian area for the protection of human rights. I have now carried out this commission and thank him for giving me the opportunity to speak. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! We are now facing an election or not of the most serious official who is equal to the President of Ukraine as the guarantor of the exercise of human rights and freedoms. And this is exactly what the Law concerning the Authorized One requires before this candidature. Not only is it a requirement of a national language, not only to have high moral qualities, but it is also a requirement to have experience in law enforcement, but the committee has concluded that there is no such experience. No, it turns out, was the experience of the committee, twice sitting down and making decisions. And I want to continue with what colleague Taran-Terren said today. By the way, I would like to inform you, honourable national deputies, that I have made an urgent appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because he is now responding, the ball in his field, to take steps to prevent Valeria Volodymyrovna Lutkowski from voting on the ground that in the declaration we have been given, and for the first time, and for the second time not indicated the things that should be indicated. As a representative of the opposition, what did I do? I've asked the right questions, but given that the authorities are lying to the opposition all the time today, they're deceiving the Ukrainian people, I want to say that the national MP Taran-Terren has sent the right message. And I want to show you the printing that's in the tax base. You can see it today, even in Petrikowica, in Kharkiv district, you can see it in Odessa, if you can see it in Suma or in Lviv. And where there are bases for access to this information, it means that because of Poliservis B in the first quarter of 2011, a car was implemented, and there's a corresponding amount, 33,000 and a surplus. There's also other amounts that show that even from the Bank of Avalon were these calculations. Identification code, everything. Moreover, this data is easily tested through the DAI system. I'll help you remember: the car had a number 58-587 km, and the previous car had a number a little bit different: 0807, ahead of AA, and today it stayed. That's why I have examples of students now who haven't given $300 in the declaration refusing to take up the public service. And to the person who represents Ukraine and heads a delegation of Ukraine to participate in the work of a group of GRECO States against corruption, we can allow ourselves to not know in chapter II, not knowing in chapter V of this information, and that's what we think is normal. I've called all the faction leaders and sent you this documentary information, I'm showing the media these things, I'm saying that the authorities don't know what she did it for, she could have had 3 and 5 cars, that's her problem, but to say it in a declaration, it's a duty. Failure to say it in a declaration is a brutal violation that carries other things. But I wanted to make a point right now, not in this situation, which is pulling the unconditional withdrawal of this candidature. I just wanted to quote Mrs. Valeria, what she said about Lucenka. She thinks that keeping Lucenka under custody was "justifiable," and I quote, she thinks that the National Courts "went out of the clear sense of the crime he committed." Finally, now, recently, despite Nina Karpachev's record as an ombudsman that during the pretrial and judicial investigations into the Lucenka case, his rights to freedom, his personal integrity, provided for in article 1, 3, 4 of the Convention, the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Ms. Lutkovska said, the Government is asking the court to establish that there are no violations of the Lucenka case. Such an ombudsman is not needed by Ukraine, I demand responsibility for false information, and I demand another ombudsman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u52	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! You know how strange it is to be in a room where they're about to propose killing each other, calling each other different disgusting names just because someone wants to fight for power. At the same time, note that it is not the people's trust, but to fight at all costs, and to hate all the Ukrainian people and all the hatred and discord in our Parliament. But most of them certainly don't. For one simple reason. According to those who call themselves opposition, there is no truth and there is no support for the people. Even the basic thing, criticizing the representative for this high position, the opposition did not even try to present an alternative because they fully understand the Lutkov Valery Vladimirovna, a worthy candidate. And today, the opposition has no worthy opponent or person who could represent the interests of human rights activities in the territory of the Ukrainian State. But the simple thing is, those who today call themselves human rights defenders are, unfortunately, usually grantoed and who earn the money they've been paid. I can say with full responsibility that we have worked with Valeria Vladimirovna on several occasions and she works very actively with social human rights organizations that see their goal as the most important: the triumph of the law, the triumph of democracy and justice in our State. That is the essence of the work of the Ombudsman, who deals with the protection of human rights rather than the servicing of a political group. I am convinced, like the faction of the Party of the Regions, that the Lutkov Valérie will represent our State and the entire human rights community of our State not only in Ukraine but also in the international community. As I spoke to her, I had been confirmed that she was conducting a completely new level of work with social and human rights organizations. It is not going to lock itself in its cabinet, and the activity will be carried out through the public, through individual human rights defenders, through public organizations. That is to say, it will be a whole new power, a new opportunity for us to jointly implement the President's programme and the interests of our Ukrainian people, where human rights will be priorities and priorities. In this regard, I propose that we combine our efforts to protect, realize and guarantee human rights. We must work here and not engage in a mutual fight to destroy each other. I believe that the current vote will put an end to the fratricidal struggle, and we will take a new path in which the protection of human rights will be a priority for the work of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u54	Andrew School, please. Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Then Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u55	Andrew, thank you. Victor Terrence, "The Timoshenko Yulia Block" is "The Fatherland." Today it's not about choosing an authority. Today, it is about the appointment of a postmaster, the position of authority. No alternative, no alternative, because Victor Fedorovich was determined. The authorities brought up their labour reserves from Monaco, Cyprus, and other exotic islands, circles, and when they placed lists of 260 subscribers who had been engulfed, lashed, bought up, and it became clear that the authorities would not listen to the conclusions of the profile committee, which had twice made a decision, they concluded that Lutkovska had no experience in law enforcement and could not run for office. And in the three weeks that have passed since the first failed vote in Parliament, it has not gained any experience in law enforcement. But the authorities are obstinate and, with the bulldozer's mind, putting Mrs. Lutkovskie on this position, this throne, as the Communists sang, "Sharing the Red Flag of Labor." And there's only one example. Lutkowska, who was responsible for Ukraine's decision to the European Court of Justice, and she talked about it herself, worked so hard that 97 percent of the decisions of the European Court of Justice in Ukraine were not implemented. And now that information has become available, from where, at least, read the Internet, and became known about the concealment of Lutkovsky's income, it can't claim this position for ethical reasons. And we demand that we categorically withdraw Lutkovsky's candidacy from consideration. Our faction will not take part in the vote. We will not take part in this farce, we will not warm up to the authorities, and we will make a fair fight visible. There is no struggle, there is an appointment, there is the face of a new authority, and here you have seen it today and you will see it. And the last. There was an accident coming out of this high rostrum, and it was said that the opposition did not move its candidate. We didn't want to put up our candidate, even though we have people who are worthy. We are convinced that there should not be a person in this position who is a candidate for power or opposition. It's got to be a person from a society, a person like Sakharov in the Soviet Union, like Kovalov was in Russia, like we have Eugene Sverstük. We have enough of these people, we have offered our time to Sakharov, but the authorities do not listen to anything. She also needs this position, she needs to bury this position under herself, so that at all European intersections she can then "flash" the border dictator. And so trust in such an Authorized Society is going to be equal to zero, the legitimacy of such an Authorized Person is going to be equal to zero, and the election of Lutkovsky for this position is the elimination of the Institute of Human Rights in Ukraine. A word of association.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u56	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u57	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I will not vote for Lutkovsky for one reason, for she is being appointed by the authorities. The government of Yanukovich, Azarov, Tihypak, and all others who control and demolish the country today. You've captured, I mean the regions, you've captured everything in this country. Today, you're trying to capture the last human rights perp -- this is the position of the Human Rights Commissioner. And it's completely wrong. There's this saying, "the guy's greed is dying." This greed will lead you into a monastery and lead you astray. Grab, eat and choke. Including when you take this position. But I also strongly disagree with the fact that the opposition, more specifically the factions that say that the opposition: raised their hands and gave up without a fight. There should have been a candidate put up by the opposition. Whether Eugene Zaharov is mentioned or Simeon Glossman, or Mikola Goncharov, is the leader of the Donetsk Chernobyl party that the Radical Party proposed for the Ombudsman. We should not give up without a fight! They're strong when we're weak. When we lift our tails, we run and give up everything we can without a fight. We've already betrayed the country, we've already betrayed Timoshenko, we've already handed over millions of Ukrainian citizens to whom this gang is sitting on its neck! Is this the only thing the Party of the Regions is guilty of?Oh, my God! This is the fault and so-called opposition. I'm watching the speech today by Yatsenuk, the great opposition. After the first round of elections, he urged us not to vote for Timoshenko. After the first round of elections, he ran to Yanukovitch, traded for the Prime Minister's office, and today he's a great opposition who tells him that he's going to release Timoshenko. She's in jail because of Jaciny. Because they didn't support it when we took a sip for Timoshenko, when we did the result, when we tried to make her president, they hid. And today they're big opponents. You're talking about a new quality, Yatzenuk is talking about a new quality of opposition. What new quality?Oh, my God! The wolf, what kind of vodka does he give out in suma? Is that a new quality? Is the new quality of those who came to power in 2004 after the Orange Revolution? Nine months later, this orange coalition was broken, Janukovic and this regional gang were allowed to come to power, and now you're back there. The quality is new! They've got to get everybody in the neck! And the new political powers, the new people must come. Voting for the Elections Act. They take the opportunity to allow the regionals to falsify the elections. And now they're going to blame you for cheating. And you didn't know the thimbles were always fooling around. Who are you sitting with? You don't have ticks in you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that we have concluded our discussion of this matter. It's consistent with statements that have information about inaccuracies that seem to have taken place in the tax declaration. I'm showing you, your honor, the official documents we received in the course of the special inspection. And it's officially written that there are no discrepancies with information about the total revenue received for 2011. There's no breach. What Yuri Anatoliyovich said, I ask you to hand over the documents. I haven't received your call yet. We will give, let them study further, including as a walker, called personal information, and establish the truth. Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. Let the head of the reckoning committee speak now. The reckoning commission is going to work. Then two factions demand a statement. They'll make a statement and we'll keep working. Please, the head of the calculus commission, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! For the organization to hold a secret ballot on the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights, it is necessary to hold the first meeting of the Committee of Counties of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Members of the reckoning committee are requested to meet in five minutes in room five, in the third floor towers, above the session hall. I recall once again the composition of the Military Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine VI calling: Shershun, Viezivski, Shago, Barwinenko, Biruk, Bondarenko, Hacko, Gordijenko, Grimcak, Kasyanuk, Kozub, Komar, Mankovsky, Final, Olijnik Viktor Stepanovich, Prokopchuk, Stoyan, Dry, Tkak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u60	Please go to work then. Where are you going? Do you know where the congregation is? So say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u61	Once again, we're going to room five. It's in the third floor towers, right above us.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! I'm asking that the reckoning committee meet and hold a meeting. Then they informed about their proposals regarding the organization of the voting process. Two factions: "BUT" faction, "Fatherland" and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will make a statement. A word to be spoken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we agreed on what was going to happen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to tell you that there is nothing personal, just two factions, really, agreed to take a break, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in order to make a statement, a serious statement about the political events that are taking place, about the second wave of repression in Ukraine. But unfortunately, it happened that the penitentiary service helped us to take this break for 30 minutes, because we don't know if Mr. Vlasenko got to Julius Volodymyrna after your call or not. We'll wait 30 minutes and then make our application. Please announce a recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u64	An interval of up to 11 hours is announced for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and we will continue our work. Please, Olena Shustik, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u66	Olena Shustik, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear citizens of Ukraine! Addressing the united opposition to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, the European Union on the beginning of a second wave of political repression that is turning and becoming the life - style of the Ukrainian authorities. The Ukrainian authorities, in their words, declare the European integration and democratic development of the state, in practice, ignores the fundamental European principles of the rule of law and the priority of human and civil rights and freedoms. The last resolution of PARJE clearly requires the Ukrainian authorities to stop the politically motivated persecution of the opposition. Instead, in the last three months, the case of Julia Timoshenko has been a symbol of the destruction of democracy in Ukraine. A second, more violent and frightening wave of political repression began in the country. Yes, the head of Kharkiv's Fatherland, Arsen Awakov, is being prosecuted for the same steel articles as Timoshenko was illegally convicted of. Alexander Turkinov is being fabricated openly against false criminal cases. Unlawful planting of ill Valerius Iwashchenka is illegal. Yurya Lucenka tries to secondly condemn the case of Yuschenko’s poisoning. Julius Tymoshenko is absurdly accused of the most terrible crime of all time — murder. The government even resuscitated and brought to justice the so - called JeES case of 15 years of age, closed for lack of criminal composition by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. On April 19, in Kharkiv, there was another infamous court over Timoshenko and without Timoshenko, who, according to German doctors and health, could not participate in the trial. And on April 20, secretly, at night, on the weekend, without a lawyer’s notice, she was taken to the hospital without the consent of Julia Timoshenko herself. Without medical care, she was sent back to prison after a period of time. The fourth day before July, Timoshenko was denied protection. It's an act of psychological and physical torture over Julia Timoshenko, trying to destroy the leader of the opposition physically and psychologically. But the authorities will not succeed. The authoritarian state is building on the background of these Jesuit political divisions at a fast pace. Mad turnouts take on the corruption of the state's highest officials, pass laws that deprive citizens of any rights and turn prosecutors, militias, courts into executions. The United Ukrainian opposition is fighting for a democratic, civilized, European country and calls on the world society to help the Ukrainian people eliminate the authoritarianism that is now taking root in the center of Europe. Any tyranny is doomed to destruction. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u67	Dear National MPs, during the break, I rediscovered the circumstances in which the lawyer, Sergey Vlasenko, was entitled and able to communicate with Julia Timoshenko. I was officially informed that an hour ago, once again, Vlasenko was officially informed that he could visit Julia Timoshenko at any time. But he said that since now, five minutes ago, a press conference started for the prosecutor of the Kharkiv district that he wanted to be present at this press conference. Then he will go to the colony to meet Julia Timoshenko. He was even offered, if necessary, to provide transport. Dear people's deputies, well, I understand that you appreciate what has been done to me. Thank you, yes. Dear colleagues, the head of the Counting Commission ready to report? Well, while there's no head of the Counting Commission, let's take a look at the inclusion of a daily set of bills. No objections? Please, then. And I need to sign a ticket. Let me sign. Decision on the choice of Authorized. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote to be included in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussing what? Dear colleagues, we have an opportunity to discuss this on Wednesday. I'm asking you, let's work a little bit. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[concerning the determination of the allocation of powers]] [[Registration number 10274]] Please vote. [[11:51:08]] For 253 Decision taken. The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings, as well as the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts (for Returns and Compensations of Losses (unpriced) of Citizens' Savings) (Registration No. 10380), as well as the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws (for guarantees of the State's responsibility for the return of citizens' savings) (Registration No. 10355-2) (Registration No. 10355-2) [[on improving the return mechanism]] [[10355, 10355-1]] Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:52:12]] For 254 I want to do better, and you do worse. "For" is 254, the decision is made. Please, the head of the Counting Commission, Mikola Haritonovich Shershun. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u68	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! There was a meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of the 20 members of the Counting Commission, 16 were present at the meeting, i.e. the meeting of the commission is valid. At its meeting, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Counting Committee approved this form of ballot papers for secret ballots. The ballot is made on white paper in the form of a rectangle with a black inscription. The ballot paper for secret ballots will be issued by a reckoning commission again, I recall, only after the presentation of the national deputy of Ukraine’s identity card. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that in accordance with the third part of article 39 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, voting is carried out by secret balloting by means of a sign on the ballot that testifies to the will of Ukraine's national deputy. One candidate for the Lutkov Valeria Volodymyrna was introduced into the ballot for the secret ballot for the appointment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights. If you support a candidate, you mark in any box opposite that name. If you do not support the candidate, make the check box in the box below. I also remind you that only one mark should be made according to your will. Otherwise, the ballot will be considered invalid. The vote will take place from 12 to 13 hours in the second floor towers at the registration desks of Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u69	Yes, my fellow Members, are the proposals understood? I am voting on the proposal to approve the form and content of the ballot for appointment to the post of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Please vote. I'm showing you. [[11:54:56]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a break of 13 hours. The vote will begin in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats so that we can continue our meetings. The vote was closed. When the results come, we'll listen to the head of the Counting Commission. We need to continue to include relevant bills in the agenda. Please prepare for the vote. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food, the Ministry of Social Policy, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10222]] One minute! Take down the vote. Suskevich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to draw attention to this bill, which contains the activities of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, further, and the Ministry of Social Policy. The question is that the Social Affairs Committee, well, especially the disabled, is a defined agrarian committee. And in this situation, I have a request that, given the fact that the Ministry of Social Policy, for example, does not agree with its position under this bill and is a problem in this bill. In all that I realize that there may be absolutely normal proposals for agrarian politics, yet it's clear that after processing for second reading, well, there can't be an agrarian committee on issues of the Ministry of Social Policy. That's what I'd like to point out before the vote on this bill. This is very important and important in terms of committee profile. Issues of professional committees such as the Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u72	Thank you. Let us therefore, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to be included in the agenda, it will also assign the committee to act as a co-rapporteur. I don't think it's gonna be a big deal. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of draft law 10222. Please vote. [[13:03:40]] For 247 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the processing and disposal of household waste. [[Registration number 10120]] Please vote. [[13:04:08]] For 231 Decision taken. I would like to place a motion for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10223]] Please vote. [[13:04:42]] For 251 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the executive bodies of legal persons]] [[Registration number 10312]] Please vote. [[13:05:10]] For 243 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on waste management is put to the vote. [[10075]] Please vote. [[13:05:38]] For 232 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the optimization of the powers of executive authorities in the sphere of ecology and natural resources, including at local level]] [[Registration number 10218]] Please vote. [[13:06:09]] For 256 Decision taken. A proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on improving liability for urban offences is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10139]] Please vote. [[13:06:41]] For 257 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of immediate assistance to persons in a state of emergency. [[Registration number 10227]] Please vote. [[13:07:12]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of the Regions is 26, "BUT" is "Fathership" is 7, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 4, the Communists are 25, "Reforms for the Future" is 2, the People's Party is 0, non-fractional is 2. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislation in Ukraine on the humanisation of legislation and the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of persons in custody and who are being punished in the enforcement institutions. [[Registration number 10316]] Please vote. [[13:08:01]] For-98 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the Most Talented Young Scientists in Fundamental and Applied Research and Technological Development. [[Registration number 10145]] Please vote. [[13:08:36]] For 278 Decision taken. There's a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree on the 125th anniversary of the establishment of the Ascania-Nova Dendrological Park. [[Registration number 10261]] Please vote. Take down the vote. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, our constituents! This is Mrs. Samuelk's bill, representative of the Communist Party. The committee unanimously supported this decision. We think it's very important and it's very important to keep this unique absolutely pearl alive today. And it's not just about celebrating, it's about helping out during the Jubilee, it's about helping this unique dendrological park. I very much ask and our committee asks you to vote and support, and to include this draft decision in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u74	I'm betting on the vote this proposal, this is a draft ruling. [[Registration number 10261]] Please vote. [[13:10:00]] For the 320. Decision taken. Thank you. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. [[Registration number 10311]] Please vote. [[13:10:26]] For 294 Decision taken. Thank you. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the harmonization of legislation in part of the employment standard for disabled persons. [[Registration number 10016]] Please vote. [[13:10:59]] For 134 The decision is not taken. For the faction, please. Region Party 13, "BUT - Fatherland" - 55, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" - 12, communists - 25, "Reforms for the Future" - 1, "The People's Party" - 20, non-fractional - 8. I am voting on the motion to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 10016. Please vote back on the issue of inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:11:42]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Everyone got it. I am voting on the proposal to include in the order of the Act amending article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" to protect the rights of pensioners to modernize pensions. [[Registration number 10234]] Please vote. Take down the vote. Suskewich Valerius, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to pay attention to this bill. Today, pensions under equal conditions of service and earnings assigned to our pensioners vary sometimes by 2-2.5 times, and the difference does not depend on earnings, that is, our pension does not really depend on wages and wages -- it's not normal, it's not pension, it's colleagues. I'm noting that this bill is very considerate in bringing the pension to our pensioners. The bill touches nearly 8 million of our pensioners, whose pensions are actually undervalued because of the absence of an effective system of modernization. That's what the bill is for. By the way, once again, the bill is not populist; it's only up to 30-40 percent of it is taking the first step forward. That's what today is. Government, it's local, it's non-systemic and it doesn't solve the problem. Please support our retirees in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u76	A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 42 of the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory public pension insurance" shall be put to the vote. [[on the Protection of Retired Persons' Rights to the Modernization of Retirement]] [[Registration number 10234]] Please vote. [[13:13:50]] For-142 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Mining Act of Ukraine on compensation for municipal services, please vote. [[Registration number 5294]] [[13:14:18]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. The bill amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Mining Act is put to the vote, please vote. [[on the specificity of education]] [[Registration number 10233]] [[13:14:50]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision on the withdrawal of a number of bills, given the different circumstances. I'll put it to a vote, if anyone has a warning, let me know. This is a motion for a committee to withdraw the draft Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices, this is a regulation, I mean a regulation to draft Law 9361/P, we're taking a decision. [[Registration number 9361/P]] The committee states that the Cabinet of Ministers has proposed to withdraw this legislative initiative from the government. That's why I'm voting. Please vote. [[13:16:08]] For 246 Decision taken. A motion for a draft Repeal Regulation is put to the vote as a decision to withdraw the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure that creditors are required to transfer construction and investment objects. Please vote. [[Project registration number 9334/P]] [[13:16:42]] For 266 Decision taken. A motion for the adoption of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote as a decision to repeal the draft Ukrainian Law on the Concept of Local Self-Government Reform. [[Registration number 9646/P]] Please vote. [[13:17:12]] For 254 Decision taken. The proposal to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the draft Law on the Concept of State Policy against the Harmful Use of Alcohol by the People of Ukraine for the period 2011-2020. Please take off the vote. Taras Chernobyl, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! I am definitely against voting now for the draft bill, this concept. Improperly reasoned suggestions on why it should be removed. It's said that it can only be taken by decision, it's all mixed up, and if you look at it whole, I feel like there's so much noise in this room against the anti-tumpet-like company, and I'm saying there are two factors. The first is corruption. And the second moment is to quietly hide behind the noise of anti-tungsten real activity of this liquor and methadone mob, which unfortunately released its claws into this parliament. I think that this document, this concept can only be adopted by law, not by decree, paragraph one. Item two. There really are a lot of healthy, good things. There are some inadequacies that can be removed in the second reading procedure. So I am convinced that we need to preserve and consider this bill as quickly as possible. And every alcoholic mob and stuff like that, who, unfortunately, wants to run the Supreme Council, wants to run it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Please, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u79	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I support the opinion of the previous speaker. The bill introduced by the people's deputies Shevchuk, Bachtej and Haydiv is the bill that society needs today. We need to start listening to him, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The other question is whether or not we need to finish it. But to prevent harmful use of alcohol, and this problem needs to be done for many years, it needs to be heard directly. Look, go out on the Crusader, go out on the other side of the street, go through the villages. You can see what's happening. Unloadedness, singleness of youth. The fact that they're even the first to find a job, because we don't guarantee it, today has led us to destroy the population. And we'll take the Chinese, the Koreans. I have no objection to these nations. But we drive, God knows who. But we don't produce our own population. That's what you need to hear. You can't film this concept, it's smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u80	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u81	Vladimir Karpuk. Dear National Deputies! Unfortunately, there is no author of the bill by Sergei Volodymyrovich Shevchuk. Instead, a more sophisticated bill has been prepared. And that's the only way to do it. So to clear this way, to register a more perfect new bill that takes into account all the proposals made by the national MPs. So I ask for your support, and there will be a new bill registered tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u82	I've been swinging, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u83	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The only reason this bill is proposed to be withdrawn is because the Cabinet of Ministers is currently preparing a draft State Health-2020 programme for approval. And we believe that this can simply become an integral part of this programme. So that's the only reason it's taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, there are various suggestions. What's really interesting is that we're conceptually trying to fight alcoholism. We'll write another piece of paper, I'll look at it, it's very correct, all the words are written, and there's nothing behind them, and then we'll cover it up like a shield and everything. But there are two suggestions. The committee proposes to withdraw. I'm voting on the first proposal. If not, it will be the commission of the committee to work. Please vote. Registration number 7772/P. To make a decision on this matter. [[13:22:23]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 178, "BUT – "Batkaščina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 5, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 20, non-fractional – 9. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw and withdraw the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure on Prevention of Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedure. [[Registration number 8706/P]] Please vote. [[13:23:16]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the motion for a decision to withdraw the draft Law on State regulation of the activities of natural monopolies in the field of transport is put to the vote. [[Registration number 9668]] The Cabinet of Ministers has requested that this bill be returned for further processing. I am voting on the proposal for a corresponding decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:24:05]] For 257 A motion for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw the draft Act on Derivatives is put to the vote. [[derivatives]] Please, Stanislav Arjevetin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u85	I took the floor just to say that this bill was prepared by a colleague from our committee of Prasolov. And I wanted to say that if we call it off now, there's going to be a whole other group of authors, but I would like to point out that Prassolov has done a very big job with this bill. It's a very important bill that defines derivatives that we actually don't have yet to work on. [[derivatives]] And I wanted to emphasize that we remember that the author of this bill, the original author, is Prassolov, because we're going to put it with a group of authors after a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u86	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u87	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It's half-truth. Indeed, the author is Praslov, a member of the Party of the Regions, but he asked for support for the decision to withdraw the bill because a larger bill and a more professionally prepared bill would be submitted to the Supreme Council on this issue. Therefore, the author's position to withdraw the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote on the adoption of a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal the draft Ukrainian Act on Derivatives. [[derivatives]] [[Registration number of draft decision 8576/P]] Please vote. [[13:26:14]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before continuing to consider the issues outlined in the schedule, I would ask that we consult on one question. You and I haven't made a decision on Friday -- "hours of questions to the government." But an "hour of questions to the government" has to be mandatory, because that requires two laws. If you don't mind, because we're having a social debate here, you might want to listen to the Minister of Social Policy and work about how social initiatives are being implemented, what is being done and what needs to be done, including by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. We'll assume that we've made our decision. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[concerning the sorting of the tax declaration]] [[Registration number 10281]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee of Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! According to the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the short term of the bill, a bill under registration number 10281 on amendments to the Tax Code and some other laws of Ukraine was submitted to your consideration. [[concerning the sorting of the tax declaration]] The bill received 19 proposals from national deputies, of which 15 were rejected, 4 were rejected. I would like to remind you that the bill proposes to clearly define in the Tax Code the order in which individuals who work exclusively for one job and individuals who work for two or more jobs. It is suggested that individuals who work at one job, regardless of the type and size of the income received, should not submit a tax declaration by 1 May. Such individuals report to the quarterly tax agent, and the tax authorities have all the information about income received and taxes paid. By April 1, these individuals and family members had already declared their income at their place of work. This obligation is established under the Law on Principles and Opposition to Corruption. With regard to individuals who work one job or more and who receive more than 120 minimum wage per year, they have the same obligation to submit two declarations. One by anti-corruption legislation and the other by tax law. So one by April 1st and the other by May 1st. This is also true of those civil servants and government officials who receive additional income from such activities as scientific activity, dividends, perhaps deposits and other incomes that are not considered by the employer. Thus, the committee proposes to adopt a second-reading bill that will simplify the declaration procedure for government officials and individuals who are actually working for the state. Because this applies to doctors, teachers, and utility workers, all of whom work together. This was because tax legislation had been enacted since January 1, 2011, and anticorruption legislation had been enacted one year after the adoption of the Tax Code. So we're going to take this two-pronged interpretation off the table to simplify these procedures. Therefore, it is suggested that this law be adopted in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get this straight. Those who insist on these amendments will then be voted on. Yuri Carmazin, your amendment is essentially accounted for. Are you insisting on her? 11th. No, it's not. Vladimir Yavorowski, 12th Amendment Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u91	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, it seems to me that when we first adopted this bill, this article, which we are discussing right now, seemed to me that it was much more accurate, more accurate and more understandable. And the changes that have been made to it have been legislatively established to replace its submission with the cases set out in this chapter. I feel like it's going to confuse the situation even more. That's why I insist. to leave a valid line in the first reading. She understands, she's logical, she's in her place. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u92	Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u93	In fact, it's about technical things that aren't principled. But when we consulted the Ministry of Justice, we went to such an office. It's not a principle, but I'm still proposing that it stay in the committee's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u94	Amendment 12 is put to the vote to support it. [[13:32:21]] For-13. Correction not supported. Correction 13, Valerius Beales. Microphone. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Jojik, 14th Amendment. Jaroslav Jojik, please. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u95	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Respectful colleagues, the mandatory procedure for comparing declared income and expenditure, is a kind of foundation for a possible effective fight against corruption. In real life, it is not uncommon for an unarmed eye to see the difference between the income and expenditure of an official. At the same time, there are no responses from law enforcement agencies. Therefore, the proposed amendment is to oblige the tax authority to send to the relevant law enforcement authorities material that shows that income and expenditure are inadequate. Or the facts of the purchase of property, goods, or services at underpriced prices have been revealed, other facts that may indicate corruption. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u96	Welcome to Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u97	That is to say, it is actually about giving the right, not the right, but the obligation to transfer all information to the Ukrainian Security Service within 10 days. We don't think that's appropriate. If there is such a need for the Ukrainian Security Service to take any information, coordination between the DPS and the BSS can be done without any obligation. Thus, the amendment is proposed to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, let's now determine when we vote. It's kind of an interesting correction. But I think we all stand on the point that the Security Service should be responsible for the security of the state, not during election campaigns, so that there's no complaints that someone there needs information. That's why you're so determined. I'll put it to a vote. If this amendment deserves attention, it is obvious that after the political campaign has been completed. I'm putting to the vote Amendment 14 to support it. [[13:35:04]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Amendment 18, Vladimir Yavorowski. It says here that it is essentially included in the proposals of both Homutinika and Carmazin. Microphone, please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u99	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I understand something. Some of the remains, as it were, of my proposal, are included in Homutinnik and Carmazin's amendments. However, it seems to me that the amendment I made is more accurate. What's the matter? And the thing is, you know very well and you realize that most people today are doing everything they can not to declare their relatives, who, by the way, have written down a lot of property and money and so forth. Because if we want real transparency and understanding and no one hides anything, my amendment tells us that the person who claims to take office as a civil servant and held officials declare property, income, expenses, and expenses, and the obligation of financial nature in accordance with the Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption. The declaration includes information on income and financial obligations, including abroad, as well as information about family members. And this amendment applies both to local self-government, to the President, and to national MPs, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u100	Please allow the justification to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u101	I'd like to vote for it. It's very important, and there's nothing to be afraid of.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u102	Welcome to Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u103	It's in the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u104	Mr. Head, I'm sorry, I want to make a statement. Please. It's just come to light.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u105	Turn off the microphone. Wait a minute. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u106	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u107	One minute! Come on. Well, one minute, please! Now, let's make a statement, let's finish this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u108	We demand an immediate statement from the Attorney General. and the immediate admission of doctors, deputies to Timoshenko, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u109	We have to say it humanly. I'll do it. But I'm offering him, and he won't listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u110	I want to say it again. And again, until the Attorney General is here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u111	I'm asking you, let's do it this way. Let's make a deal. We have to do this. Well, listen, I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u112	You want a civil war?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u113	I'm begging you, don't push me out. Please! Let's do it this way. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! Let's do that. If you have to make a statement. Can you listen or not? Let's finish this discussion right now, you'll do, three minutes, a statement. And then we'll make a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you humanly. I'm begging you! I told you, if you need to make a statement, I did. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you want a war for? Why are you here scaring me with war? What am I doing? Tell me that's not what I'm doing? Make a statement, if necessary, and then make a decision, you don't want to listen. What else will you do, please tell me? I'm asking you, let's finish the question now, then we'll make a statement. No problem. I'm asking you humanly. Please! I put to the vote Amendment 18 of Vladimir Yavorowski. [[13:39:33]] For the All other amendments are included. No, it's Jaroslav Jojik's 19th amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we agreed, now one more vote, we'll finish the discussion. I can't stop, you don't want to understand! Well, you're normal people, adults. Don't insist. All other amendments have been voted on. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and generally as the law of the draft law. [[Registration number 10281]] Please vote. [[13:40:17]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you not to object. I'd like to give you my word for Pashinski's three minutes. Please. No objections? Well, don't bother. Please. Well, please. The scream will continue to stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u114	Respectable citizens, respected colleagues, who still have a drop of conscience! I have to inform you of an unprecedented, wild incident that occurred four days ago during the transport of Julia Volodymyrna to the hospital. The convoy used force, kicked her in the stomach, had a hematoma on her stomach, twisted her hands, and stabbed her in the torso several times. On Monday, Julia Volodymyrna registered the correct statement. That is why Vlasenek was denied permission all day Monday. That's why they didn't start it before lunch today either. I'm on behalf of the Fatherland faction of BUT and I think I'm officially claiming on behalf of the faction of "Our Ukraine." We're not leaving this place until the Attorney General is here with a detailed explanation. We will not leave here until there is the head of the fascist service, who is currently in prison, and until there is a decision on the admission of national deputies, medics, including from the Party of the Regions, to Julius Volodymyrna for her review. We demand it immediately, and we will not leave this place. And I want to address the people of Ukraine again. Today, Janukovich’s regime has crossed all bounds. It's a start, I don't know what it is anymore. I want to say again, it's going to end badly. Think of yourself and your future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm about to make an urgent request for official written information from the Attorney General's Office, the Penitentiary. Well, one minute, come on, guys, listen up! From the penitentiary system and from the Ministry of Health, we will continue to consider. Let's make the project right, the decision when there is, let's make it and consider it. Am I against it or what? That's how they let a lawyer do it. Well, so I did what the will was done. Well, it was done, so what else do you want from me? I'll give you the right information now, please. So let's do it this way. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I'll get the written information. And before that, please let Sherschun's microphone know about the results of the election. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute! Give me a chance now. Do it. The word is given to the head of the Shershun Counterfeiting Commission, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u116	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Protocol number two meetings of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Organisation Sherschun, head of the Counting Commission, is the deputy head of the Vyezovsky Counting Commission, Secretary of the Chago Counting Commission, members of the Counting Commission. They heard about the conclusion of the secret ballot on the appointment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights. In the ballot paper for the secret ballot on the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights, Lutkovska Valeria Volodymyrni was nominated. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established: the number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized as 450; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots, 273; The number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote is 269; Number of invalid ballots – 3; No candidate is supported - 14; the name and surname of the candidate Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna; The number of votes cast for candidate is 252. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 17, of the Constitution, articles 6 and 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, and chapter 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee decided to consider the appointment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights of the Lutkov Valerija Volodymyrovna. The head of the Counting Commission, the deputy, the secretary of the Counting Commission, the members of the Counting Commission signatures are. There is a separate opinion by the deputy of Vizevski and Oliynik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-24-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! Just a minute. Let me finish. Morning session, please calm down! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
