ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. 10: 01:04 The 415 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 8, 2012, plenary meeting. As a result of the work, 4 decrees were passed, 3 bills were adopted on a basis, 5 bills and 2 draft decrees were rejected. Yes, the distinguished national MPs, the two factions -- the Faction of the Fatherland and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", according to the Rules, require a recess to be announced for consultations on issues of order and declaration. There's gonna be a statement, right? Who will make the statement? Andrew Kozemyakin. Who, who? Oh, Roman Zabzaluk, please. Well, then we start working. When he does, we'll make a statement. Dear people's deputies, well, there are, yes, please come on. Yes, please. 10: 02: 46
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u2	Honourable compatriots, as a result of the "Fatherland" party and the "Timoshenko-Patkashina" bloc of Yulia, have made it evident that the authorities of the criminal oligarchy will try in any way to preserve themselves in power and not only to preserve themselves, but also to try to build a criminal anti-national dictatorship, because they believe that this is the only way to avoid being justly responsible for the misrepresentation of the country, the destruction of democracy and the social rights and freedoms of citizens, the introduction of total repressions against democratic forces and their leaders, such as Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka and others. The fact that the criminal oligarchy, which usurped power in Ukraine, acts according to the principle of improving the lives of the oligarchs today, and the citizens of Ukraine -- poverty and the fate of the oligarchs in their own country -- is a complete disregard of the regime of the Constitution of Ukraine. This is the destruction, the transformation of Parliament into an office allowance to the Interigree, and the law enforcement and judicial system into a tool to carry out the insatiable and bloodthirsty demands of criminal oligarchy. And it's also quite obvious that the regime, by creating "battle metastasis" in the Supreme Council, applies the immoral doctrine of manipulation, bribery, blackmail, addiction and obedience and obedience, even the controlling majority. In fact, it is a brutal doctrine of the dictatorship of conversion, including the legislative branch of power, into a tool for legitimizing criminal decisions by the narrow oligarchy clan and the continued impunity of the Ukrainian people. We argue that the Ribakova MP group was artificially created by the leader of the current regime, with direct instructions from the President, solely for the purpose of conducting provocations against Yulia Timoshenko, the Fatherland Party and the respective faction, the opposition forces of the country as a whole and the sub-killimal influence on the elements of the pro-President majority. It was formed in its majority by those who, for the sake of a fine piece and personal preferences, betrayed their electorate and the political forces who delegated them to Parliament. Their so - called work was richly financed by a criminal call based on the Bank’s. No step has been taken, and the group's vote has been carried out without agreement with the President's Administration. In large numbers, the entire voting system of the "carcase group" has been turned into a bargain and pressure. The other one. At the current stage, the Bank's "group of carcasses" was tasked with recruiting members of the opposition forces for anything, as well as making complete preparations for falsification in the parliamentary elections. How's that? Working, and actually bribing with future candidates in majority districts from opposition forces. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u4	In the future, coordination of the regime's actions with regard to the use of administrative resources to support such candidates. By ignoring any political party property. In order to form the next Supreme Council of the so-called Presidential majority. At the same time, implement a scheme for full control of the future composition of district election committees, district election committees, by forming them on the basis of direct bribery.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u5	Thank you, thank you. Please sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Well, why don't you sit down, what else do you need? Have a seat. Honorable National Deputies, in connection with Jehovah’s Witnesses. In connection with the published information, I contacted the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council to initiate immediate committee investigations. Invite two figures of this kind of scandal or scandal. Let him set up an investigation. The other one. I asked the Attorney General's Office to conduct detailed investigations and file relevant documents with the Supreme Council. And I think in order to clean up the Supreme Council, we're going to have to accept, if we're going to set this up, the truth. And I think I think it'll be right for today's Supreme Council and all the next ones! Dear colleagues and I would like to ask you, in principle, to address this issue. For I have spoken in my declaration, and now I will tell you, from the time of Judah prices have risen, and morals have fallen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honourable National Deputies, according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Cernovol Taras Vejacheslavovic, from the MP's "Reform for the Future". () [[Applause]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the issue of the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on improving the use of defence land. Honorable National MPs. Please, is there a committee head? Please, the microphone. 10: 09: 10
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like you to move to the next plenary week to consider this issue, because there are still some disagreements that we found out last night. So please move on to the next plenary week, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u7	No objections? None. We'll put it off for next week. But I would like to prepare this matter immediately. Now, dear colleagues, the next question. Addressing disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Violations of Installation, Use of Special Light or Audio Signal Devices. [[Registration number 9293]] Honourable National Deputies, on December 7, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences at the same time as the first reading and, in general, as a law, taking into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies at the plenary meeting. [[on increasing responsibility for disrupting the installation and use of special light or audio, signal devices]] As a result of the execution of the mandate of the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 08.12.2011, number 11/9-67 by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement, together with the Chief Legal Authority in the text of the law, article 122 with the "5" badge is supplemented by a new footnote. In this regard, the draft law for signature is not identical to the text of the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 07.12.2011. For the purpose of removing the conflict law, it is also proposed to change the name and to clarify the content of the article. In view of the foregoing, I am submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a text prepared by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement by the Chief Legal Administration of the text of the law on the procedure provided for in the 131 Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The corresponding document is given to you. That's why I'm putting to the vote, my esteemed colleagues, to remove the differences in the text of the law. Please vote. 10: 12: 09 For 262 Decision taken. Yuri Carmazin. Microphone. 10: 12: 17
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u8	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, thank you for the opportunity to protest non-constitutional actions that take place in the form of disagreements in the text of the adopted law. A kind of coma adopted in this room is a rule of law that can only be changed when you have to re-examine each of those comas or suggestions. We change the names of the laws, we change the names of the articles, we turn the work, you know, into something that the apparatus did is much more important than what the MPs did. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this has nothing to do with the quality of the laws. I'll tell you more, I'd rather the last year of the Supreme Council be locked away in general than the fact that it's ruined legislation. As a result, we need to make second readings again in this case, and this will correspond to both the spirit and the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a decision in accordance with article 131. There are no violations. And according to the latest proposal for work, what the Supreme Council has not been working on, your fellow dignitaries, please write your statements. And let's stop this conversation: it worked, it didn't work. Let's work. I agree with you that the quality of the laws, Yuri Anatoliovich, that the quality of the laws should be raised, I said this during the opening of the session. I'm in solidarity with you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status and Perspectives of the Military Organization and the Security Sector of Ukraine is under review. [[April 2012]] Asked to consider the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote. 10: 14: 42 For 234 Decision taken. The reporter is Sergey Greenewecki, the first deputy head of the committee and the national deputy, and clearly, the co-rapporteur is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Anatoly Grizzenko. Please. 10: 15: 01
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft decree is proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on 25 April 2012 on the status and prospects for the development of the Ukrainian Military Organization and the security sector. The need for parliamentary hearings was long overdue. I would like to remind you that the security and defence sector of the State has been the subject of a comprehensive debate in parliamentary hearings almost 13 years ago. We believe that this level of discussion in the session room will allow us to draw the attention of the society, the leadership of the state, the representatives of all branches of government to the problems of protecting sovereignty, Ukraine's territorial integrity and, as a result of the discussion, to get constructive proposals for legislative solutions. Many factors testify to this. In particular, Ukraine has adopted the Law on Fundamentals of Internal and External Policy, which has declared non-blocking policy. Unfortunately, so far, the Presidential Decree of 10 December 2010 has not been implemented to approve a new edition of Ukraine's national security strategy, military doctrine, as well as a series of state programmes for the development of arms and military technology. Experts estimate that our Armed Forces are the longest military in the region with the smallest percentage of the technology. You remember that the President of Ukraine, in his letter, acknowledged that our Armed Forces were only limitedly prepared to carry out their constitutional duty. Despite all the talk in the state, there is no modern defence and industrial complex and system management in this area. We believe that the social protection of military personnel and their families, the implementation of legally defined rights and guarantees, remains extremely sensitive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u12	We don't think there's any need to identify the whole set of problems right now, and there's no question about their existence. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u13	Anatoly Grizzenko, head of the committee. 10: 17: 32
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee unanimously voted in favour of holding such parliamentary hearings, and would ask the Chamber to support the draft relevant decision, because, indeed, the systemic issues of the development of a military organization, the clear definition of functions, the search for a balance between threats, the capacity of the State to locate them, as we have seen recently, including the human resources policy in these structures, need a serious solution and Parliament's opinion must be taken into account. Please support and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to discuss matters? If anyone insists, please sign in. Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Grivkowski will be next. 10: 18: 27
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the issue is really, really important to the country, and we understand that in the last two years there has never been a reform program for the Armed Forces. The situation, indeed, is very critical and yesterday's personnel decision by the President is confirmed. So I agree with the initiative to hold parliamentary hearings and really to understand that the situation and situation of the Ukrainian army is really critical. So I am asking for support and I understand that we will be able to formulate very effectively the position of the Supreme Council in order to ensure that the policy of the Armed Forces is consistent and effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u17	Grivkovsky's handing over to whom? He's refusing? Yuri Carmazin. The "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. 10: 19: 26
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u18	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how you are, but yesterday I was offended by a 46 million people who apparently couldn't raise, couldn't give birth to a Ukrainian defence minister. I was offended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which today has no authority to do so. Tomorrow with the CIA, the guy's deputy minister or minister -- we'll take that as a good idea, it's not going to be an extraordinary event for Ukraine. By the year 99, he was still a citizen of another state, unknown to whom and where, when he was working, he showed himself here in all beauty, with his nose pierced. My colleague was in the hospital for over a month. I'm talking about Karpuk. He's got a secretary of defense now. Is there anything to discuss in the defense? Yes. Because of this, Your Honor, it's obvious that the anti-constitutional things were done by the Constitutional Court when it brought us back to feudalism with you. We have only one feud today, and his name is Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, President of Ukraine. Because of this, these changes to the Constitution are made and the role of Parliament is lost. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you and I are losing authority. The point was that we no longer have an officer, no one to whom we would appoint a Ukrainian officer. We are assigned only from another State. When will this stop? There's something to discuss. Therefore, these parliamentary hearings should be held. Oh, that's right! But we have to make it clear that what happened yesterday is once again the Hand of the Kremlin. Victor Fedorovich, come on! Do not make such assignments as you did.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now put to the vote the draft decree. I have a request and a request to the author and to the committee: let's set a date. Not just April of the month. Two dates are possible: April 11th and April 25th. When does the committee find it necessary? 25th? So I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on 25 April 2012 on the status and prospects for the development of the military organisation and the security sector of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9155]] Please vote. 10: 22: 39 For 364 Decision taken. Honourable National MPs, the draft Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code is under review. [[new editor]] Registration numbers 9700, 9700-1. The proposal to consider such a procedure. Reporters are as required by the Rules. Communicators are as required by the Rules. Then there's the factions. And then you speak to the MPs. Let's see, 30 minutes is enough? The rules require less. I'd like to propose more to the MPs. If you don't mind, let's do it this way. Should I vote? No, it's not. Then I remind you once again, the reporters in accordance with Rules - 10 and 5. Communicator in accordance with the Rules. Faction performances are 15 minutes. We have six factions? 18 minutes. Next, 30 minutes for discussion. Enough time? If there is a problem with continuing the discussion, then you and I will make a decision. I invite you to the report of President Volodimirovic of Ukraine, Head of the General Directorate for Judicial Affairs of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Portnova Andrija Volodymirovich, on the draft law. [[Registration number 9700]] And from the basis of the bill under registration number 9700-1, the National Deputy of Ukraine Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich will speak as the author of the alternative bill. Correspondent head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Victor Dmitrovitch Sweden Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Head of State proposes to the Ukrainian society a new Criminal Procedure Code. It is known that the Criminal Procedure Code of 1960 is in force in Ukraine today. It is obvious to us that this code does not meet the requirements of time, since it is not able to ensure or ensure the proper level of effective criminal justice, nor to guarantee respect for human rights in criminal proceedings. Regrettably, at this time, there is a model of criminal justice that is characterized by an apparent indictability, a lack of protection of the effective mechanisms to bring its position before the court, a premeditation of excessive restrictions on the constitutional rights of the parties to the trial, such as the unwarranted high level of the number of persons held in custody, the widespread use of non-voice investigative actions, the low efficiency of trial and judicial procedures, the excessiveness of investigation and investigation, the lack of judicial control over the application of measures that limit human rights and the excessive dissension of criminal proceedings. This list can be continued. This quality of the legal basis for criminal justice no doubt has a significant impact on the application of the law by law enforcement officials and the courts. The consequences of such a state of affairs are vividly demonstrated by statistics on plausible sentences, which do not exceed 1 percent of all court sentences. The Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code has been drafted by two international experts. The Council of Europe appointed experts to work on this document and successfully after two discussions of this document in the Council of Europe it was proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The basics of this document. The first thing that's being introduced is equality and competition in criminal implementation. The Parties are invited to give the maximum level of procedural rights. The defence party, like the prosecution party, will have the right: to file evidence with the court, to involve witnesses at the level of the prosecutor, to engage experts on their own to conduct an expert study, including mandatory, to obtain access to and remove documents from the court, to take care of the conduct of investigations, to participate in their conduct, and to appeal against their conduct before the court. To perform other actions that can ensure that independent and admissible evidence is brought before the court. The Code proposes to strengthen judicial control in criminal proceedings. According to the new document, only a judge decides to select all kinds of precautions and extend their terms. Placing an arrest on property. Accessing and deleting documents. Forcing a person to appear before the prosecutor of the court. Permission to search any premises can now be granted solely by decision of the court. The next is an additional investigation. This is a shameful norm that existed in Ukraine for 50 years. According to a new document in Ukraine, the institute of further investigation is being completely shut down. The trial must be concluded solely by an accusatory or acquittal. This means that in Ukraine over the first year of application, more than 30 percent of the plausible sentences can be applied. The next is the precautionary measure. One of the main precautions to protect a citizen is the introduction of a bribe. I would like to inform you that in just two weeks of application in Ukraine of the Law on the Humanitarianization of Liability for Domestic Crimes into Depository Accounts of the State Treasury, 88 million dollars have already been pledged. The draft proposal is to set a wager of between 5,000 and 300,000 dollars. And to put in place a principal mechanism whereby, even if the court applies a precautionary measure to a person in the form of a security guard, the court should determine the size of the bet for which a person can perform procedural duties without being in the detention facility. This rule will work for all crimes except violent crimes. Next. It is proposed to establish a new form of preventive action in the form of home arrest. The Code also proposes to unite the separate stages of research and pretrial investigation into one - trial investigation. One progressive novel, one of the progressive novels of the Codex, is the protection of the victim. The Code proposes a significant simplification of the victim’s admission procedure. The person now applies for a crime and automatically acquires the status of the victim, and from this point on, after filing a claim, he can use the rights, file evidence, claim trouble, participate in the investigation, use security measures, sue law enforcement, get copies of documents and make a reconciliation agreement with the suspect. I recall that according to the existing code, a person applies for a crime and only the investigator makes a decision as to whether he or she will be considered a victim. The next is an investigation procedure. In Ukraine, there can no longer be such a phrase as "crime violation" which in itself limits the constitutional rights of citizens. The beginning of the investigation is shrinking considerably. If, earlier after the crime claim, there was an investigation, a survey of persons, a search of documents, a search and investigation, then a criminal case was committed, and then an investigation and a re-examination of persons, other investigations were initiated, all of this is now being cut down almost three times. Now it's just a statement of crime and immediate investigation. The Criminal Procedure Code also offers two significant novels, that's the deal. The first agreement is a reconciliation agreement. It is made up between the victim and the suspect. It cannot be done in the conduct of serious and particularly serious crimes. Such an agreement harmonizes with the penalty to be imposed by the accused court and indicates the extent of the damage to the victim. This can make a significant difference in the situation of reparation, for the suspect, accused, and defendant in the law in force have no interest in redressing such harm. The next deal is a plea agreement. It consists of a prosecutor and a suspect, and it can reconcile the punishment that is to be imposed by the accused court and is to be found to be suspected of being guilty and his duty to cooperate in the detection of another crime. We believe that this rule will improve the crime investigation situation. Next. It's the prosecutor's mandate in the criminal trial. During all criminal proceedings, both during the course of the investigation and during the trial, one person executes the prosecutor’s authority. Shortening the prosecutor's authority. Under the new code, the prosecutor won't have the right to require any kind of case to carry out his own investigation. The D.A. won't be able to arrest the property. And this is news for entrepreneurs and business people. The prosecutor will no longer be able to choose precautionary measures, allowing searches to be carried out in premises that are not housing. Remove all documents and stuff except weapons, narcotics. He will not be able to make decisions about a person’s compulsion. He can't take a person out of office. And most of all. He will not be able to use as evidence in court the individual’s testimony. We believe and expect a change in the quality of prosecutors in relation to the validity of such a law. The prosecutor will direct the investigation and will have to investigate the quality of the investigation because he answers it from the beginning to the end of the investigation. He must constantly justify and prove in court the need for procedural decisions, such as property arrest, search, precautionary action, and so forth. The prosecutor will be opposed by a defender who will have completely mirroring mechanisms to prove his position. Next. It's a demonstration. The court has the right to use and justify court decisions solely with evidence obtained in court or in the presence of a judge in the course of an investigation. According to the new document, the testimony given to the investigator and the prosecutor does not have any evidentiary power for the court. Can I have two minutes, Vladimir Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u21	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u22	As a result, the use of violence or threats to force a person to give evidence to the investigator or the prosecutor has disappeared, since such statements are, under any circumstances, irrelevant to the court. The next is the limitation of inexplicable investigations. For the first time, we have made an exclusive list of indiscretions that can be applied by the authorities of the previous investigation. They will now be held exclusively on serious and particularly serious crimes. As for other crimes, any restriction on the constitutional rights of citizens, including operational and technical ones, is unacceptable. The next is a reduction in the length of the investigation. It is estimated that the investigation period will not be more than 2 months. They may be extended up to six months if it comes to crimes that are not serious. After serious and particularly serious crimes, the investigation can only be continued for up to 12 months. Now, I remind you, there are no terms at all for keeping a person in custody. In addition to the measures that make it impossible to keep a person in custody, which I have reported, there can be no more than six months worth of custody, and for serious and particularly serious crimes, more than 12 months. The next is criminal conduct in the form of a private charge. The point is that if a person commits a crime that harms another person but does not harm society, such cases will be dealt with in the form of a private accusation. Such conduct may be initiated only on the basis of the victim’s claims and may be closed in the event of the victim’s refusal. The next novel is the jury court. In Ukraine it is proposed that the execution of the jury’s judicial conduct should be in cases of permanent deprivation of liberty. Ukraine chooses the continental model of jury court: two judges and three jurors, together, will decide the issue of guilt, qualifications and punishment. This model exists in Germany -- three judges and two jurors. In France there are two judges and nine jurors. Greece — three judges and five jurors. Austria is two judges and two jurors. And Sweden is two judges or three jurors. The next is the introduction of new technologies in the criminal process, the introduction of video conferences is a significant time savings and the cost savings in criminal conduct. It's suggested that we send out a commission to hold video conferences from one court to another by email. The appearance of a person to the nearest court and the holding of a court hearing in video conference mode. This law is proposed to the Final and Transitional Regulations, which amend up to 70 other laws that provide for changes in legislation that regulate operational and search activities, prosecution legislation, lawyers and others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. People's deputies would like to sign up for a question, if any, to the rapporteur. Names of the national MPs, please put them on the board. National MP Filipenko, non-fractional, please, your question. 10: 38: 48
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u24	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, as we understand it, the draft Code of Criminal Procedure proposes the introduction of such a concept as "criminal misconduct." This is a new concept for the legal field of our nation. And can you say a few words about this, or is the working group working in this direction in particular? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u25	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Philipovich. I want to inform you that one of the sections of the Criminal Procedure Code is that criminal offences, or small crimes, are investigated in the most simplified order possible. To do that, we're going to be able to unload all the militia raids, and we're going to be able to unload those law enforcement officers who, today, through their bureaucracy and the constant increase in paperwork, can no longer actually investigate crimes. We're proposing a whole section of Criminal Conduct in Criminal Offences, in the Final and Transitional Positions there's a reference to a separate law on criminal misconduct. This work is already under way, and in 2-3 months, the Ukrainian Parliament will be proposing a draft Ukrainian Criminal Offences Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u26	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. 10: 40: 09
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u27	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to your colleague Valery Pisarenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u28	Valerius Pisarenko, microphone. 10: 40: 16
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, you know, I am no doubt a supporter of that document that you are presenting, and, indeed, I think it is the second most significant document after the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to ask you something else. You know, well, in general, in the session room, everyone thinks the document is important and it needs to be accepted. Sadly, though, in recent times individual politicians have been saying that, unfortunately, this code is trying to hide what is being pushed out of the trial, out of the criminal trial, and out of the defense. Please tell me, what does a criminal lawyer really mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u30	Thank you, Reverend Valery Volodymyrovich. I also heard yesterday a statement by highly respected members of the opposition factions that, as if in the form of this document, lawyers in specific resonant criminal cases would be removed from the criminal process. We consider these statements to be such that they do not fit the reality for the following reasons. First, absolutely 100 percent of Ukrainian lawyers are automatically registered with lawyers and will be able to exercise their powers as they are today. Secondly, any legislative changes to lawyers according to the Final Regulations of the Code take effect one year from now. And third, as to the kind of parental restriction that they won't be participating in the trial in a year. I want to read a line from the Council of Europe expert opinion of October 13, 2010 on the Law on Lawyers. I quote: "It should be noted that the various amendments to the laws aim at the monopoly of lawyers on representation and defence in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u31	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u32	Civil, administrative and criminal conduct. And experts from the Council of Europe see this as a great benefit, which will ensure the quality of legal services in judicial conduct and serve to improve the quality of the administration of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u33	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, faction of the Company, please. 10: 42: 37
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u34	Thank you. Please report to the Lechchenk faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u35	Vladimir Leschenko, microphone. 10: 42: 45
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u36	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Andrija Volodymyrovich, at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement, I asked you why the draft Code of Criminal Procedure was not conceptually compatible with the Criminal Code, but in many articles, and with the Constitution of Ukraine. It would be logical to make changes to material legislation and then to procedural legislation. Give an answer so everyone can hear. And the second. Please confirm that the draft Code of Criminal Procedure stipulates that the court, together with the approval of a criminal conviction, also takes a decision on the size of the mortgage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. First. The draft Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is fully in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine proposed to the Ukrainian Parliament. There is no violation of the Constitution in this project. That's the first one. The second is about reforming first criminal justice and then criminal proceedings. I want you to know that the criminal justice parliament changed 10 years ago, and the criminal trial was 51 years ago. That is why we consider it our highest priority today to reform criminal justice, especially since Ukraine made such a commitment back in 1995. As for the mortgage, your third question. That's right, the court has to decide when making any sentence to which the mortgage goes. At the same time, I would like to remind you that a mortgage may be turned into a state’s income in the event of a failure by suspects or accused persons of their procedural duties prior to the judgment of a court of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u38	And one last question. Haydajal, a faction of Communists. 10: 44: 44
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u39	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Behiz Valeri Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u40	Valerius Beales, microphone. 10: 44: 48
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u41	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I have a very pragmatic question. Please tell me, how and how is the draft of the new Criminal Procedure Code in line with article 9 of the Constitution? Please, more details.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u42	I am. You mean the D.A.'s office, right? Indeed, according to the Ukrainian Constitution, we should change the Ukrainian Prosecutor’s Law within five years. That is why the Head of State created a working group to reform the system of prosecutors and lawyers. The first is the Law on Lawyers, which will be proposed to the Ukrainian Parliament between the first and second readings of the Criminal Procedure Code. As far as the prosecution's legislation is concerned, we believe that this work should also include the final position of the Constitution that you have mentioned, including regulating the general supervision and representation of the prosecutor in court. I can absolutely say that all these questions will be proposed to Parliament within two or three months after we have completed the review of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code and the Ukrainian Bar Association Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u43	Andry Volodymyrovich, thank you, too. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please, your report. 10: 49: 17
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You think there are two projects that seem to be similar. Many articles say that the same positions are the same. It's not surprising, because the work on these projects, it was one project at the time, started as a minimum, since 2005******, maybe even before, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine was living within the framework of the Commission for the Strengthening of Democracy. Although, in practice, the same experts worked there. These projects, when they were another project, were also being worked on by experts from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This work has been done by many experts in criminal and constitutional law. Finally, they have a visible influence and a strong contribution each of them has made in the past ten years by the minister of justice. I understand that, of course, most in this room will most likely support a presidential project with its positive findings from international experts. Instead, I'd like to convince you all to support my project. I can't say the president's project is bad, no. It has many progressive realities, even revolutionary money. It also contains hidden dangers that can strike at each of the audiences in this room. I'd like to explain why. Benjamin Franklin once said that the most important task, but at the same time the most difficult task facing every democratic society, is to protect a person from the abuse of power. He explained that the State retains the monopoly right to use force legally, and the only way to limit the will of the rapists arbitrarily to use force against man is to put in front of them as many procedural barriers and obstacles as possible that would prevent any abuse. This is the fundamental role of a legal act that regulates the criminal process. I dare say that after the Constitution of Ukraine, it is the most important document that can exist in the country’s legal field. Now, I'd like to give you a statistic that I'd like to ask you, your esteemed colleagues, to think carefully, and so that you and I can make sure of the country we live in with you. In the harshest times of Stalin’s repression, the percentage of justifiable sentences was 10 percent of all criminal cases tried in the courts. In Kingdom Russia, this figure was 30 percent. Today, only 0.2 percent of all criminal conduct before the Ukrainian courts ends with justifiable sentences. That is, 99.8 percent of the cases receive an indictment. Gentlemen, we live in a zone, in a police state. How can we change the situation? My suggestion is that cosmetics or even, as the President suggests, individual progressive changes and the introduction of legal novels will not be sufficient to radically change this shameful and dangerous painting. We need to shake the system thoroughly. To change the Soviet model to a new, in fact democratic, one in which the maximum number of procedural fuses have been put in place. This requires, as a minimum, that I place a particular emphasis on, completely distinguishing the prosecutor from the investigation. With the least involvement of the prosecutor in the pre-trial investigation, I am convinced that democracy is under threat, the democraticity of the process is shrinking. Instead, the President proposes that the prosecutors be given back, and I quote, "procedural control over the trial investigation." It's written in his project. In my project, these two functions are clearly limited. The role of the prosecutor is predicated on the same one as the Basic Law. Having obtained evidence and evidence of the investigation, he must resolve one question: whether to sign or not to sign the indictment, i.e., in the language of the Constitution, to uphold the charges before the court or not. If there is a procurator's mandate to process the investigation, as proposed by the President, there is no rhetorical issue. If the prosecutor is actually in charge of the investigation, he is responsible. How can he decide to refuse to sign the indictment? In doing so, the prosecutor himself would have to admit that he was working poorly when he collected evidence when he was in charge of the investigation. It's nonsense. Both projects introduce a new investigating judge. However, under the circumstances of the prosecution’s procedural control, this institution becomes inappropriate. In my project, the investigating judge is a key procedural person. From the very beginning of criminal conduct from the first trial, the investigating judge is responsible for in no way violating the rights of the detainee, suspect or accused. It depends on what precautions will be taken as evidence is collected. He may oblige the investigator to collect evidence in behalf of the suspect. It's not in the Presidential project. In particular, the investigating judge is acting as a guarantor of innocence, even of the accused person’s conviction against the accused. This is recorded in our Constitution. This principle should not only apply during the trial, as the President actually suggests. In my project, this principle has been present since the first moment of criminalization: it is not to blame until the guilt is proven by the court. A police officer, an investigator, or a prosecutor may not refer to a person in a criminal case as a criminal whose guilt is likely to be proved in a court of law. This contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, which contradicts democracy. This is the situation today. And once again, I'm like 99, 8 indictments. We need to get rid of the management not only in the courts, but also in the police, in the investigator's office, in the prosecutor's office. Today, tens of thousands of innocent people in Ukraine are being punished in prisons, after months or years. They are innocent because the opposite is not proved in court. Most of these cases do not even come to court. And the Constitution guarantees everyone the right to quick justice. Why is that? Because our courts have the opportunity to print formalistic approvals to extend the duration of a person's detention in custody, in fact, indefinitely. I agree with the President's proposal to limit this term to. In some cases, up to 12 months. Or could one of the audience say that five, even if one example of the court’s decision, would not agree with the prosecutor’s appointment to continue the term of keeping a person in custody. I'm sure neither one of you is going to say that. Thus, the President proposes that this possibility be severely restricted. That's good. However, he also suggests that, on some matters, an innocent person may be imprisoned in the CIA for up to one year. What right can the State hold an innocent person imprisoned for one year? Oh, my God! Why would you do that? I propose to limit this precaution to two months, regardless of the composition of the crime. This approach is consistent with the modern understanding of axioms. It's called the Habeas Corps, which is to give or take, take a person. There's no such thing in the Presidential project. A special place in my project is evidence. How can you understand them? What evidence can be given by the court in its sentence? How firm is the requirement that all procedural actions take place in strict compliance with the procedural requirements of the Code? My project clearly means that any information that could testify to a person's guilt, but which was received not only in the face of procedural requirements, but without the enforcement of the code, cannot be considered as evidence. Moreover, my project establishes criminal responsibility for actions that go beyond the requirements of the code. I can go on with these arguments. But I'll limit myself to the last one. I am convinced that, in this part of the hall and in this part of the hall, there is a suspicion, to put it mildly, that all these political debates that we are witnessing are being organized on Bank Street. There's a suspicion of that, I'm sure, even though you don't have to talk about it out loud. The same people that you organized.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u45	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u46	The same people who organized these killings actually prepared this project for the President to be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Think about it. Whether any of you are really so naive, to believe that the project that the President has put in place by these very people can actually be completely democratic. And now I would like to remind you of the absolute order of any democracy. Those in power today will be in opposition tomorrow. Maybe not in a year, maybe not in five, but you will. And you're going to hand over the same document into the hands of those you're pursuing today. And they'll keep it in their hands and put you in the compound. I wouldn't want that. It's time to end this. I'd still like to support my project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u47	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to sign up for Roman Mikhailovich. Yes, please, he has the right to raise the question of Philippe, non-factional. 10: 58: 09
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u48	Thank you. Please pass the word to the Saints of Olives.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u49	Celebrity Olinick, please, microphone. 10: 58: 15
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u50	Roman Mikhailovich, I fully agree with most of what you said in your report, and about 99 percent of the indictments, and about what you may not have said, it's more than 300,000 people who are in places of deprivation of liberty, of which perhaps half, perhaps more, is inexplicably there. And the level of violence in the investigating bodies. I only have one question for you. You were one of the closest people to former President Yushchenk. Why didn't he bring this KPC project that you're reporting now, and why didn't we change this five years ago in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u51	I can honestly admit that I have failed to convince the President that we need to reform our criminal justice system. I couldn't do it. I have also failed to convince the President at various meetings, including two separate councils of the National Security and Defence Council, which need to be radically changed, reformed the police system, the system of internal affairs, which now retains its purely police character. I convinced the President that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and all internal affairs bodies should be transferred to civilian intelligence. Which, by the way, would match the name. Why I failed to do so is difficult for me to talk about. Yet, I persisted in this position. And so for the last five years, I have made every effort to allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine today to consider this project that I am presenting to you. By the way, he was.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u52	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u53	It was still on my personal website zvarich.com back in May last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u54	Andrew Shevchenko, "BUT" faction. 11:00:33
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u55	Mr. Sergio, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u56	Sergei Mishchenko, microphone. 11: 00:38
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear Roman Mikhailovich, I have two questions for you. First question. You know, in the existing Code of Criminal Procedure, 44 articles, they're advocates for the case. There are several persons who can defend the accused, the defendant. This is both a lawyer and other legal professionals and close relatives. In article 45 of the law, it is now proposed that these persons be deprived of the protection of the accused and the defendants. Only lawyers are left. Do you think this is the right approach to addressing the issue of protection of rights? And the second question. In your law, is the Presidential principle of criminal justice introduced? What researchers cannot investigate, the investigator cannot be a researcher and an overseer, a prosecutor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u58	He wants to finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u59	Allow me to complete the question. 11: 01: 51
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u60	The prosecutor can't investigate the case, he's in charge. A judge can't be an overseer, an investigator, just a judge. So is the basic principle of criminal justice introduced? In the United States, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u62	On the first question. I want to say right away, I understand that this may not be a very popular thesis, but I agree with what's in the Presidential project. And mine, by the way. That the main advocates in the court can be solely lawyers. I'd like to explain why. There is no more important category of work, since it is the fate of a person who would require the most highly qualified training of a defender than criminal conduct. If we are willing to give this question to an unqualified person, I fear that then his right to a truly qualified protection will be violated with regard to such a person. So I don't see any problems here. If, of course, a full, full, full, full, I would say, a lawyer's register. I heard what Andrew Volodymyrovich said, and I welcome this initiative, and I think it's necessary with regard to the Law on Lawyers. As far as I'm concerned. There's no project in either presidential or mine as a learning phase. It goes in as a separate one, not as a separate one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u63	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u64	This is one whole process of pre-trial investigation, and I think it's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question. 11: 03: 35
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Roman! I heard you were talking about the advantages of your code. I'll tell you what impresses me is what you jury actually do right, just like you do in all states. Tell me, please, and your assessment of the fact that in the actual criminal trial, more loyal in the draft Criminal Procedure Code that is currently under discussion, is the possibility of detention without permission from the Supreme Council of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, the President, even, such a possibility is to delay for 72 hours, and by one year at all, to keep everyone suspected? And as you appreciate, as the former minister of justice, the fact that the absence of a criminal offence order would make it impossible for you to charge that order with a criminal offence. And we know.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u67	Complete the formulation of your question. 11: 04: 47
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u68	That's why I want you to evaluate from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution, which envisaged reforming and creating a system of pre-trial investigation, what we are now proposing in this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u70	First of all, I didn't want to put a particular emphasis on this, because frankly, I want to say that I think it's just a mistake in the presidential project that this formulation has been stolen there. I'd like to believe that, I'd like Andrew Volodymyrovich to confirm that. Because, indeed, this is a very unfortunate mistake with regard to the national MPs of Ukraine, because this formulation does not match the other formulations contained in this project. Anyway, it seems to me that this error will necessarily be, if I can qualify it, correct it in preparing the project for the second reading. As far as the jury is concerned. I am deeply convinced that there is a faithful approach, which is applied in Anglo - Saxon law, that everyone has the right to be judged equal to himself. This is a democratic principle, and this is a safeguard of the exercise of power. The president proposes that the jury be made up of two categories, three citizens, two more judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u71	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u72	The judges who will take part in the jury's trial will be more equal than those citizens. I think it's wrong, so I suggested a different approach: 12 jurors, the jury's decision is taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u73	Thank you. All right, time's up, Roman Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, a word for the report has been given by the Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement Activities, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz. 11: 07: 19
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In fact, Ukraine's independence has become an acute necessity in the development of the new Criminal Procedure Code, because the existing CPC, as has already been said, was adopted in 1960, is no longer in line with the new social realities and international standards of ensuring the rights and freedoms of participants in criminal matters. In 1995, Ukraine made a number of commitments to the Council of Europe, one of which is the adoption of the CPC. Since then, 8 attempts have been made in Ukraine to prepare a new KPC project, one of which has even reached the second reading procedure. The draft Criminal Procedure Code submitted by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council consists of 11 chapters, 46 chapters and an appendix that amends almost 70 other legislative acts. [[Registration number 9700]] Since the first day of the coming of the project to the committee, which was January 13th, the committee has been working very hard on its work, involving scientists, scientists, representatives of the public, law enforcement practitioners, and law enforcement agencies, including outsiders. There is a special e-mail address that continues to be offered to the CPC project. We have already received almost a thousand proposals for specific articles of the draft code that have been processed by all members of the committee and are likely to be taken into account when preparing this bill for second reading. It should be noted that the project contains many novelties. Since the reporter has informed me of the nature of these novels, I will only stop at some of them, in our view, the most important. First of all, it's an attempt to create a level playing field for criminal conduct, to give a level playing field, including the gathering of evidence. But I emphasize, it's just an attempt. A new order is being established whereby the court can base its findings solely on the testimony that it has received directly from the parties to criminal proceedings in a court of law or that was given to the investigating court in a court of law during a pretrial investigation. It is proposed that the separate stages of research and pretrial investigation be merged into one: a judicial investigation that begins at the time of the arrival of information on the crime committed to the law enforcement authorities, which is necessarily included in a single register of pretrial investigations. The trial period will be two months. This term may be extended to 6 months for crimes of small and medium severity or up to 12 months for serious and particularly serious crimes. The period of custody during the pretrial investigation will be 60 days and may be extended to 6 months for crimes of small and medium severity and up to 12 months for serious and particularly serious crimes. Once the 12-month term is completed, the person is subject to immediate release from custody. The institute of pretrial investigation is being completely shut down, and the institution of the investigating judge is being established. It is kept under guard as an exceptional precaution, and the possibility of other precautions, such as home arrest, is greatly expanded. Electronic controls are being introduced, so called electronic bracelets. There is an agreement between the prosecutor and the accused on the admission of guilt and the agreement between the victim and the accused. When discussing a bill at a committee meeting, the views of the committee on all the above - mentioned novels are not clear. There are many warnings, many questions, especially regarding the relevance of the novels that are being introduced, to the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine. Yes, the members of the committee are concerned about the attempt to implement the constitutional rule in the CPC project concerning the powers of the Prosecutor's Office to oversee the enforcement of laws by the authorities carrying out the operational investigation and pretrial investigation, by introducing the prosecutor's procedural direction of the criminal procedure. Now the investigator is, in fact, deprived of the right to collect.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u75	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u76	to bear witness to the person’s guilt or innocence. He is now solely on the prosecution’s side, and criminal responsibility is being established for failing to comply with the prosecutor’s written instructions, who is conducting the process. Thus, on the one hand, Ukraine seems to be committing itself to the Council of Europe in part of depriving the prosecution of the right to participate in a pretrial investigation and, on the other hand, the prosecutor is the main pillar of this investigation, since his role is being strengthened and the procedural independence and independence of the investigator has been destroyed. The second point you can't ignore is the term of the Transitional Regulations of the Constitution, which was adopted in 1996. The transitional provisions of the Constitution may have been in operation for a maximum of five years. In these Transitional positions, it was noted that the procurator’s office retains the function of pre-trial investigation until the system of pretrial investigation is established and the laws governing their functioning are put into effect. Dear colleagues, after the adoption of the Constitution, it has been 16 years, three times five years, and the system of pretrial investigation has never been established. The D.A.'s office continues to function as an investigator today. In the new KPC project, we are again trying to attack the same rakes by denying the prosecutor the right to participate in a trial, and we note that this rule takes effect five years after the adoption of the KPC. But if the Constitution refers to the formation of a system of pretrial investigation in Ukraine, why does the KPC project provide that all crimes investigated by the prosecutor’s office will be investigated within five years of the adoption of the KPC. Listen! Transmitted to the Ukrainian Security Service. This is more than 70 articles of the Criminal Code. The question is, how does this rule harmonize with Ukraine’s commitment to the Council of Europe that the Ukrainian Security Service ceases to be police authorities and will be particularly concerned with the issue of national security, as is done in all countries of Europe. Why can't we foresee in the CPC project the creation of an investigation committee or the National Bureau of Investigation based on the current active departments, the investigation departments, the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs? As far as funding is concerned, I think this question can be solved. In our view, Ukraine must finally implement the Transitional Provisions of the Constitution, and one of the key issues of the updated criminal justice system should be the creation of a system of pretrial investigation. Right now, dear colleagues, there is a unique chance for all branches of government to work together to create such a system. As far as misconduct is concerned, all the lawyers are saying that the material and legal basis should precede the process itself. And we put the wagon in front of the horse again. You can't do that. Without any definition of criminal misconduct, we define such a term in the codex. What about the Constitution of Ukraine, which uses the concept of the Constitution? With regard to the stage of judicial review and the prosecution of court decisions, there is no substantial change in the CPC project. The adoption of a new CPC does not solve the issue of the Supreme Court as the highest judicial authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction. And yet another equally important question is, When is a person considered to be involved in criminal responsibility, is it from the moment he is informed of the charge or from the time he is brought to trial? And that's very important, and it can apply to everyone, including the people's deputies. The absence of a formal beginning of a criminal case makes it impossible to charge her with a violation. I would also like to tell you that according to the new KPC project, all reports of crime are automatically entered into a single register. This means that if this rule is preserved, every national MP will be the subject of a trial, regardless of the constitutional guarantees of criminal responsibility, including national deputies. The creation of a single register of investigative investigations relies on the prosecution and the Cabinet of Ministers. We think it's wrong, it should be defined by the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. Dear colleagues, very limited time. So all I have to say is that the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority thinks that the draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, which has been submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council, needs substantive work and takes into account the comments and suggestions made. [[9700]] The committee at yesterday’s meeting considered both bills very thoroughly. Sadly, though, the positions of the committee were split in half. In this regard, the committee was unable to approve a decision that we could make for your consideration. Therefore, all decisions in this room should be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Supreme Council if this bill is passed by the President on the first reading, so that the Supreme Council may have the committee elaborate on the bill of the Criminal Procedure Code, taking into account the provisions that we are talking about here today. There is a need to ensure that constitutional standards are enforced when preparing the draft Criminal Procedure Code for second reading. And the last. We have a very clear agreement with the experts of the Council of Europe that they are ready not to delay the adoption of the code in the second reading, to come to a committee meeting and, together with the members of the committee at every position, to find agreed decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u77	Sign up for questions, dear colleagues. Please, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. 11: 19: 28
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u78	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The Honourable Victor Dmitrovich, and one representative of his version, and the other said that we have a very high percentage of reprisals in court decisions. And these are the questions, the proposals, the complaints that come to the committee that I'm leading from human rights, the proportion applies to almost a third of them, just with complaints that there are only indictments. This is the second law, let's say, after the Constitution. Apparently, there were some predictable things that the committee did, you predicted adoption of these bills, which is irrelevant to the authorship, as much as it can increase, the portion of the sentences that justify a person. Yuri Anatolyevich, don't disturb me. Victor Dmitrovich, who justifies a person, not only punishes him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u79	Yuri Anatolyevich, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u80	Thank you so much for asking, it's very right. Dear colleagues! You know, let's talk objectively, which we wouldn't have adopted as a golden criminal procedure code, which would not guarantee the highest possible rights and freedoms of citizens, but there is no just justice in Ukraine. You know, we have an independent court, and there's a reason to answer your question. Only an independent court can ensure that people’s rights and freedoms are respected and protected. By the way, I would like to remind all of us, dear colleagues, that the Constitution of Ukraine, part of the first article 55, places the duty of the courts to protect the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. Do you see where our courts are? Do they protect the rights and freedoms of citizens? The court itself is a major violator of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. And in order for there to be no one like this, we, together with the adoption of the CPC, have to do everything we can to reform the judicial branch of power and bring it to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u81	Yes, Volodymyr Yavorowski, Faction of the Fatherland. 11: 21: 49
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u82	I am willing to give the floor to the prime minister of the opposition government, Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u83	Sergey Sobolev, please. 11: 21: 59
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u84	Dear Victor Dmitrovich, I have only one question to do with this so - called Criminal Procedure Code. Please tell me, how far does the Criminal Code in this project, I mean the President's draft, correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine? There have been several references to the authority of the prosecutor’s office, which does not actually correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. And one more question. Is it now possible for the KPC to open a criminal case, conduct all actions except one -- arrest, wait for a court decision, and then appeal to the Supreme Council regarding his arrest? Do I get it right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. You're absolutely correct in interpreting the position of the KPC project that the President of Ukraine introduced. At a committee meeting yesterday, we had a thorough discussion with the president's advisor. He convinced us that on all the issues that are controversial or that raise doubts about their compliance with the Constitution, we will sit down and find compromises that would suit the interests of, above all, the Ukrainian people. I can only say one thing, whether they answer to the Constitution or not, is the right of the Constitutional Court. We can only say that we have substantial, fundamental suspicions that a whole series of provisions of the draft Criminal Procedure Code, which is proposed, do not correspond to a whole range of provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. And I would like to ask that in your decision when we adopt the decision to refer this project to the second reading, you will be sure to mark and assign the committee to the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u86	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u87	Parliament’s second reading was bound to agree with the Constitution of Ukraine, including articles 121 and 80 and other provisions of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u88	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, now. No, we still have to do the show. Please sign up for factions, factions. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Now I'm asking you to sign up for the National MPs. Names of the national MPs, please. So, dear colleagues, let's start with the factions. From the faction of the Party of Regions, who will act? Vladimir Oilynik, please. Prepare Volodymyr Kaplanka. 11: 25: 15
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions supports and urges other deputies to support the KPC project submitted by the President of Ukraine because it meets all European standards. Several serious European expertise has been carried out, and European experts themselves have determined that it meets European standards by 99 percent. European experts themselves agree to work with us on improving it between the first and the second readings, so this bill is worth supporting. We have to say that the President has shown the right political will. This bill is on time, you know. For about 20 years, Ukrainian society had been waiting for it to be adopted, 8 attempts, twice this bill, I mean KPC, even submitted to the Supreme Council. This is essentially about the small Constitution of Ukraine. If rights are prescribed in the Constitution, they will never be realized if there are no mechanisms for the implementation and protection of these constitutional rights. But we still need to support the President in creating the Constitutional Assembly and making changes to the serious part of the Constitution that forms an independent branch of the court. In this regard, we must be consistent. Of course, it must be said frankly that the previous authorities have spoken much on this subject, but they have done nothing. And in this respect, if the Democrats are talking about not strengthening the institutions of democracy, they should at least join this law. Because it's not about the law that's for elections, it's about the law that's for the state. Perhaps this will test our ability to work together together to make decisions of a governmental nature. What is positive about this? Very much. These are the answers to the questions that are being answered today. If only we can see that there are shorter terms of being under guard up to a year, today it's 5 to 6 years. If we say that today there is a foreseeable competitive process, there is no competition today. When we are even talking about the basic right to treatment, under house arrest, please, at least a doctor from Europe, a masseuse from China. But it is a guaranteed citizen’s right, if not guilty, to exercise full constitutional rights! So I call on all the deputies to support this bill, because it meets the requirements of the Ukrainian bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u90	Finish up, please. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Vladimir Moses will be next. 11: 28: 35
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Dear National Deputies! I have the honour to speak on behalf of the parliamentary group "For the Future Reforms" on drafts in the Presidential edition and in the drafting of our colleagues in the city, Mr. Zvaric. What I'd like to say. First. You know, you can discuss a meaningful part of a bill. However, I don't see why the opposition on the committee of profile and the Supreme Council between these two texts is such. The first bill, the Presidential one, has a low novelty that really aims to harmonize with European legislation. But he has some serious flaws that we are talking about today. And in particular, we're talking about the possibility of detaining executives, national deputies, and even the President of Ukraine for 72 hours with a further extension of the year. Is that a normal practice? Is that European practice? Of course, the group cannot support such texts in general as in the law. Next question. I've been on the air today, and ordinary people are addressing the drafting of the Criminal Procedure Code. Such questions. And will voluntary confessions be removed as a tool in the new edition of the Criminal Procedure Code? Will the statistics of disclosure be changed, which today as a damocle sword hangs over every investigator who conducts a case or another? Is it not necessary to provide financial security for the compulsory, unjustified detention of any Ukrainian citizen and the retention of him in a buttockery or in a KPC? This Criminal Procedure Code, neither the first nor the second edition, nor the Zvaric nor the President, do such a thing. But I wish we could still get back from fighting the left and right shores and open our faces to each other. The committee should not be divided into five by five by each law. We need to unite them and make a normal civilized law. For 17 years we did not have a normal criminal procedural code. Why don't we wait another six months for him to get back to normal? Because this is the second Constitution, the honourable colleagues, in this field. And it is not possible to make such decisions in a hurry! As for the position of the MP's Reform Group for the Future. We're giving you the opportunity to adopt the bill on the basis of who's going to be the first. If it's presidential, we'll support it in the form of a free vote. But from this rostrum, I have the authority to state that if a 72-hour delay format is saved until the second edition, the prosecutor's tool is preserved, we will not vote for it, and we will raise the moment that will slow down the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u92	Vladimir Moisik faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Yes, there you are. Well, please. Arsenius Yatsenuk, please. 11: 31: 44
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the reform of criminal justice in Ukraine has already been completed. It passed at a time when the District Court sentenced the former Prime Minister to a violation of all moral and procedural law. I think that the reform of criminal justice needs to start not only with criminal law. First of all, we have to start with the answer to the question, "What about the judge who? " The President of Ukraine should be deprived of the right to appoint judges. That's the first one. The other one. In Ukraine, there must be a full and full-fledged competence of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which must deal with any case in any case with one purpose -- to establish the rule of law and order in Ukraine. Third. The President should be deprived of the right to appoint the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on his own. And I'm going to take a separate look at why. Four. The question arises why a direct rule of the current Constitution is not being implemented, namely, that prosecutors should be deprived of their authority for five years, which has been 16 years, both in general supervision and influence in the investigation. As for the specific provisions of the Code. I would like to point out that this code provides for the creation under President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine of a real CNSC, namely, for the competence of the Ukrainian Security Service, attention is given to 76 additional crimes and 22 other alternative crimes. In other words, the Bolsheviks who created HCCPs and NCCDs didn't even know it. That the President can get control of the whole country through the new usurper service in the form of the Ukrainian Security Service. The other one. As far as the prosecutor's office is concerned. Think about it: The prosecutor has the right to give direct instructions to the investigator under the new code, and if the investigator fails to follow the direct instructions of the prosecutor, the investigator is criminally responsible. Where's the independent investigators' institute that you did? You're actually destroying the judicial and criminal system in the country. Third. As far as the right to protection is concerned. The question arises why the right to defend Ukrainians is restricted solely by lawyers. The same was true in the case of Timoshenko when defenders were not allowed. This is a direct constitutional norm, article 64. We demand direct protection for all Ukrainian citizens, given that this may not only be a lawyer but also an expert in the field of law. Fifth. As far as the jury's concerned. It's an interesting jury institution. You're the only one who got mixed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u94	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u95	they merged the Soviet National Jury Institute with a classic jury institute and somehow wrote only three jurors. I can see why, well, you three are easier to scare than eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u96	Thank you. Alexander Steshenko. Sergey Sobolev of the Faction "BUT" - "The Fatherland." Will Vladimir Lechchenko be next from the Communist faction? Please. 11: 35: 19
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u97	Dear citizens of Ukraine, you must understand that you have been prepared in the form of a draft Criminal Procedure Code, and we will begin with the Constitution. For 16 years we have brought everything into line with the Transitional Regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine. This KPC continues to have the general supervision of the prosecutor's office, the authority of the investigation remains, and, more importantly, the authority of the prosecutor's office regarding the investigators is being strengthened. The other one. There is a direct violation of the Constitution when, with regard to opposition national MPs, a criminal case can be brought without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to hold them for 72 hours, to take all procedural action, except for one -- that is, after the court's decision, the Supreme Council's consent is required. You can imagine how this rule is going to be used to create another group of "cuffs" or so-called "independent." Third. Let's see, in which hands are given directly by the Criminal Procedure Code, it's the same thing as handing high technology into the hands of slaves. Whom do I mean by slaves? Those who are now directly dependent on the High Council of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the President's Administration. I mean 8,000 judges who at any time can be removed from office and who will in no way be independent under this procedural code. Third. Let's see what happens to the prosecutor's office, which is virtually vertically appointed by the Attorney-General, who in turn is recommended by the President of Ukraine. That is why the direct inadequacy of the Constitution of Ukraine in this project is remarkable. Second item. We're told that it exists, this Criminal Procedure Code, since the '60s. That's not true. When it was necessary for political prisoners to change the two articles immediately, namely, the article on familiarizing themselves with matters when 18 volumes of the case were given to the lawyer in the south, this could be changed immediately; when the rights of the national jury were to be restricted, this could be done. And here, it turns out, we haven't changed anything. The third fundamental moment. In fact, this Criminal Procedure Code does not correspond in any way to the key positions that apply to the statute of limitations. If a new crime continues to take place, a hundred years may be extended. That's why our faction won't vote in favour of this project. We're ready to support Mr. Zvaric's project. And I think that this project is actually a project, not a criminal one, but a commercial one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u98	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next. 11: 38: 28
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u99	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The Communist faction believes that the new edition of the Criminal Procedure Code is, in principle, necessary. But with regard to Bill No. 9,700, there are many positive and even more significant shortcomings. The draft Code of Criminal Procedure is conceptually inconsistent with the current Criminal Code and the Constitution of Ukraine -- this is what experts conclude. The Criminal Code and the Constitution, for example, only have the notion of "crime," and the draft crime, along with criminal offences, is one of the kinds of criminal offences. In addition to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code provides for the adoption of the Criminal Offences Act, which will lead to confusion and violations of citizens’ rights in the application of criminal law. The scheme, when the Criminal Procedure Code is first adopted and then the criminal legislation is amended, is not acceptable. The main figure in the trial is the state’s prosecutor. Prosecutors should become procedural supervisors, not just to oversee the process, but to be responsible for an effective investigation, to give orders to the investigator, to the investigative authority, and not to conduct personal investigations and proceedings in cases that are not circumstantial. In fact, these are means of criminal prosecution, and the Constitution of Ukraine does not place such rights on the procurator’s office. And the Final Positions of the Criminal Procedural Code project are amended by the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides for criminal responsibility for failure to comply with the prosecutor's instructions. Indeed, he loses his independence and must carry out the commission and direction of both the public prosecutor and the head of the judicial investigation body. I mean, authorization. In addition, the prosecutor’s authority to lead the investigation will compete with the authority of the head of the investigation department. The protection of a suspect, accused, convicted, acquitted is the exclusive competence of lawyers. The constitutional rights of citizens are limited. The costs associated with the involvement of witnesses, experts, translators, and experts are borne by criminal conduct that has claimed to be a challenge to the individuals in question. Is it not surprising that these individuals should be challenged quite often, for example, at the expense of the victim? What if he doesn't have any money? In this regard, after considering both the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office on the 32 pages and the observation of the substance of many interested bodies on 400 pages, the faction of the Company of Ukraine proposes: Bill No. 9700 to send for work and 9700-1 to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u100	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Shemchuk will be next. 11: 41: 47
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u101	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, February 9, 2012, and February 9, 1932, five present - day Ukrainian districts — Winnicka, Kharkivska, Dnipropetrovska, Odessa, and Kyiv — were formed as part of the WCEC’s standoff session. Workers' areas, workers' areas. I think we could welcome them, 80 years today, to these five areas. But I also mentioned that today, February 9, 2012, because on February 11, 2010, I would be given a legislative initiative to amend the current Criminal Procedure Code, where it was absolutely hard to determine that the confession of the accused of his guilt, or otherwise, "voluntary confession" could not be the basis for the accusation that he could only be involved in the case and only when the whole complex was assembled, the whole set of evidence of the charge, the guilt of the accused. Unfortunately, at the time of the second reading, this rule was cooled down, and for two years we could have had a situation where there was no motivation for law enforcement to resort to torture, to resort to violence in order to exterminate so-called "voluntary confession." I wish we could get the paperwork in time. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the commitment to adopt a quality new Criminal Procedure Code was made by Ukraine back in 1995. This was Ukraine’s direct commitment. I am so sorry that there are calls today to accept nothing, to send somewhere else, and so forth. Obviously, this is part of the scenario so that we do nothing, obviously, is part of the scenario to push Ukraine like a snow coma, screw up our new commitments and new demands on us. I don't care about the authorship. I mean it. I know there's a lot of experts who call it the Portual Codex. Let it be Portno, for God's sake. In general, I believe, and rightly the Head of the Supreme Council said, let the laws in general have a name for us, let the people know whose law it is, and let them know what man who has made it. It's about common ground. It is that both a representative of his own choice, and another representative says quite harshly and rightly that this is the second law, the second legislative act with a definition after the Constitution of Ukraine. Anyone who doesn't want to take any options obviously wants to get out of Baby Yaga's position. The faction of the People's Party is not Baba Yaga, we will support the option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. Let us move on to the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies. I have a request. Let's not take a break, we can't interrupt the question. Is there no objection? We have 30 minutes for the national MPs. The word is made by the national deputy Shemchuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be Wonderful. 11: 45: 10
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u103	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs! What needs to be adopted is probably no one has any questions. Indeed, this codex, the question of its adoption, has long been out of date. Which of these two codes is, of course, not even our profile committee. But I would like to point out immediately that none of the members of our committee voted against the adoption of the new Code of Criminal Procedure. Five men voted in favour, and five men abstained. I believe that the adoption of the new Criminal Procedure Code should lead to an improvement in the situation that is currently in the state, allowing for the protection of citizens' rights, and, indeed, the foundations laid down in the Code are so revolutionary that to date they are causing so many concerns and very many questions. I don't want to go into one code or another, and I think that those novels that are positive in one code can be perfectly incorporated into another code. I believe that today there are many reasons to claim that the code that will be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be far better than the code that exists today. Of course, there are many comments to this Criminal Procedure Code that is being proposed. There are many issues that relate to disagreements with the Constitution, which can really be corrected when preparing for second reading. There are many questions that today should be set forth in this codex. For example, questions relating to the powers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. As of today, the Criminal Procedure Code does not provide, according to Mr. Moysik's proper statement, a so-called valve that could be eaten by a couple when making certain or other procedural decisions. The Supreme Court of Ukraine should have the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, and these rights should be stipulated as the prao of the last cassation institution in our state. With regard to the procurator’s powers, the bill, both in one and the other, provides that the prosecutor, on one side of the criminal proceedings in the course of the trial, will provide evidence of the defendant’s guilt. In fact, today the system of legal organs and the authorization of a lawyer are being reformed in making decisions on certain criminal matters. We can argue a lot about how many jurors should be involved in the trial. But at the same time, what the jury must also have in place is an active Constitution, so it is also a matter that needs to be settled in this code. I would ask all fellow members of the National Deputies to support one of the drafts of this code, to allow the first reading to open the process so that the differences that today and the criticism that has sounded from this rostrum to the address of this codex can be made and, in principle, to start the process of adopting the new code and giving it the right to life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u104	People's Deputy Wonders. He gives John Vernidovo the right to speak. Please, Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of Regions. The next one will be Easy. Is it still non-fractional or not? 11: 48: 34
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u105	Thank you for your attention. Dear colleagues who know the history of the creation of the CPC, the creation of the working group since 1992, clearly states that acceptance of the new CPC is necessary. I am personally, like most Ukrainian processualists, not thrilled by the revolutionary nature of the KPC project. Absolutely sure that the new criminal procedure legislation should not be built on the principle of denying and destroying everything else. Many of the provisions of the current criminal procedural legislation, which have been tested in practice, have proved their effectiveness, meet European standards, as evidenced by, inter alia, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. In this regard, I believe that they should find their place in the new legislation as a positive legacy that corresponds to the traditions of our nation’s criminal process. The option presented today is very different from the first option to the best side, to which we and European experts have many claims. And I really suggest in the first reading that we adopt this presidential bill. However, many specific suggestions will be made until the second reading. Today, I would like to share my doubts about some of the fundamental approaches to creating a new KPC model. First of all, it raises doubts about the regulation in the Criminal Procedure Code of the procedure for bringing persons to justice for committing criminal offences. The legislative strengthening of the procedure for criminal delinquency in the Criminal Code, namely, the procedural code, will lead to confusion, collusions and competition in the law. After all, we have not yet been offered a code or other law that we will apply to a particular area of law. One of the speakers said it would be small crimes. If these are small crimes, and so most citizens already realize that this is going to be a thorough criminalization of minor crimes. It is seen that the issue of responsibility for minor misdemeanours is better dealt with in a separate comprehensive legislative act that includes not only material standards but also the procedure of accountability. The stage of criminal delinquency is, in fact, a lot of talk that it's been canceled. You can't clearly say it's good. At this stage, there had been the most arbitrary, especially in internal affairs and will continue to be. It causes a substantial narrowing of the investigator’s competence, depriving him of a range of powers that, under the conditions of law, ensure the effectiveness of the court’s investigation. Moreover, deprivation of professional independence, indeed, and the threat of criminal responsibility, are not in line with practice and standards. And I'd especially like to say that. I believe that the new CPC should refrain from mixing R & D and pre-trial investigation as a uniquely procedural activity. Operationally.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u106	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u107	Operational search measures should be regulated by operational and search legislation, and investigations should be criminal and procedural, both of which should be carried out by appropriately prepared experts. I don't know what the security forces are silent about, and this intervention is going to be in their activities, so why aren't they yelling about it? I don't think that this hybrid is going to give us the expectations that we are. If we accept and after the second reading we don't change all of these things, I think we're going to have to make serious changes by the end of the year, as this model is presented to us today, it's not going to work and we're going to have to apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u108	Thank you. Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Oleg Lazko, non-factional. Paul Unguryan will be next. 11: 52: 33
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. And I don't know why the Attorney General is silent, because yesterday an unprecedented event took place in the country, a colleague of Roman Zabzaluk published a scandalous report about what our colleague Rybakov is doing for money for reselling MPs. Igor Rybakov, who became the first "cart" in this Parliament, betrayed democratic forces and is now the sixth in power, distributing stolen money, bribing MPs. Why is the Attorney General silent? What law does the Attorney General's Office not allow to immediately violate a criminal case by bribing Ukrainian national deputies? And we're not being investigated by the Attorney General's Office today, they're silent, but these hoodlums are telling us what they did, what they did, what they did, they gave money for treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u110	Please link this to the Criminal Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u111	Now we're talking about a criminal. It's a criminal offence that has to be investigated according to the Criminal Procedure Code. Ribakov needs to be removed from the MP's touch. Ribakov must be imprisoned. The investigation is to investigate who gives Ribakov millions of dollars for the bribe of deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u112	Please, by subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u113	And the path leads to the very hour, to the power. Because, in fact, Rybakov, it's a small fish. And the bribes of these and millions of dollars are distributed by the majority in Parliament through bribery, threats, and intimidation of MPs. That is why I appeal to the Attorney General to file a criminal case immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u114	Please, by theme! Because I'm gonna have to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u115	In accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code, to immediately violate a criminal case! Draw responsibility, find out who's handing out the money. Because it's the good people, the good citizens, it's the money you stole! That's where the carcases come from!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u116	Please, by subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u117	That's where the power comes from! And the Criminal Procedure Code doesn't work when it comes to drawing bribes from power! And when July needs to be put in jail, it's against any code they've taken and planted. And yesterday I went to her prison, I arrived today, I was not released, I was not allowed to pass flowers to a poor woman! Because those fascists are killing Timoshenko in prison and afraid to show her people! They tortured a heroic woman! And it doesn't matter what the code is! Politicians plant occupiers in prisons! And they walk with impunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u118	Thank you. Paul Ungurian. Well, please, you've already said everything. Paul, please, Shishkina, the Faction of the Fatherland. Philippeenko will be next. 11: 56:04
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! Very symbolically, for me today, a new draft of the Criminal Procedure Code is starting to be considered. Since it was only early in the morning that I knew that an attack had been carried out last night on my assistant at the public ambushes of Alexander Eugenovich Ushinsky, a representative of the Association of Starving Researchers in Ukraine. First, he was attacked by a car, and then he was shot twice. And I'm going to be very interested to see how the new Criminal Procedure Code works in this particular case. As militias and prosecutors will carry out its position from this truly revolutionary code in the event of an attack on my assistant. And now essentially the bill. There was much talk about the progressive novels of this codex. I don't deny their real progression, they can do a lot to improve the situation. But those 20 percent of the changes that have made to the National Commission's project on democracy and the rule of law, which was developed in 2008-2009 and which was based on representatives of the President's Administration and "completed" it, these 20 percent undo all the positive beginnings and progressive novels of this draft Criminal Procedure Code. First thing I want to say. In the text of the 2009 KPC project, the main philosophy of the project was man, his protection of rights, man, suspect and victim. There was an attempt to get away. It was no longer an effort, but it was a restriction on the authority of the investigator at the stage of the pretrial investigation; the man was in the center. So the philosophy of the codex was human centeristic, humanistic. What have they done now? They're talking about independence, the limitations of the investigator's independence, and they're talking about cutting off the investigator's mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, look at article 94 of this project! The following and the prosecutor have the right to evaluate evidence of their permissibility, authenticity, and credibility during the stage of the pretrial investigation. That is, the investigator has the authority of the court at the stage of the pretrial investigation. Is he not independent? Is that going to limit his authority? And that's the "radish" that exists now. This is the "sauce" that causes a significant violation of human rights at the stage of pretrial investigation. Here's what. In addition, the investigator has the right to file for an extension of the period, has the right to consider the initiation by the party to protect the conduct of the investigation. I mean, he can satisfy the lawyer's problems, and maybe he won't. Next. This Criminal Procedure Code does not solve many of the problems that exist today. And, in particular, I want to say that he is also not solving the problem of protecting those political prisoners who are today. In particular, it has just been known that Kharkiv has a court and I want to limit Julia Timoshenko to the terms of her criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u120	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u121	That is, they want to limit Julia Timoshenko in terms of her criminal case. This KPC project does not address this problem. In this way a person can also be restricted. There is also this problem. So the philosophy of the new KPC project is much worse than that in 2009. The authors of this text of the 2011 CPC deviated from the concept of criminal justice reform, which was further approved by President Yushchenk's decree in 2008.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u122	Thank you. I'd like to invite Vladimir Filipenko, non-factional. Please. 12: 00:00
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I hope that Ukraine will finally get a new Criminal Procedure Code, because living according to the old 1960 example is getting tired of everyone: both judges and prosecutors and lawyers and, frankly, society. We've been in the state for two decades and it hasn't changed: The Constitution had changed, the form of government had changed, but only the rules for the participants in the criminal process remained unchanged. In addition to the long overdue need to reform the criminal process, there are some international commitments that Ukraine made many years ago. I am also referring to the conclusion of the 1995 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which stresses the need for the adoption of new democratic criminal justice procedures. And every next resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly clearly reminded us: time goes, respectable, and KPC, which was, and remains, outdated, undemocratic and with an open reprisal. And now, finally, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there was a concept of a qualitatively new model of criminal justice, a model that should first be presented for consideration by our legislative body, and has undergone more than one test and audit in recognized world institutions. This is also about the Directorate-General for Human Rights, other European Council experts, and the Parliamentary Assembly itself, which, in the last resolution, singled out and welcomed the very fact that this project had already been submitted to Parliament. Moreover, experts who evaluated the project submitted by the head of State recommend that it should not be delayed in any way. You know, it's quite a surprise that the individual deputies who spoke out of this rostrum are not in line with the code proposed by the President of Ukraine, because it seems to provide for standards that allow 72 hours to be detained by the people's deputies, the President of Ukraine. It seems that such deputies may not have read the project proposed by the head of state at all. And I can honestly say that it is in full conformity with the Constitution, and more importantly, the word translates into words the constitutional norms governing the detention of a person. Believe me, it's not a voice, it's by the way the leading European experts are noticing. Virtually all of them celebrate the revolution of the new codex, calling it a breakthrough in Ukrainian legislation. As they observe, 99 of their comments and recommendations were included in the bill introduced by the head of state. This project meets European standards in criminal justice and is based on human rights and fundamental freedoms conventions. My colleagues, in our years of independence, we have tried to reform the CPC on more than one occasion. If I'm right, there were about 10 different projects. For years, numerous groups, commissions, both inside and outside parliament were working. But it can be noted that just now an effective political team has emerged and a really quality draft of the Criminal Procedure Code has been introduced. In summary, I would like to point out that today, when we vote in favour of the draft code presented by the Head of State, we actually choose between the Soviet system and the new thinking. Convinced that reform of criminal justice will enable us to do it first.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u124	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u125	And turn the old mentality into a legal culture that is inherent in civil society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u126	Thank you, too. John Verni Dubov spoke, conveys the right to speak. Please. 12: 03: 28
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! Here I specifically asked you yesterday to address this bill with one goal: not to be speechless and.. such a word is easier. Stupid guns in the hands of politicians. It's the bill. Some speakers say that he is not protecting the accused at all to politicize the bill. Other speakers said that the bill did not protect the investigator from the prosecutor's will at all. Let us divert ourselves from the calls of "white", "red", "yellow", from any policy under this bill. Let us treat this bill as an ordinary Ukrainian citizen and think at least in terms of self-preservation, both ourselves and our families, as well as any Ukrainian citizen. Well, one man with a paphos here said that the bill didn't decide what to do with an arbitrary militia, with investigators when the testimony was broken. “And until this issue is resolved in the bill, we will not vote in favour of it”, it was said. There is a solution to this question, it is simple and beautiful. No evidence, no testimony from the witness, the accused, the victim and so on shall be taken into account by the court until the court itself examines them until he hears it all. Isn't that the answer? This is a solution. And there is a direct answer to that question in this law. Next question. Some say that the investigator's powers are severely restricted by the prosecutor, while others speak and say that the investigator's powers are boundless, even before he, without trial, evaluates the evidence. Gentlemen, I say again: Read the bill, don't listen to anyone's words, read for yourselves. If the court evaluates and takes into account, when sentencing, only the evidence that it saw, evaluated itself, held in hand, not what the investigator wrote to it, is it good or bad? With regard to the indictment of the process, which was allegedly laid down in the Presidential Bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken a look at the powers of the investigator and the powers of the defence attorney in the criminal process under this bill. I assure you, all the powers that an investigator has under the bill are equal to the powers of a lawyer, except for one, I did not find in this bill the power of a lawyer to question a witness. And I believe that this power should be introduced into this bill. How is this done abroad, for example? Aphidovite is produced abroad, during which the notary is present.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u128	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u129	counsel enquiries the witness, asks him questions, this is reflected in a document called an affidavit and the notary confirms by its signature and seal that everything has been done by law, without pressure, and that this person has given testimony. I call. To read and support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u130	Thank you. George Carmazin refers the right to speak to Prokopchuk and then to Viacheslav Kirilenko - Karmazin. Is that what you agreed?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u131	Well, please. 12: 07: 22
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, I inform you that just now, according to a press release in the Kyiv Reissud, Kharkiv, a second, so-called, case of Yulia Timoshenko without the involvement of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymirovna himself, who is behind bars, lawyers and without any protection. It's about getting to know a lot of volumes, well, the shortest possible term -- a thousand pages per hour. This is what's happening in our country today, this is how the court's handicrafts work today, which is governed by not even the Criminal Procedure Code that is in force today, because there are no rules that are solely governed by orders from the Bank, which is governed by any order. By the way, in the new Code of Criminal Procedure, there's a rule that's called "the words can be brought to trial" -- no witness, nothing, 37 years and nothing else. I don't talk anymore about what was being pointed out that it is completely inconsistent with the Criminal Code of Ukraine, because as long as there are repressive articles that the whole world is paying attention to, the Council of Europe is called number 364 and 365, the adoption of this code is not seen as possible, because 16 articles are being decriminalized, where smuggling, bribery, the same bribes that are being given to the Supreme Council today, and so on. And there's no criminal responsibility for that, but there's only the payment of fines: from the stolen part to pay and pay off. Thus, the adoption of this codex is not possible. Again, this has been pointed out, and the analysis of norms has led to the conclusion that the law sent to the Supreme Council, without taking into account the comments of experts from the Council of Europe who warn Ukraine of the adoption of the law in such an order because the latter does not meet European standards and contains many contradictions. It also mentions the role of the prosecutor’s office, which is becoming limitless and completely uncontrollable, this is part 1 of article 36, read, and no one can control it. At the same time, all investigations that have been conducted can be dismissed, and a different witness will be taken into account in court. And that is exactly what the absolute inability to accept in the first reading of this codex is. All of these comments need to be taken into account, we need to get back to the first reading, and we need to take those suggestions as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u133	Finish up, please. Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense. Sergey Mishchenko will be next. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. 12: 10: 46
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I sincerely thank John Grigorovich Kirilenko and the national deputy Korja for the word he gave me. I would like to say a good word to the general section of this codex. Andriy Volodymyrovich, I am addressing you, Mr. Portnov, this is a wonderful part of this code. But then, and then again, it's scary. Why? You know, atom bomb inventors didn't know what that would lead to. And then they saw it, and they ended badly. It's also a nuclear bomb. It's just a nuclear bomb for society. Because we're not going to be able to get back to 37. That is why I will take a firm stand against acceptance in the first reading of this document. And to you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question for the Head of the Supreme Council. Where is the conclusion of the mandatory anti-corruption expertise provided for by the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Principles Act? [[Article 15]] He's not here, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. You have an organization of work. Where is the conclusion of the Committee of Legal Policy on the unconstitutional provisions of the project, which were discussed here, including from the head of the Committee of Sweden? He's gone. Where are we going? Why are changes to the Constitution not proposed? By the 29th, till the 80s? God be with them, with those deputies. But what do you do with people? You delay the deadline when people are suspected of KPC for up to 12 months. Is this the pre-election period that all politicians will go on witnessing all the time? That's why it's done. Dear National Deputies! Many have said that international conclusions are very serious and very agreeable. This is the conclusion of the Criminal Procedure Code project. First of all, the articles don't match. And second of all, I'm addressing my colleagues who came to the oranges in a democratic way. I quote 361 articles of this conclusion. "A lot of the details on which some observations have been made in the further proposals should be seen not only as problematic in themselves, but as evidence that the approach to the creation of a new draft code is generally not permeated by the requirements of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms developed in the practice of the European Court of Human Rights." And what they said about the Supreme Court. This is where Moses, Vladimir Moses, sits. It suits you, Mr. Moses, that he's turning into a potter of this Supreme Court. Obviously, it's good if they're being sent here like this right now. As a result, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, see what has been done in additions?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u135	Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u136	We have a committee on combating organized crime and corruption. He has so many powers, in paws, but it is now proposed that he remove, even, his authority where he may carry out the crimes he has committed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u137	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenko. Our distinguished Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin was just mentioned by the legal committee. The chairman of the committee is speaking. 12: 14: 39
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Is it necessary to implement the recommendations of the Council of Europe regarding the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code and Criminal Code in Ukraine? I'm sure you do. However, it is necessary to implement the PARJE resolution on the release of the opposition and Yuri Lucenka and Julius Volodymyrý Timoshenko. This is the sum total of all that we have to do. Because one recommendation cannot be made selectively and another recommendation ignored. I told the faction today that 80 percent of this law is revolutionary and very good positions, but 20 percent, maybe I'm not going to specify these percentages exactly, but that spoon of tart, that spoon of tart, it's going to break everything in this side of honey. What does that mean? Like what I said about lawyers. To protect a person today has the right: both a lawyer and another expert in the field of justice. This person chooses for himself whether he trusts, for example, a scientific fellow worker or a dean of a legal institution to protect him, not necessarily a lawyer. Will a relative protect him? If this had been left behind, no one would have talked about political motives in this regard. And now we have doubts. Look, after this law has been passed, the lawyer is not a lawyer, and the defender Vlasenko, the daughter of Julia Timoshenko, Kožemyakin, Sas, who are defenders in other areas of law, is what is now allowed. They will automatically be deprived of the protection of our leader. That's the main thing. And here's the question: will the principle of the return of the law apply to defenders? That's what they said. It's just the protectors. I'm saying that in 2000, the Constitutional Court concluded on 59 articles of the Constitution entitled "The Right to Defence" written: "The Constitution of Ukraine states that, in order to ensure the right to defence against the prosecution of Ukraine, a lawyer is acting in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, cannot be interpreted as the right of a suspect accused and a defendant to choose only a lawyer." He may choose those persons who are now in the Criminal Procedure Code. How, though, can a criminal case be brought before a court if there is no criminal case? In 2005, we passed a bill saying we could sue a criminal case. There's no stage now, so we can't sue anything. We can only find out about this criminal case when it is presented.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u139	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u140	So as an investigator investigating criminal cases, as a prosecutor overseeing criminal cases, I can say that even a position that violates criminal cases against investigators for not ordering the prosecutor, yes, yes, I would have been disturbed by several cases when I was an investigator. You know, the independence of the judicial investigation system and the nakat, the new nakat on the opposition will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u141	Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you'll have any objection to the fact that I'm going to argue that everyone's practically speaking. We've been discussing this for over two hours. But in view of the fact that Vladimir Romanovich Moses was named after him, although positive, he insists that he has one minute. Then the closing word will be in the interviewees and we will come to a decision. 12: 18: 55
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u142	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine! "Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Unfortunately, I didn’t sign up for a more thorough speech. I'm one of the few people who knows this code, and one and the other, I've worked systematically, but I want to stop your attention for two moments, despite the flaws my colleagues have pointed to. KPC refers all criminal cases in Ukraine to district and local courts. Dear colleagues, this is absolutely unacceptable. And I'll give you two examples, post-Radians-Russia, Europe-Germany. Crimes are committed there, as opposed to this project, whether above or above the crime, the more severe the punishment, the higher the criminal case rises. Just like when you and I are sick, we go to the district doctor, to the district doctor, and to Kiev, to the clinic, or abroad, to have a thorough diagnosis. This should also be done in criminal matters. But I wanted something else about the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, if the draft code does not contain this emergency valve that allows the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u143	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u144	Needing any case and putting a dot in this case is not justice, and these documents cannot be called the Criminal Procedure Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I invite you to the closing statement of Portnov Andrija Volodymyrovich. Then Roman Zvaric and Victor Dmitrovitch Shevchuk. Sweden, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u146	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, I want the last three of these. It is that, as far as the national MPs of Ukraine are concerned, other procedures will be applied to criminal liability, as if to deprive lawyers of the possibility of protecting their defendants in resonant criminal matters. And as to what, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, who seemed to be the Council of Europe, decided on a negative expert conclusion. I want to make it right. And I think we have to be professional here. First. In the Criminal Procedure Code of the Constitution, one to another, the word is rewritten with regard to the prosecution of a deputy. So there is no need to worry, no one is going to introduce any innovation. That's the first one. Second position. I've been quoting you since January 26, 2011, this is the last resolution of the PARJE on the Criminal Procedure Code. I quote: "The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is pleased to note that the President of Ukraine has submitted a new draft Code of Criminal Procedure for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and urges the Supreme Council to adopt in the fastest possible manner this -- I quote -- law that fully takes into account the recommendations of the European experts of the Council of Europe during their consideration of the draft law." So this information, you're sounding, does not fit the reality. And the third. As far as a criminal lawyer is concerned. Dear Sergey Grigorovich, you're a professional. Notice, first of all, it becomes effective in a year. And secondly, I quote you in an expert opinion on this law on 13.10.2009, on the Law on Lawyers: "As for the monopoly of lawyers for representation and defence in civil, administrative, criminal conduct, experts see this as a great benefit to ensure the quality of legal services in judicial conduct and to serve to improve the quality of the administration of justice." Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Head of State asked Parliament to adopt the new Criminal Procedure Code, which aims to significantly strengthen the rights of a citizen in the criminal process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u147	Thank you, too. Roman Zvaric. Yuri Anatoliyovich, well, there will be people, then there will be a line. Come on, let's get people on the air. Please, Roman Mikhailovich. 12: 23: 26
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to apologize for your indignation. I want to say why I'm upset. I'm indignant that you can't so partially refer to the documents of international institutions when you're not ready to comply with all the requirements of the same international institutions that you refer to. If you want to have a moral right to refer to those documents, release Julia, release Lucenka, and then you will be able to refer to the resolutions of South Africa. Until then, don't be cynical, don't do this! Because it doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit this institution called the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Release Julia, release Lucenka, and then refer to PARJE. And now I'm going to want to talk essentially, I'm not going to want to talk about some, in my opinion less important things. But I say again that we have a challenge. The challenge is obvious. The system we live in is police. We live in a zone. We need to change the code. But we have a fundamental question before us, this is the fundamental challenge facing this Parliament. Whether we're going to change this system in part, this is actually what the President is proposing, with very progressive, in separate parts, proposals. I agree with that. But I think it's inadequate to consider the state of things that we're all in today. I'm suggesting radically, radically changing this system so that we can just call it actually democratic. She's not like that, gentlemen. And I say again, what we're going to do today may turn out to be a boomerang against us tomorrow. That's why I'd still ask you to stop. If you adopt the president's law, the president's code in the first reading, then agree that you will have to work very seriously on it in the second reading. And I hope that you will be willing to support those necessary proposals that will be made by the opposition deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u149	Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz. Well, please. Please, the closing word. I'm trying to remember. 12: 26: 16
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, today's discussion of the drafts of the Criminal Procedure Code resembled yesterday's discussion of the same documents at a committee meeting. You know, on the one hand, we want the whole soul to change the procedures for criminalizing Ukrainian citizens to be held accountable, and on the other hand, we are obliged to ensure the maximum rights and freedoms of these citizens. I am confident that the main idea of the Criminal Procedure Code, which will be adopted in the final edition of the Supreme Council, should be to protect people's rights and freedoms from criminal persecution. Every human must be given and guaranteed the right to defend his constitutional rights. I, my honourable colleagues, would like to ask if you would adopt a decision on the adoption of the Presidential Bill as a basis, and I think this will be the case, I would ask that the ruling oblige the Committee to prepare for the second reading and to reconcile the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code with the relevant provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 80, article 121 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And the second. We must, I think, write down in the regulation the possibility of considering the formation of a system of pretrial investigation bodies. Third. We should certainly note in the decree that granting the Security Service such unlimited powers to investigate criminal matters is a huge mistake that can lead to very negative consequences. So all of these questions, I also think they can and will be handled in preparation for the second reading. We have the impression on the committee that the President's representatives are prepared for some compromise, ready for cooperation, and the experts of the Council of Europe are ready to work together. So if there's any possibility of drafting a bill, we'll work on it. But I don't think we can let the Criminal Procedure Code, if approved, lead to a collapse of the legal system. And this could happen if we adopted the Criminal Procedure Code as it is now submitted to the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Replica, one minute, Carmazin. Please. I'm the only one asking. 12: 29: 06
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u152	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank you, Your Honor Andrey Volodymyrovich, for allowing me to express my views and thank you to the majority of the Dry Ones, because without him, I would probably not have given my word to Mr. Head. So, dear friends, I wanted to bring you back to this document, this document is called the Constitution of Ukraine. Transitional positions refer to the system of pretrial investigation. You have been given the opportunity of the Lord to form this trial now. You don't want to do that. And that's how we mark the Constitution. This is a observation by the scientific and expert government of Ukraine, which here lists dozens of violations of the Constitution and the general conclusion is that it is based on fundamental principles that are conceptually inconsistent with the prescriptions of the current Criminal Code. Next. These are the findings of the 90 - page international community. I have quoted here only that it is not pierced by the requirements of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And then there's another, there's this 362 point about what's not completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u153	Yes, thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich, finish, 10 seconds, please. 12: 29: 17
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u154	. There is also 366 dedicated to the whole role of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm not talking about what you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u155	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion. Obviously, we had the opportunity to express our views, observations, assessments, and suggestions. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much: let us take the bill as a basis, clearly on the timetable of forces, which will be the bill proposed by the President. At the same time, I would ask the committee to prepare a draft adoption decision on the basis of which you have just discussed to ensure that we do not have infertile disputes; to foresee the creation of a working group that would necessarily be represented by specialists from the President of Ukraine, from the judicial and law enforcement systems, and obviously need to involve representatives from other professional committees in order to process the document and prepare it for the second reading. And I would ask that we follow a clear regulatory procedure here, so that we don't have any persecution, but that we don't have a delay. We need to adopt this document, but such a document so that we will not be exposed again to criticism by experts from European structures. Since we are already working with them, we should obviously have discussions and make logical decisions. So I would ask that we be dominated by this kind of working mood. And please support my left offer, and the right side of the hall. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[Registration number 9700]] [[President]] Please vote, please support. Well, I just expressed my point of view as a deputy. 12: 33: 02 For 253 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions? Please. The Party of Regions - 189, "BUT - "The Fatherland" - 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 10, communists - 0, "Reforms for the Future" - 18, "The People's Party - 20, "Afterfaction" - 16. [[You didn't listen, you see.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that we now consider the question of appointment, the release of judges, but before that. [[B in m in s a l in]] At 12: 30 a.m., we agreed that we would not take a break, for at 12: 30 a.m., you agreed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, now. And before that, my colleagues, as well as according to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko, Fatherskina, on 9 February 2012, I inform you of the election of the first deputy leader of the BUT-Fatherschina faction of the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Vladislavovich, as well as the election of the deputy head of this faction of the Ukrainian national deputy Zabzaluk Roman Omelanovic. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question of election, the release of judges is under review. The reporter is the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u156	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of the Act, and examined the referral of citizens, civil society organizations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who reached the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine at the time of the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the submission of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u157	Draft decision 9688.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u158	To elect Kurtushlayev Murat Ismailovich, formerly elected as Judge of the Court of Justice of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u159	Yes, the honourable national deputies, I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of the judge. [[Registration number 9688]] Please vote. 12: 36: 34 For 261 Decision taken. Project Order 9688-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u160	Select the Son of Ludmila Pavlovna to serve as Judge of the District Court of Cherkas County. I want to give some information on the bruise.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u161	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u162	Honourable National Deputies, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of the activities of the judge of the City District Court of Cherkas region of Cincica Ludmila, reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Olijnik, at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on 12 January 2012. By a decision of the commission of October 11, 2011, it was recommended that it be elected as Judge of the City District Court of the Cherkas region on an uninterrupted basis. Under the circumstances defined by law that prevent Synics from recommending her to serve as a judge, the commission is not fixed on an uninterrupted basis. Reference to the activities of the candidate for judicial office, given to the judge of Sinice by the national deputy of Ukraine, Olijnik, to the address of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine, has not been made. All we've considered, all we've had is complaints, I can tell you what complaints, but they have no reason to bring the judge to disciplinary responsibility. In fact, these are complaints of judicial action by the judge in the course of the case. When it comes to dealing with specific matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, isn't there any objection? Please, Vladimir Oilynik, microphone. 12: 38: 14
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, thank you for the opportunity to express my point of view. All the questions related to the claims made by individual citizens to the judge were dismissed. And today I have no claim against this judge, and I think we need to back up the candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, there are no other thoughts? I'll bet on the vote on the bill of judges. Please vote. 12: 39: 01 For 268. Decision taken. Registration number 9688-2, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u166	Select Sital Andrija Kostinović to serve as Judge of Ordjonikidev District Court of Harkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u167	I'll bet on the vote on the bill of judges. Please vote. 12: 39: 39 For 264 Decision taken. 9688-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u168	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Black Sea District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Svetlano Volodymyrovna; Grandmother of the District Court of Dnipropetrovska Kudriavtsov Tetjana Alexandrovna; Ingulatsky District Court of the Horn of Creature Dnipropetrovsk District of Ivanova Sergio Mikolaiovich; The Constantinen Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Mirosedi Andrija Ilić; The Selidium City Court of the Donetsk district of Jarov Julius Igorovna; The Hartz city court of the Donetsk district of Lutai Andrija Mikolaiovich; The Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Guridova Natalija Mikolaynowna; The Soviet District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of weakness, Oksana Anatoliyevna; The Commune District Court of Zaporozhye, Ivanina Yulia Viktorovna; Shevchenkov District Court of Zaporozhye Tobacco Marina Sergiyevna; Ulyanov district court of Kirovograd district of Yasinsk Leonid Yuriovich; The three-way district court of Luhansk district of Susky Oleg Ivanovich; The Novocahovian City Court of the Hersonian Region of Immortal Natalia Alexiyevna; The Deep District Court of the Czernovets region of Zurenko Vitaliy Anatoliyovich; Irina Markianovna, the commercial court of the Ternopil district.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on the Election of Judges. Please vote. 12: 41: 48 For 271 Decision taken. 9688-4, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u170	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Constantinen Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Belostok Olen Vasilovna; The Snow White City Court of the Donetsk Region of Varna Ludmila Alexandrovna; Mukatov District Court of Zakarpati District of Kucitar Yuri Juriovich; Heivoron District Court of Kyrovograd, Panasuk Igor Valentinović; The Krasnodon City Court of Luhansk Region of Smyrnov Valerija Volodymyrovich; The Lenin District Court of Lugansk Bugeru Olen Valerievna; The railway district court of Lvova Borovkova Dmitra Alexandrovich; The Chilean District Court of Odessa district of Balan Mikol Viktorovich; Kopetz Oleg Volodymyrovich, District Court of Odessa; Tarutin District Court of Odessa District Kravec Julian Ivanovich; The engaged district court of Sumi Jangol Yuggenija Vasilovich; The Ternopil City Court of Ternopil, Romazan Vladimir Viktorovich; The Donetsk District Administrative Court of Kozachenko Andrija Volodymirovich; the Economic Court of the Jítomir district of Mashewsk Oksana Petrovna; the Commercial Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Skaprowsk, Irina Mikhailnov; the commercial court of the Kirovograd district of Timoszewsk Victoria Victoria; The economic court of the Luhansk RegionMoscalenko Maria Alexandrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u171	Please, it's Oleg Lachak's microphone. 12: 43: 48
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u172	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the Chief Justice of Mr. Kolesnick and the Head of the Higher Qualifications Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are here in the Supreme Council, will we consider your application for discharge from the positions of judges Kiriev, Vuk and others who are considering political matters that govern political judgments? You bring the judges here to tell us how good they are. They depend on you for political solutions to the opposition, to the public, and so on. I ask you, tell the entire Ukrainian people to hear when the release of the murderer of Kiriev, who planted Timoshenko, is here? When's the release of the Wolf Killer? When will there be a trial by the Kharkiv judge, who today, contrary to criminal law, judges Timoshenko without her presence? Give an answer to the Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u173	Yes, Your Honor, I'm putting to the vote the bill of judges. Please vote. 12: 45: 23 For 267 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote, dear colleagues, well, there's no such thing. If the judge specifically referred to it, there was a question. Please, 9688-5, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u174	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Drisluk Andrija Igorovich, Svatanka Viktor Ivanovich; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of Zapotec Igorovich, Kuzmich Sergia Mikolaiovich, Matkovsky Zoriana Miroslavovna; Odessa’s Court of Appeal of Agriculture of Philinuk Ivan Georgievovich
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u175	It's a draft decision on the election of judges. Please vote. For what reason? Now, next ruling, you'll be speaking to the judges. 12: 46: 30 For 258. Decision taken. Please, 9688-6.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u176	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Ivano-Frankiv city court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Maximčin Yuri Dmitrovic; The hops of the County Court of Hmielna District of Kozak Oksana Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u177	Yes, dear fellows. Oleg Lazko, please, what can I do for you? 12: 47: 05
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u178	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head, I have just asked a question that millions of Ukrainian citizens are interested in. Gentlemen, our broadcasters, our radio audiences, you obviously don't know what people are talking about, millions of people all over the country are saying that there is no independent justice in the country. Millions of people are talking about torture by political opponents of today’s regime. Let's answer the questions that the people have authorized me to ask. I came from Kharkiv today. Yesterday, under the prison where Timoshenko is sitting, the Crimeans come up to me, the Harkians come up, and they all say, "What happens in our country when no one is planted." So tell me, you are responsible for the appointment of these murderers to positions that carry out political orders. You are responsible for this, just as are those who make these unjust judgments. Answer the Ukrainian people. Otherwise you will answer to history and to the Lord God!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear National Deputies! I ask the Secretariat to form Oleg Lášk's statement as a parliamentary request and send him to the High Council of Justice. Then we'll give you the information. Registration number 9688-6, the draft regulation deals with the election of judges. Please vote. 12: 48: 53 For 268. Decision taken. 9688-7, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u180	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Rieznikov Svetlana Sergiyevna; Shakhtar District Court of the Donetsk Region of Kapkin Alexander Borisovich; The Red Cross District Court of Makiyevka Donetsk Region of Rasudzaj Wadima Yakovic; The Meccatov District Court of Zacarpathia, Guti Olen Volodymyryn; Sikhov District Court of Lviv Black Sofia Zinovievna; The Biliai District Court of the Odessa District of Dranikov Sergija Mihajlovich; The Warlord City Court of Odessa District of Myslov Migalov; Kharkiv District Court of Kharkiv district of Shinkarczuk Jaroslav Anatoliyovich; Kyiv District Court of HarkovaGubsk Jana Vitaliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u181	Dear National Deputies! It's about the vote, the Order, the election of the judges. [[Registration number 9688-7]] I've already voted. I should have done it sooner, please. Well, you should have. I've announced, a vote is coming. We have to go early. 12: 50: 19 For 247 Decision taken. And please, Project Order 9788-8.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u182	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Chernyachiv District Court of the District of Žitomir District of Brukhovske Evgen Borisovich; The Arbusinian District Court of the Mikolai district of Kirimov Olga Mikolayovna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u183	Dear National Deputies! It's a draft decision on the election of judges. Please vote. 12: 51: 05 For 262 Decision taken. Yes, you have everything, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u184	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u185	Oh, there is, yes, please. This is Project Order 9688-9.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u186	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Delilian District Court of Kiev Nozdrakova Stanislava Viktorovich; The Solomonian District Court of Kiev, Ukraine, Vitalia Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u187	But for the record. One minute! On the subject of Nozdrakov Stanislav Viktorovich is a letter to the committee and was sent to me from the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the 5th page indicating that. What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u188	The fax came to us last night.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u189	Well, yes, then let me know, please. One minute! Igor Leonović, please, in connection with what is being addressed by the Attorney General’s Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u190	Thus, on February 8, 2012, a letter was sent by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of justice to the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine by facsimile with a request to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to consider the activities of the candidate for termless Judge Nozdrakova, and to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the results of the review of the information noted in the address of the Attorney-General. Well, big letter, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u191	Yeah, that's why. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, are you with this, yes, or with another? Please, the microphone. 12: 52: 49
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u192	Vladimir Yavorowski's House of Yulia Timoshenko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm not asking that a candidate for an everlasting Ukrainian, a cyanide, get off the list, I just have a question for him. Can I set him up?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u193	You may, Vitalia Vasilovich, approach the microphone on the balcony.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u194	I have a question for you. You're about to get voted in, and I'm gonna claim you as a judge, like I don't have a man. But tomorrow you're called to the President's Office or the day after tomorrow, lunch or lunch, or you're called by either Ljovczyn or someone else, and you're called up and given a task: there's this guy, this guy, he has to be put down, he's an opponent, every man. What are your actions? You will act in the same way as Kiriev, or you will act like a Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u195	I don't think Vitaly Vasilovich will go because he's independent. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u196	When I perform my duties, I am always governed by the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u197	Short and simple. Dear colleagues, I have an offer that relates to a letter from the Attorney General’s Office. Ask them not to consider the question of the appointment of Nozdrakov Stanislav Viktorovich directly on the committee and on the Higher Qualifications Committee, but to vote in favour of the election of the Ukrainian judge Vitali Vasilovich, the Thessaloniki District Court of Kiev. There's no objection. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. 12: 54: 47 For 275 Decision taken. Thank you. Now, draft decree 9688-10.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u198	To elect judges on an indefinite basis to serve as judges on an indefinite basis: The Kovellian District Court of Wallin County, Denisov Vitalia Pavlovich; The Lutsky District Court of Volin district of Klok Oleg Mikolaiovich; The Pavlovgrad District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Bondarenko Victoria Mikhailnov; The Kirov district court of Makiyevka Donetsk district of Sitinka Artem Igorovich; Ruzynski District Court of the district of Žitomir, Greek Mikhail Mikolaiovich; The Rakhiv District Court of the Zakarpat district of Tulik Ivan Ivanovich; The Basilian District Court of Zaporozhye district of Sidorenko, Julius Volodymyrna; Ryschev city court of Kyiv district of Kozin Svetlana Mikolayevna; The Lenin District Court of Kirovgrad Tichuk Natalija Alexiyevna; The Yellow District Court of Lugansk Tatarin, Olenna Anatoliyevna; The Galician District Court of the city of Lvov Kuriltsa Andrija Romanović; Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk District Court of the Odessa Region of Tolkachenko Alejandro Alexandrovitch; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Gurevski Vladimir Klimentijovich; The Bilopil District Court of the Suma District of Svigunenko, Julia Mikolayevna;
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u199	As for, I'm sorry, Svigunenko, right? Yes, please, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u200	The Bilopil District Court of the Suma District of Svigunenko, Julia Mikolayevna; The Lozov District Court of Kharkiv District of Gorchakov Olga Ivanovna; The Moscow District Court of Harkova Jermak Natalija Valentinovna; Johno-Frankiv district of Kobetsk Svetlana Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! Then at the suggestion of the People's Deputy, we will remove Svigunenko Julia Mikolayevna from the draft decree, vote in favour of the decree, and then discuss this particular candidate. No objections? Then I put to the vote the draft Order on the Election of Judges on an untimely basis by removing from the draft judge of the Bilopil District Court of Suma County Svigunenko Julia Mikolayovna. [[Registration number 9688-10]] Please vote. 12: 57: 39 For 268. Decision taken. Please, yes. 12: 57: 46
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u202	Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, distinguished national deputies, regarding Judge Svigunenko Julia Mikolayovna. I just got the paperwork before the meeting today, and I couldn't get my appeal to the committee to look into it. But Swirgunenko had case number 2-166 of September 16, and the same case as May 11, 2011, in part, that the decision of the judge in question was taken after the transfer of the deceased property of the father to the wife and the child -- the first decision, and the second decision -- in 2010 -- was also made by the same judge of May 11 on the same case, but vice versa. I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u203	Complete your opinion, please. 12: 58: 57
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u204	How can two different decisions be made by one judge on the same subject? I don't want to blame anyone, but I'm asking you to postpone the review after the approval of Svigunenko for the next meeting of the Supreme Council, and I'll send the necessary documents to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u205	Igor Leonovich, what is the position of the Higher Qualifying Commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u206	The position began because there was only one complaint at the time of the hearing, the defendant’s complaint. It is considered by a member of the commission. There was no basis for drawing a judge to disciplinary responsibility. There was no complaint against us, this complaint. Perhaps the judge will explain the point of the two decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, perhaps this is how we should proceed. If we listen to the judge's explanation now, and our colleague insists, we'll put it to a vote and we won't get a decision. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It would be better if we put a committee on board now and ask the High Qualifying Commission to consider this question -- and we'll take it to the next meeting. I would like to support this proposal, and Julia Mikolayevna would like to be calm as much as possible about this problem as possible, and especially to prepare her argument. Is there no objection? Thank you. 9688-11.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u208	Select judges previously elected without delay in the positions of judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Ivanenko Janu, Kravtsov Oleg Viktorovich, Maslo Inna Valentinovna; The Court of Appeal of the Suma District of Yaremenka Hennady Mikolaiovich; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal Sly Angelina Victorian; Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Jury of Oxan Vasilovna; Kharkiv's Chamber of Commerce Court of Gethman Ruslan Anatoliyovich; the Economic Court of the Odessa Region of Novikov Rita Georgievna; The Kharkiv Economic Court of Calantai Maja Wissarionowna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote a draft decision on the election of judges. Please vote. 13: 01: 37 For 266 Decision taken. 9688-12, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u210	To elect Parusnik's Jury Borisovich as Judge of the Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u211	I'll bet on the vote on the bill of judges. Please vote. 13: 02: 14 For 264 Decision taken. 9688-13, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u212	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Srebrenica, Tetjan Valeriyevna; The Court of Appeal in the Cherkas region of Fetisov Tetjana Leonidivna; Lviv's Court of Appeal of Plotnický Boris Dmitrovic; Kharkiv's Court of Appeal, Rossolov Viacheslav Volodymyrovich, Thiho Pavel Volodymyrovich; North London City Court of the Luhansk Region of Horbatenko Olen Mikhailnov; The Economic Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Great Nadia Leonidovna. With regard to Judge Kniazkova Valerija Volodymyrovich, on February 6, 2012, our commission received a statement on the impossibility of the last meeting of the Supreme Council in connection with family circumstances, so please remove the question from the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, the same statement came in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council 06. 12. This is a proposal: remove the name of Knjazkov Valerija Volodymyrovich from the project, which is the Economic Court of the Donetsk Region, and then vote on it. Is there no objection? I'm voting on a motion for a ruling on the election of judges with the deletion of the name of Kniazkov Valerija Volodymyrovich, the Economic Court of the Donetsk Region. [[Registration number 9688-13]] Please vote. 13: 04: 09 For 263 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u214	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u215	Thank you. I also invite you to report to the head of the High Council of Justice, Koleshnenko Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u216	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 24 January 2012 in accordance with article 126, part 5, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law of Ukraine on the judiciary and article 31 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to make appropriate submissions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All judges found out their actual will, their foreign influence, or their coercion. Project Number 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u217	10010.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u218	10010. About the release of the judges. In accordance with article 126, part 5, paragraphs 2, 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council introduces a draft Order, exempting judges: Lizant Petr Mihajlovich, Zakarpatsky County Court of Appeal, in connection with the application for resignation; Petrička Pavel Fedorovich, the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region, in connection with the application for resignation; A few weeks ago, Valentina Alexiyevna, Odessa Coast Court of Appeal, in connection with the application for resignation; Weaver Olga Alexandrovna — in connection with the achievement of sixty - five years; Viktor Afanasiyovich, Herson County Court of Appeal in connection with the application for resignation; Rešetara Vasil Ivanovich, Tajchev District Court of Zakarpatsk oblast, due to the resignation application; As well as Kotelevsky Vyacheslav Aleksandrovič, the Slavanoserbsky District Court of the Lugansk Region, in connection with the resignation claim. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote a draft decree on the dismissal of judges. [[10010]] Please vote. 13: 06: 35 For 255 I'll take the order. Next order, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u220	Draft decision 10010-1. The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, part five, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 106 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, articles 27, 32 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, proposes to release Kiaszczak Viktor Ivanovich from office as judge of the Court of Justice of the Sumsk district in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an indictment against him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u221	I'm betting on a motion for a 10010-1 vote for a judge's release. Please vote. 13: 07: 29 For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on your behalf, to welcome the judges who have just been elected to their posts on an untimely basis and to thank the judges who have served the required term, and today the Supreme Council has decided on their resignation and desire for health, faithful service to its calling and duty to be well. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning Ukrainians abroad]] [[Registration number 9047]] [[second reading]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Oleg Zarubinsky. Please. 13: 08: 33
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u222	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! On September 20, 2011, a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws was adopted, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent. [[concerning Ukrainians abroad]] [[Registration number 9047]] The committee was tasked with drafting the bill and submitting it to Parliament in a second reading. The committee was amended by the National Deputies of Karmazin, Humenyuk, Merchant, Hare, Pietovka, Tolstenka, Silent, Gnatkewich, who is also the head of the Professional Subcommittee. [[No father's name, I'm sorry.]] There were 44 revisions, 19 of them, 17 were rejected, 2 were counted, 6 was taken into account. The committee took note of their consideration. A working group was set up, including positions with the main developer - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the State Migration Service, the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Justice. Several times the project was presented to the committee, and the project was finally considered by the committee on December 21, 2011. In conclusion, it is recommended that the bill as a whole be adopted as the Law. I want to comment on some of the main points of the project. The project had previously proposed amendments to three laws: the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, the citizenship of Ukraine and the right status of Ukrainians. With regard to amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship, the project envisaged an addition to this law, as outlined in the old edition. Instead, on December 25, 2011, a new version of this law came into force, which does not contain the same standards as proposed. The committee therefore suggested that the bill should be excluded. In this connection, Yuri Anatoliovich’s amendment was rejected, only in this regard. I will also point out that the proposed changes involved strengthening the right to work with Ukrainians on an equal footing with Ukrainian citizens. As the relevant changes to the project are also made to the basic Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians, the bill was eventually settled. [[new article 9]] Thus, honourable colleagues, the project changes only to the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians, i.e. the project will have a new title: "To make changes to the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians". The principal legal office made a few comments on the project, including which the project could be accepted in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, then we have to vote on the law separately and then go to law school. Then. Obviously there won't be any insistence on amendments by the people's deputies, I mean about those amendments that aren't taken into account. Because it's about one law. The offer is clear, right? So I'm voting on a proposal by the committee to specify the name of the laws. On the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u224	That's right. The committee proposes a vote. 13: 12: 23 For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, are we still going to insist on the amendments or are we going to vote? No one insists on their amendments? Carmazine insists. 13: 12: 40
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u225	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr. Oleg for the thorough preparation of this law. On the 3rd amendment, I understood absolutely and I'm not asking a question. And here's the 13th question, 13th. I think you can count it, Mr. Oleg. Please take a look at what happens to others. I propose in article 9 the first part of the sentence after the words "has the right" to add the words "to education as well as the citizens of Ukraine." In accordance with article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship, foreigners and stateless persons who are permanently residing in Ukraine have the right to education equal to that of Ukrainian citizens, and all other foreigners and stateless persons pay for their education unless otherwise provided for by Ukraine's legislation and by Ukraine's international treaties. However, this situation is not fully taken into account in the proposed wording of this article. So I'm asking you to consider, then it's going to fall off, and I'm just going to take all the other amendments that have questions. Because it's a principle amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u226	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. It is a principle, so it was discussed very thoroughly on the committee. Such an answer, please accept it objectively. Since, according to part two of article 4 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, foreigners and stateless persons who are legally resident in Ukraine have the right to obtain higher education than the right to receive higher education at the expense of the national budget of Ukraine, local budgets, unless otherwise established by international agreements, agree on the duty given by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I would ask you to agree with the wording that foreign Ukrainians have, look at the far right column, and foreign Ukrainians are set quotas for admission to higher educational institutions in Ukraine every year within the scope of government procurement. You can agree that it's more right, because it's going to be real than, you know, if everyone wants it on a free basis. Well, by the way, it's not exactly fair to our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u227	I would ask Yuri Anatoliovich, if you would also agree that we should limit the scope of the law. And it's only about amending the Law on the Status of Ukrainians. We don't touch others. And the second. We need to define within the country and what is the right to access Ukrainian citizens to education: the Constitution and reality. There's a problem. So I would ask you not to insist on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u228	I said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u229	No, that's what they said. They said so, yes. Don't insist. Please, John the Rabbit. 13: 15: 27
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u230	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. This is Amendment 11. I'm here to reiterate the position that was thrown out by the first reading, where it's about what the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is developing and approving the program of return and establishment of foreign Ukrainians in Ukraine. The thing is, we have to think strategically. And not all the time will Ukraine lie in ruins. And we're going to have to develop legislation and programs to get the Ukrainians back to Ukraine. Take the study of Germany. They're ethnically returning any ethnic German. That's what the money is for. Take Israel’s experience, where even the law of return is similar and they feel the same way. So I don't know why they threw such an important position out of this bill. We need it as a sign of strategic thinking. How is it that our authority thinks so far of its nation?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u231	Thank you, I can report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u232	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u233	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, we did not simply throw it away, but we did a very serious analysis of the situation along with you. Thank you when you were at the committee meeting and saw that we were thinking strategically. So we want these things not to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. You know what kind of normative acts they have. And it was approved as a state-wide programme, which has a strategy, the laws of Ukraine. That's why we're leaving. The 28 amendments included, the exclusion of the above-mentioned regulations from the Cabinet of Ministers. In the committee's opinion, I'm the official opinion of the committee. The selected application needs budgetary funding. And according to the Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes, it can be defined as a state-wide program, and it must therefore be approved by the Supreme Council in the status of law, not by decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u234	Are you insisting on the amendment? No, it's not. Who else insists on their amendments? Please, John the Rabbit. 13: 17: 20
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u235	I have another principle of amendment. This is Amendment 39. I propose, once again, to renew article 11, which is in the law in force. This is about guarantees of the satisfaction of the national culture and language needs of the foreign Ukrainian. The point is that this article today says that Ukraine, with the aim of satisfying the national and cultural and linguistic needs of Ukrainians abroad, is providing for the rights of the Ukrainian minority abroad. For example, let me give you an example. The Harkow Agreements. Putin and Medvedev promised us that there would be two TV channels in Russia. No one wrote it in the contract, but it was just accepted. And today no one has any channels. Therefore, this article, which speaks of guaranteeing the satisfaction of the national cultural and linguistic needs of Ukrainians abroad, is necessary. I don't even know why she got kicked out. You look at the practice of Hungary, the practice of Slovakia, and any country, there are all these situations everywhere at the legislative level. They're protecting their compatriots, they're protecting them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u236	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, I can't agree again, we didn't throw anything away, you know that. And most of your rights, and thank you, are accounted for. Some of us really couldn't support it. And why was this not supported? Because the contents of article 11, which you are referring to, are much broader and are suggested to be presented in articles 10, 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5 of the project. So what you're saying is narrower, and it's in a larger volume, it's still the formulation that it is. What you're saying is not only thrown out, it is, but it's an integral part. Well, it's just technical, we're forced to do it, we didn't throw anything away. Thank you. Please leave it to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u237	Are you insisting? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, who else insists on their amendments? No, it's not. Oleg Aleksandrovich, what about the comments of the General Legal Department?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u238	The key point is, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. They're, well, they're irrelevant. The point is that we worked very closely with scientific and legal administration, and we actually agreed on a single formulation. It's about someone who can take care of these issues. Since we know that this is a function, I'm talking about the creation of appropriate special central executive bodies, the President of Ukraine. We wrote down very diplomatically and I think it's legal that this should be taken care of by the central authority of executive power. That's why we're not interfering with the President's authority. He can determine that these are active ministries. But he can, in accordance with the Constitution, and determine that later, as John Alexanderovich says, strategically could be a separate central authority of executive power, we don't call him. Moreover, if the structure of the executive organs is possible, this law will remain absolutely valid and invalid because we do not mention the name of the central executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws concerning foreigners. [[Registration number 9047]] Please vote. 13: 20: 56 For 324 The law is passed. The factions, please. The Party of Regions - 184, "BUT - Fatherland" - 54, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" -35, Communists - 0, "Reforms for the Future" - 19, People's Party - 20, non-fractional - 12. The draft Act amending article 23 of the Act on Shareholder Associations of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[about the release of shares]] [[Registration number 7509]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev. 13: 21: 40
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, I draw your attention to this bill, its content, and its meaning. If we accept it as proposed, it will mean that the State of Ukraine, in the face of the Cabinet of Ministers, will naturally be able to fill the statutory capital of one single shareholder society, which is called “Neftegas Ukraine”, with domestic or external government loans. But it will only be able to do so if we adopt a specific law to that effect, in which we will tell him how much of these bonds can be channelled into this specific statutory capital. This can only be done for this particular shareholder society. There are amendments to this bill. Only two amendments have not been taken into account, the amendment No. 2 of our colleague Karmazin and Amendment No. 3, Bolura have not been taken into account. All other amendments are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, amendment number three. Antonina Boloura doesn't insist? You don't insist, do you? No, it's not. Yes, all other adjustments are included. What about the comments of the Legal Department, Yuri Mikolaiovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u242	There's the amendment number two of Mr. Carmazin, which says, "Collected," actually, "Not counted." I can explain that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u243	Please. Yuri Carmazin, microphone. 13: 23: 09
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u244	Yuri Carmazin. Well, look, I saw it on the table, so I didn't raise my hand, yeah. All right, so to restore my rights, I'm going to give you the content of the amendment. In article 23, in the first part of the first word, "State bonds", replace the words "obligations of Ukraine's domestic state loans". This is for me to bring the provisions of this paragraph into line with the provisions of part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Securities and Stock Market Act, according to which, in order to pay for the distribution of shares, only the bonds of Ukraine's domestic state loans, as well as the mission of the foreign domestic bonds, are used to finance the deficit of the State budget, and the costs involved in the state budget from their deployment are used exclusively to finance public or regional programmes and projects on terms of return. For this reason, please support this proposal and I believe it was correctly written that this amendment should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u245	Dear colleagues, what is the difference between the bill written here and the amendment of Mr. Carmazin? He is absolutely right when he says that the money that is attracted from domestic or external government loans is actually money from the budget. And if we allowed, in this case, the statutory capital not only of this State enterprise to fill the OSGs with books, but also of all other shareholders, we would have a violation of the law. But we've narrowed it down to just one equity society to the state. A public equity society, the statutory capital, can only be filled from public funds and from budgetary resources. That's why we don't have a violation. That's the first one. And the second. If we had accepted Mr. Carmazin's amendment, then the State would not have the option of a luff, that is, it would only be able to provide an OCHA, an internal government loan nominated in a bracelet, and would not have been able to fill OCHA's statutory capital with foreign government loans nominated in a foreign currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 2, Yuri Carmazin, whom the committee has not counted. Please be sure. 13: 25: 49 For-29 Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u247	Regarding the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's two of them. First remark. They believe that it is wrong, when the laws state the name, to be the specific name of the shareholder society. I want to remind you, we have this everywhere, many laws have it, many times and many times. I don't understand that comment. In addition, the Committee believes and recommends that you do not extend this rule to all shareholders, which would be wrong. And the second point is that this would have to be transferred from article 23 to the End of Position. Well, it's technical, as if it doesn't really solve anything. I therefore propose to approve as proposed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u248	Thank you. I'm drawing attention to the point made by the legal authorities so that we don't have any veto problems. I would like to vote on the committee's proposal: on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill amending article 23 of the Act on Shareholder Associations. [[about the release of shares]] [[7509]] Please vote. 13: 27: 16 For 258. The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Certain Offences. [[Registration number 7483]] Reporter to the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, please. 13: 27: 46
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u249	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, held on 4 January 2012, a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Liability for Certain Offences, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Beváz, was considered. During the drafting of the bill for consideration in the second reading, 50 proposals were received from law - enforcement entities, 29 of whom were fully considered, and the rest of the amendments were rejected, since the previous amendments were taken into account. That is, there are no unaccounted for amendments to the bill. The final drafting committee amended articles 174, 190, 191, 192, 193, 194, 195 and 265 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which, like administrative responsibility for illegal activities related to the conduct of weapons, established a similar responsibility for devices for the disposal of ammunition equipped with rubber or similar non-lethal shells, the handling of special means of active defence, prize weapons, and increased sanctions for violations of the articles. Regarding the comments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority, the latter were the subject of a committee meeting. They conclude that a position has been expressed that, if there is a legal prohibition on the circulation of weapons and the rules for dealing with them have been laid down, with regard to the means of active defence, the award-winning weapons, and the special means of shooting the objects of an immortal act, they are regulated either by landmark orders, or by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, regulatory regulation The Chief Legal Authority believes that this law may not work in this part. During the discussion of these observations, members of the committee unanimously concluded that their consideration was totally in line with the purpose of the bill. The changes that have been made by the author of the legislative initiative are now relevant, aimed at strengthening the rule of law and improving the level of security of citizens and are therefore subject to support. I would also like to point out that the above-mentioned changes to effective legislation have been initiated by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine as a result of checks by the Departments of Public Security in the issuance of permits for the acquisition, storage and carrying of domestic production devices for the disposal of cartridges equipped with rubber or similar metal shells of non-lethal action, which have revealed significant disruption and non-regulation of the issue. In the light of the committee’s presentation, the Supreme Council recommends that the bill be adopted in second reading and generally as a law. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, as amended. No one insists on repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u251	They're all accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u252	Because they're accounted for. That's why I'm voting. Valerius Beales, please. 13: 30: 59
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u253	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like my colleague to support my proposal, and in the 190th, 191st and 194th articles of the Code on Administrative Offences, to add in part the responsibility of "containing special means of active defence." It's for the stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u254	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Your Honor Valery Ananiyovich, you know that this was the subject of committee discussion and this is one of the initiatives of the committee, because we could no longer prepare for the second reading, when everything was ready, to make any changes, if there were no objections to the session room, the committee would also insist that these changes be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u255	Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u256	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u257	Well, then we'll take into account the final preparations for signing this bill. Dear colleagues, there's a motion to vote. Take down the vote. Yuri Carmazin. 13: 32: 01
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u258	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to bring you back to prose. Article 190. In the title of the article, I suggested that we exclude the proposed as a complement to the term "special means of active defence." That is, leave the title of the article in its original form, namely: "Contravention by citizens of the order of purchase, storage and transfer to others of the sale of firearms, cold or pneumatic weapons." It is explained that the proposed supplement is not in line with the current legislation of Ukraine, since active defence means include rubber rods, plastic rods of the type of tonfa, handcuffs, electroshock devices, cartridges and devices for them, equipped with rubber or similar, etc., hand grenades and gas grenades, gas cartridges, balloons and so on. According to current legislation, electrical shock devices and special devices used by law enforcement agencies other than gas guns and revolvers and ammunition are used.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u259	Yes, please, Victor Victorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u260	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, the very content of this law is that it is the special means of active self-defence and the devices for firing rubber bullets and others that have been regulated, and the activity of these devices has been banned. Therefore, your amendment was rejected by the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u261	I'm voting on Yuri Carmazin's amendment. Yeah. You don't have to? We're taking it off the vote. Now, if you'd like to take a look at the legal department, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u262	Regarding the point made by the legal authorities. The legal authorities point out that if all arms are regulated by legislation, that is, part cannot be owned by citizens, public organizations, public institutions and enterprises, and another part, the round is regulated and the ban on their activities is regulated by certain types of laws, as well as by provisions on the list of types of property that cannot be held by citizens, public associations, international organizations and legal persons of other States in Ukraine, as well as on the means of active defence, arms, as well as the means of firing rubber bullets and other trauma devices, the circulation of these items is regulated either by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, or, worse still, by the decisions and orders of the Minister of Internal Affairs. So the scientific and expert office thinks that until these objects are regulated at the legislative level, it is impossible to hold people responsible for the circulation of these devices for their implementation and use. We firmly disagree with that decision. We have the author of a legislative initiative that is not limited to actually bringing them to the list at the level of firearms. This can be done without the bill being adopted today. The bill regulates, in an extreme case, the administrative responsibility for the illegal use of these funds. In general, they were actually circumvented by decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and orders of the Minister of the Interior, which are also normative acts required for execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, an explanation has been given. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Individual Offences. [[Registration number 7483]] Please vote. 13: 36: 06 For-63 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u264	To the others again? Please, just take the second one out again. I'm voting on a motion for a second bill again. Maybe it will, but something better will happen, and that's it. 13: 36: 34 For 245 Decision taken. I'm asking the committee at the next meeting to make a final decision, not to play football. I'm announcing for consideration the draft Nuclear Fuel Management Act. [[Registration number 8795]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Martinenko. Please. 13:37:00
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u265	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies, your point is a comparative table, processed by the committee for the second reading of the draft Nuclear Fuels Act. [[Registration number 8795]] The text of the adopted law in the first reading came with eight suggestions from Ukrainian national deputies. From Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich 5 suggestions. Of these, three are counted, one is well-founded, one is partially accounted for. From Skubenko Vladimir Petrovich, 3 proposals, of which 1 is partially taken into account, are based on 2 reasons. The essence of the proposals and the decisions taken are reflected in the table. There was some criticism of the bill. But they worked in the table for the second reading, especially the question of what kind of spent fuel would be stored. The amendment by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin says that native atomic blocks and all. Thank you for your attention. And ready to go, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u266	Yes. Is Scooby insisting on his amendment? Microphone, please. 13: 38: 10
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, I would very much like you to take a closer look at the amendment to the article that is proposed. It is necessary to make the following proposal in the context of design and operation. Requirements for informing authorities and the population about the state of radiation safety of the object and the environment at all stages of its construction and operation. You know that the issue of the construction of such a shelter is of sufficient social importance, and there is already a serious discussion around it. We are on the territory of the Chernobyl station, on the territory of the alienation zone, building a new nuclear facility that will work for at least 50 years. That is why the population, which, yes, provides for social benefits in many positions, but the population must be informed. We have considered this issue at a meeting of the National Commission and believe that it is necessary to provide for public information in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u268	Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, there is an appropriate justification for the committee in this matter, yes, but let the hall be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u270	I'm betting on the vote amendment number 4 of the National Deputy Scubenko, who has been rejected, to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 13: 39: 56 For 255 Correction counted. Next amendment, Yuri Carmazin, 5th amendment. Microphone, please. 13: 40: 05
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u271	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to thank Mikola Volodymyrovich and the committee for their thorough work and motivation. That's why I don't see the need. Although there is a theoretical question. But I don't see the need to push and sound. I won't waste my time. I think the law can be passed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u272	So you took out this amendment? Yeah? That's right. Because an international treaty is engulfing an international obligation. Otherwise, one of the politicians will go, say, I promise - and there will be an international commitment. Yeah, that's it. Scooby, 8th Amendment. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please. 13: 40: 58
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u273	Dear colleagues! I believe that this amendment is very important in that we have decided by this Act on the commencement of construction and operation, on the location and operation of the facility in the Chernobyl area. But we don't generally define how to deal with it. Imagine, we've taken the fuel of domestic nuclear reactors there, but we have no idea what to do with it. Whether or not it's a deferred solution system. We wait for the technology to be used in the future. If it's a burial system, it's another system. Therefore, the following is recorded in my amendment. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine develops and approves the concept of long - term nuclear fuel management year after year. That's a very, very serious question. And I think he needs to be taken seriously. And commit the Cabinet of Ministers to develop such a concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u274	Dear colleagues! Under the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Decisions on the Placement, Design, Construction of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Management of Radioactive Wastes, which are of general significance, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to authorize the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers only to place the construction of a centralized nuclear fuel depot of domestic nuclear power plants. So in this situation, we have this painting that the Cabinet of Ministers accepts, and the Supreme Council approves.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u275	Is the explanation clear, fellow believers? But in view of the insistence and right of the author of the amendment, I put her to the vote, which is the 8th amendment. 13: 42: 58 For 212 The amendment is not accepted. Yes, all the amendments have been considered. Dear colleagues! Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u276	Dear colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, the bill has been drafted without notice and it has been noted that it can be accepted in second reading and in general as a law. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Nuclear Fuel Act to be adopted on second reading and in general with a new name, as amended: on the treatment of spent nuclear fuel with regard to the deployment, design and construction of a centralized repository of spent nuclear fuel reactors of the type of VWP of domestic nuclear power plants. [[Registration number 8795]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, we need to vote separately on the title of the law. The committee’s proposal to define a new name for the draft law is therefore put to the vote. Please vote. 13: 44: 16 For 273 The law is passed, thank you. Huh? Next? What, what? Aah! Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, it's a good point. We voted on the name, and now we have to vote on the law itself. The proposal for a second reading adoption committee and, as a whole, the draft law of the Nuclear Fuel Act is put to the vote. [[Registration number 8795]] Please vote. 13: 45: 02 For 276 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we should be looking at the Industrial Parks Bill with you right now. I would ask the committee and the rapporteur to agree with the legal authorities on article 116 of the Rules and then return to this law. Here's a note, so we don't have a problem. Okay? Thank you. Take away what's in conflict. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act on information to the consumer of tourism services is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 7097]] Reporter - head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports and Tourism, Eugene Suslov, please. 13: 45: 54
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u278	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, at its meeting, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act (for information to the consumer of tourism services), introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 07.09.2010 (registration number 7097). The purpose of the draft law is to protect the rights of consumers of tourism services, to provide consumers with the necessary, accessible, reliable and timely information on the tourist product, which will ensure their informed and competent choice. The adoption of the draft law will result in the introduction of legislation in the field of the provision of tourism services in accordance with European Union legislation. The bill deals with the following issues. First. It is mandatory for tourists to provide the necessary accessible, reliable and timely information on a tourist product embodied by supplementing the law with a new article 19, entitled "Information. Consumers about the conditions for the provision of tourist services." New obligations are also laid down, the terms of the tourist service contract being implemented by means of a new edition of article 20 of the tourist service contract. Finally, article 23, concerning a voucher, is also proposed to remove a number of suggestions related to this. In preparation for the second reading, many comments and suggestions were made to the draft law, and in preparing for the second reading the committee considered and considered. The second reading of the bill took into account the opinions of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Tourism Service and resorts and held a number of round tables with the public. Many suggestions came to article 23, which refers to a voucher that was accepted in the first reading, suggested that the article should be deleted altogether. But when the bill was discussed, everyone unanimously decided to leave the article on voucher to the law. The committee received 62 proposals for the bill. All accounted for, 4 of them included in part. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, here is such an interesting case, not so often, that when all the amendments were taken into account, that and the amendments were correct, and the committee worked hard, that is. True, the Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill should be rejected. Yeah. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, put to the vote a proposal from the Committee first on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act concerning the information of the consumer of tourism services. [[Registration number 7097]] Please vote. 13: 49: 23 For 228 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the regulation of the broadcasting of programs and online bidding broadcasts]] [[4510]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Please. 13: 49: 53
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u280	Dear colleagues, on May 12, 2011, Bill 4510 was sent to read again. The Rules provide for the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information to amend the National Deputies, which were considered by the Committee. 5 was counted, one is partially counted, 4 is rejected. In accordance with the decision of the committee approved at the meeting on 16 November 2011, a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting was recommended for adoption in the second reading and in general. I would like to remind you that the adoption of this bill requires the elimination of legislative gaps that allow individual television channels to actually engage in fraud by broadcasting live television and online competitions, so-called games and quizrals. I'm going to point out that if we support the bill in the form proposed by the Main Committee, we will create conditions for interactive television not to be accompanied by the deception of our fellow citizens and to become more civilized. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u281	Now let's talk to Yuri Anatolyovich, he's got some repairs. Then we'll move. Yuri Anatolyevich, your amendment, 3rd. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please. 13: 51: 05
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u282	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are right: most of my amendments have been rejected here, so there may be a re-examination or veto. That's not right. I propose in the 3rd amendment paragraph of the first part of the third article 6 to read: "It is forbidden to broadcast except on channels with restricted access, programs and online competitions, games, quizzes where viewers and listeners are not allowed to win in cash or property for personal victory they are offered to contact the organization in any way: to make a telephone call, to send a short text message to the mobile phone, etc. - which predicts the cost of connecting or telephone conversation." The second option is, "or when conditions that directly or indirectly provide for the acquisition of a person's status as a participant. This position is not extended to broadcast programs and broadcasts from the games of state lotteries that were acquired by their participants in the established legal order." It's me to protect those pensioners who are taking part today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u283	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u284	That's absolutely right. We're in this one, in the alternative to your amendment, in the second one, that's all we've taken into account. Only, the only thing that you have is a list of allowed species and forms of interactives, we've decided to clearly write them down and count them, that's all the difference.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u285	Are you insisting, Yuri Anatolyovich? Because the second amendment actually takes into account your position, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u286	Absolutely, yes. The only thing we're counting is a clear list for our law enforcement agencies, and you're not counting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u287	I'm betting on a vote of 3 amendments. Please identify yourself. 13: 53: 01 Z-11. Decision taken. No, I'm sorry. Amendment 6, Carmazin and 7th, and 8th, and. Yes, three corrections are out of the question. Please, the microphone. 13: 53: 13
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u288	Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're already talking. And I strongly protest that we didn't have one minute of recess, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I don't know how that goes, but I think there's a rule, please. We have a very difficult day today and many drafts. That's why we need to protect the deputies. You'll still need them, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I propose at 6am, in the Television and Radio Act in Article 55. In the first sentence, after the words "competitions, games, quizzes," the words "must be carried out live, not in writing". Why? Because if it's not in writing, then there's no fraud. If in the format of the record, what kind of parts could there be? That's why I suggested you consider this amendment. I don't understand why she couldn't be counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u289	Yuri Anatolyevich, well, just the committee came out that this amendment applies only to restricted channels. And since we still have the basic law on the broadcasting channels, not on restricted channels that we do not actually have, but only with the beginning of digital television, the committee decided not to take your amendment into account, but to define it more widely, where quizrals and lottery tickets are allowed on these channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u290	Honorable National MPs, vote 6 amendments. 13: 55: 02 Z-11. Correction not supported. And as for Yuri Anatoliyovich's comments, which was not a break, we're going to increase the lunch break from 14 to 16 hours. Yes, Amendment 7, would you insist on it, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please. 13: 55: 16
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u291	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you watch television every day, you see the number of ads, everything else. Today, it pleases the committee. It is surprising to me that the committee is satisfied with this. But we abuse the whole country. There's no place like this that's half an hour away. Well, God be with them. I'm going to this law. I'm proposing at the end of the second sentence after the words "it's pay," where you add the words "audiovisual information about the size of pay for phone calls and text messages, as well as other free additional information about the selected broadcasts. So people can see that this is the cost of phone calls and messages. And so they say, call, text, and then it turns out that children who take part or retirees are completely disintegrated and disintegrate. These are absolutely life experiences. As a result, I made such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u292	Yes, we absolutely agree, Yuri Anatolyevich. That's why we introduced this law, and I was the author of this law, that it was the retirees and the children who were underage especially, that we didn't get that information in the broadcast channels. Your amendment only applies to restricted channel(s) where the encoding will be. And it's actually in the future. That's why every year.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u293	I'll bet you a vote on the 7th amendment, please. 13: 56: 51 For the 15th. Correction not accepted. Are you insisting on 8 amendments, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone. 13: 56: 57
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u294	Yuri Carmazin. I'm grateful to our reporter that she's beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u295	He's also smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u296	Consider some things. But the question is, What should we think in advance by adopting the law? We don't need to pass the law yesterday. As a result, I am surprised that we do not accept these adjustments. God be with him. But part two of article 55, I suggest you put it this way: "There should be information on the screen in real-time broadcasts and online contests, games or quizzes, which should be in contrast to the color of the warning background, and its size should be no less than the size of the phone number that participants are offered to call. At the bottom of the screen -- the cost of calling the studio or another way of paying for the contest, at the top -- the warning that they're paid. " And then it'll be perfectly clear to everyone. I think you'll take this amendment into account. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u297	I'm putting to the vote the 8th amendment with a reference to the majority. Right, Yuri Anatolyovich? 13: 58: 25 For-29 Correction not accepted. All corrections are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u298	The rest are accounted for. The last Yuri Anatoliovich is considered for color. In fact, it is a complement to the previous, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u299	What about the legal authorities' observations, Olena Constantineno?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u300	As far as the legal authorities are concerned. Law enforcement told us that we didn't clearly write out what is a restricted channel. We think that we've written it out well enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-09-m0.u301	I'm betting on a motion for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[concerning the regulation of the broadcasting of programs and online bidding broadcasts]] [[Registration number 4510]] Vote. 13: 59: 22 For 302 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, are we going to work or are we going to take a break? [[B in m in s a l in]] The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed until 4:00. Since 16 o'clock, we will continue to consider issues that have not yet been addressed.
