ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:19]] They registered in the 399 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies: Martinenko Mikoli Volodymyrovich and Schmel's Svetlana Alexandrovna. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and great success in their work. [[Applause]] I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 11 January 2012. 18 issues of the agenda have been considered: one law and two decrees have been passed, 10 bills and 4 draft regulations have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, as well as with the minutes of the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 11 January 2012, I inform you that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. [[Applause]] Yes, we did. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, in accordance with the Rules, require a recess to hold consultations on issues of order and declaration. That's why I'm making a compromise proposal. I will ask the factions and groups to meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As we discuss the proposals made by the representatives of these two factions, the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will be chaired by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, continues. Dear colleagues, this "no" is yours to forget. Yesterday you said no. If you want to work, let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our consideration of matters in the daytime. There is a question of recalling the headship of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. There's a suggestion that we do this: listen to the reporter's information, follow the brief procedure: listen to the reporter's information; if we need to speak, two-for-two-against -- and then figure out how we're going to deal with this issue. I ask you to support the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Although that's the norm. [[10:05:51]] For-195 Thank you. Reports Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna, the first deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u3	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear community! For consideration by the Council, the issue of distrust of Mr. Shevchenk was raised as the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. There are many reasons, and there are many: the actual breakdown of the committee's work, the attempts to politicize its activities, and to frame the committee's secretariat; the abuse of office and the excess of authority; the systematic violation of the Ukraine's Committee Act, i.e. the adoption of single decisions and attempts to issue them as collegiate. Perhaps the practice of falsifying directives involves not only the leader of the BUT but also some members of its faction. Here Mr. Shevchenko made his personal correspondence, not on the deputy’s forms, but on the committee’s forms. This led to a very serious mix-up at the Council Secretariat. Lawyers were lost, where the committee’s actual decision was, and where the individual opinion of the individual MP was. A simple fraud, namely: an attempt to take a one-person decision and attempt to deceive the head of the Council of the Council of Zajczuk, that this is the decision of the entire committee; an ongoing attempt to hinder the activities of the other deputies from delaying consideration in the committee of individual bills to irresponsible "and I forgot to put a bill of deputies before the session," which in fact led to the repeal of the bill and its re-registration; and the concealment, in fact, of censoring the Committee's correspondence. A fresh example is the situation around the Money Channel 1+1 program, when a letter of complaint came to the committee about the violation of the laws, morals and ethics of the 1+1 channel, and it was only through the media that almost a month and a half later we learned that it was such a complaint. It turns out that Mr. Shevchenko, for unknown reasons, has not shown it to anyone — that is, he has hidden it from the committee and secretly passed it on to the channel. Moreover, he did not even answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u4	Finish up, finish up. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u5	Also, attempts to manipulate the public opinion about the bill, the committee’s activities, and even the real causes of distrust on the part of the committee’s colleagues. For the sake of the truth, I will remind you that the committee has expressed its mistrust to Mr. Shevchenko for the second time. In the fifth vocation, even if the committee was different, Mr. Andrew was also removed from the chairmanship of the committee for similar illegal and immoral acts. If Mrs. Gerasimük is in the hall -- unfortunately not -- she will remember how she then caught Mr. Shevchenko's hand in falsifying the committee's minutes and the questions that the deputies had not been briefed on. At that time, Mr. Shevchenko even had to apologize in writing to the members.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u6	Thank you. The point is that when we consider the issue, you will have the opportunity to make a broader report. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, you and I are now discussing only inclusion in the agenda. That's why I'm asking you to sign in: two for, two against. Yes, please, Stishenko. Romance is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u7	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Sergei Vladimirovich Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u8	Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to state that we do not have the right today to include the matter in the order of the day. I find it difficult to comment on what the first deputy chairman of the Committee of Helen Bondarenko has just said. But we've been handed out material on the withdrawal from the minutes of the session, the only reason it's said, about the unsatisfactory work of National Deputy Shevchenk in the first chair of the committee, is the failure to convene three committee meetings. There are no other things that Bondarenko said. This is an extract from the committee's minutes. And the committee decided to write to the Head of the Supreme Council to consider the appeal procedure in accordance with part six of article 43. Open, Adam Ivanovich, 43 article, and part of the sixth article reads: "According to the committee's decision on the subject of the Rules. Our committee did not consider this question, regardless of what was the mandate of the Chief of the Supreme Council in this regard. Hence, there is no reason for today to include the matter in the order of the day. There are no other reasons for the committee’s decision to withdraw the head of the committee from office. Dear Adam Ivanovich, it is essential that the commission of the Head of the Supreme Council be carried out. The committee considered the issue of the Rules whether there were really three meetings scheduled, whether the facts were true. Otherwise, we are considering this fact, an unprecedented fact, such as persecution, an act of persecution of opposition, another act of repression after Timoshenko, an attack on opposition, the removal of her right of control in the Supreme Council. So, Adam Ivanovich, I ask you, as a person who knows the procedure, to clearly abide by the Committees and Rules Act when considering this matter. It's a reason to turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u10	That's what's gonna happen. Although, I'm sorry, Shevchenko is far from Timoshenko, he's not pulling. Romaniuk, please, Mikola. Behind him is Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u11	I'd like to give Gennadia Samofalov a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u12	Gennady Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u13	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! For the first time, I had encountered the work of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information for four of my parliamentary activities. There was one reason. A year ago, a draft law on the protection of public morality was registered in Parliament. I believe that this must be one of the main laws of the State. Because all that is happening today, particularly corruption and so forth, is immoral, immoral things. This law is essential, but Mr. Shevchenko has in any way blocked the consideration of this law on the committee. When he was gone, the Committee met and decided by a large majority to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the law on first reading. On first reading, the law was passed, also by an overwhelming majority. I spoke to Comrade Shevchenko yesterday: it has been a long time since the committee has considered the amendment to second reading. I say, "Andrey, please, let's consider how the committee will decide -- question two, the session will decide in plenary meeting." He said, "Gennady Grigoryevich, I don't mind if we don't look at it." I say, "I don't mind when the committee considered it on first reading," and so on. He promised me that there would be a committee yesterday and amendments would be considered. Unfortunately, that didn't happen because it's stopping. I believe that this is not a kindergarten, it is the head of the most serious committee, and it must work as stated in our Rules. I therefore fully support the draft decision that my colleague Bondarenko has made: to resolve the issue positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u14	He's stoned. Get ready, Karpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u15	Kamchat, MP, Reforms for the Future, Kharkishte. Dear colleagues! On behalf of our group, we would like to focus on the following things. First of all, as deputy head of the regulatory committee, I support my colleague, Sasa, in that the issue is being resolved in an entirely illegal manner, in violation of the Rules. Therefore, we call on our colleagues to ensure that in this case all the Regulations and the rules of the relevant laws are respected. And the second. Our group, which now has 21 national deputies in its ranks, is in general artificially alienated from a similar kind of negotiation. The two political forces find each other’s relationship, at least in this case. We who have the right to a quota representation, and at least to participate in the discussion of these issues, are removed. So as long as we are thus removed, our group will not participate in such votes. We do not support the introduction of this issue into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u16	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u17	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We're asking Andrew Schewchenk at all, that's a pretty important question. And I'm asking you to pass on the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u18	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Karpuk. I want to emphasize what's going on right now. Now someone seems to be changing or removing from office Andrew Shevchenko, or someone considers it to be an improvement or improvement in the work of the committee that he heads: freedom of speech, press, information. And in fact, there's this creeping process that's been happening for the last two and a half years in Ukraine. Today’s authorities are consistently destroying and destroying freedom of speech in Ukraine. And of course they need it to destroy and destroy freedom of speech without any particular problems, without any particular difficulty, and without the support of the Supreme Council's PIC committee, they need to remove the head of the committee who is on guard for a word that cares for, at least for the remainders, the remnants of freedom of speech and the uncensored media that still hold a blow, which provides at least a weak representation of free access to information from society in Ukraine, to take it away from this, I think, a complex but very necessary role. This committee has always been opposition, it has belonged to opposition, and when there were democratic forces in power, it has given you, the totalitarian forces you now represent in Ukraine, the opportunity to govern freedom of speech, to run the Supreme Council Committee on Freedom of Speech. And now you're taking this freedom of speech in opposition under any circumstances. Someone likes you, someone doesn't like you, someone comes to the committee, whether they come or not, it's all nonsense that you don't even have the brains to cover up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u20	Please, one minute, Shevchenka. The name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u21	Thank you. Well, you know, I've heard so many things about myself in the reporter's speech that I think I deserve at least seven years of strict duck regime or a shot. You know, I'll just say three facts. Fact number one. We are in session, the last meeting of the committee was on November 16, December 30, and yesterday, January 11, where there was a quorum and all the decisions were unanimous. Fact number two. The decision, which is now being made as a committee decision, was approved solely by members of the committee, which belongs to the factions of the majority. No representative of the opposition was present at the committee meeting to consider the matter. Fact number three. We have 11 members of the committee, six of them are members of the majority factions, they have a quorum in their hands, and they have a decision to make. So, you know, I propose that we approach this issue today as we want to be treated by our Parliament. Whether it governs the rules, whether it is fair, whether it shows respect for one another, or whether we will be guided by the personal ambitions of the individual MPs that work for us. I thank you all for your support.() [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I, the accusers that there is a violation of the Rules and so on and so forth that we do not have the right to consider, declare with all responsibility that there is no violation of the Rules. Because 83 articles of the Rules, 6 articles of the Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine gives the right to any committee at any time to withdraw from office the head of the committee, the first deputy head of the committee and other officials of the committee. This decision is made by the majority. What motive is already the committee's business. Neither in the Rules nor in the Law is it clearly stated, which is why mistrust can be expressed, is simply the right of committee members to express this mistrust. But the committee's decision is just a recommendation to the Supreme Council, because the Supreme Council is making the final decision. Therefore, according to article 83 of the Rules, we are not discussing this issue with you today, we are only discussing the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day. And so today it is suggested that the decision be made to include tomorrow, on January 13th, the question of recalling the headship of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Please vote. [[10:20:11]] For 241 So tomorrow we're going to be looking at the full procedure as envisaged in 83 articles. And one more thing. As far as I know, and this is what we've been talking about and on the advisory boards, there have been public statements by the factions of the majority, primarily the factions of the Party of Regions, that no one is taking away the opposition from this committee. So behind the opposition is the right to recommend, if we decide tomorrow to resign, to withdraw from the post of chairman of the committee, then even tomorrow opposition factions can offer another candidate, and the Supreme Council can support it if we call this off. I can do anything. A draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings is under consideration on "The State of Religious Relations in Ukraine". [[Registration number 9486]] Please, Maroustenka. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u23	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I would ask that we do not consider the decision today because, in our view, it is extremely important and relevant, and there is a need to continue political consultations. A big request: Let us move it to the next session and consider it sometime in February.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? I then, with your permission, make the author's proposal about. That doesn't apply to you yet, sorry. You're not the author of the bill. If we look at it, you will. There is a proposal to support the proposal of the drafters of the bill to move the matter forward. Please vote on the postponement of the hearing. Vote. [[10:22:31]] For-68 Unfortunately, it's not supported. Then there is an offer to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:22:49]] For 224 Supported. Please, Volodymyr Stanislavovich, report the draft ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! While noting the positive gains in state-church relations over the period of independence of the Ukrainian State, it also seems important to isolate the urgent issues, their further development, which will both contribute to the further affirmation of cooperation between the Church and the State, and to ensure interfaith and social harmony. In view of the above, we are invited to hold parliamentary hearings on 14 March 2012 on "The State of Religious Relations in Ukraine". The idea of holding such parliamentary hearings is supported by the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organizations, which includes the leading Churches of Ukraine such as the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate, the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, the Roman Catholic Church, and the Jewish and Muslim religious communities representing a total of 95 percent of the religious organizations of Ukraine. I would like to point out that parliamentary hearings on this subject are taking place. could take place for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, which would demonstrate the attention of the higher legislative body and the Ukrainian State as a whole to the development of State-church relations and the protection of freedom of conscience. To conclude, I would like to point out that yesterday, for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, the Ukrainian State held parliamentary hearings on matters related to the further development of the state. ethnonational politics in Ukraine. These hearings have demonstrated the ability of interested participants in a constructive, effective way to discuss the extremely important issues of the socio-humanitarian development of our state. Taking this into account, I would also like to support the proposal to hold parliamentary hearings on the development of State-faith relations in Ukraine. Taking into account the nearness of parliamentary elections and the intention of not allowing excessive politicization to discuss important sensitive issues in the humanitarian field, I would like to ask for a decision to hold such hearings no later than May of this year. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u26	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Now Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski. You have the full right to express the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u27	Dear voters, dear fellow national MPs! Yesterday, after lunch, I think one of the best hearings I remember is the consideration of our ethnopolitics, the situation, the residence, the stay, the functioning of national minorities. It was really very smart, very calm, and I think it's made one more, let alone a small, step for understanding and for unifying the Ukrainian political, I stress, the political nation. Because of this, of course, listening to the state of religious problems in Ukraine is extremely relevant, there are, what we are talking about, there are many issues: there are problems of the state, there are problems more local, there is a problem, for example, when the President receives blessings, not at least from the hands of the superintendent, the representative of the Moscow Patriarchate of Vladimir, but from the hands of Cyril himself. There's a question. There is much to be said about the fact that, in fact, the State authorities are now growing in fact with one religious religion alone, ignoring completely others. So the problems are, and the problems are very painful, but we've repeatedly spoken on the Conciliation Council, there are a few topics that we don't need to touch in the last year of our Parliament's operation, because they're already detonated in the whole society, they can trigger a completely reverse process. As a result, we feel that if this is a very important question, but the language and religious question today would not be wise to put into the heated hall of the preceding election. And he who has normal, healthy sense and a sense of certain political dangers that may be. I don't think we should. That's why the authors themselves suggested that we move to the next session, and let's see, more clearly, it'll be appropriate -- let's take a look. But today, to set a date for these hearings, I am convinced that our committee is unanimously convinced that this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u28	Thank you. Although the next session won't do anything. The next call is another one. Please sign up. Nadona, please. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Get ready for Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u29	The last speaker gave the exact correct arguments in the last words. But in that session, the political situation will not change at all, nor will it be more heated. And that's why I think it's necessary, but I have other arguments not to support this bill so that it doesn't shake things up in our country. We are all statesmen, we all represent the legislative body of the state. And so I ask everyone, without exception, not to support this bill. It's my main argument. Volodymyr Alexandrovich, you remember, we spent four years ago with exactly the same routine of parliamentary hearings, where everyone was invited without the exclusion of religious representatives, I emphasize: all without exception. There was a rather serious conversation. We've been assigned with you on a legal subject, on other issues -- we haven't done them yet. Why are we going to push these questions? Would it not be better for the committee to take a look at the recommendations that have been drawn up to make recommendations to legislation accordingly? But we do not forget at all that the Constitution says that the State is separate from the Church. The more we get into interfaith issues, the more chaos there will be, the more turmoil there will be in our society. And that's why the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, and I'm proposing to everyone without exception a very sensitive question not to bring up the parliamentary hearings. To reject it and not to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, Stretovich, the faction of our Ukraine. Next up is Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable ones are here! Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union. Today, when we are on Christmas Day, each of us must have enjoyed hearing greetings with Christ’s Christmas, visiting a tasty corner, touching the Ukrainian tradition, visiting our parents, being around friends. This is what unites us, what makes us a nation. We feel the value of those basic fastings that we have had since childhood. Today, when the previous speaker speaks of interfaith relations, it's about the state-faith relationship, about the role of the state in regulating the issues that today arise in the church environment. And these questions have matured, believe me, we haven't discussed them in this room yet. Maybe someone would say, "Well, it's a good thing they didn't talk to each other, they'll figure it out." Today, Ukraine is different from many countries abroad, where the church situation is much more complex. But look at our Polish neighbors. Why were they so successful in overcoming reforms and undergoing shock therapy? Because the spiritual basis of the Polish society, the Catholic Church, was an ally of the state in carrying out measures directly carried out by the government. Regrettably, there is no religious unity in Ukraine today, but it cannot be, in fact, because we have many denominations, many religions. But we're very thin and we're very balanced in dealing with this situation. But hearing from church representatives, listening to their problems, their wishes, the question of restitution, the return of temples, the permission of preachers, their registration, the visa regime, would also be desirable in this room. If the Ukrainian state is turning away from these problems, then the Ukrainian state is not interested. I just have a question: can't it be late when the question arises, and we, when we don't see it in the embryo and we don't contribute to the state-legislative factors, we don't solve it and the problem goes deep? I believe that such a hearing would be in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u32	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u33	It will be March month, April 15th we will have the resurrection of Christ – a great 12th festival. And so we're going to give our main Orthodox Church a gift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u34	Thank you. Kolechenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. After him, Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u35	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Vadim Koleschenko, co-chaired by the Interfractional Deputies Association for the Canonic Orthodox Church. Dear colleagues! The speaker here told us an interesting story that yesterday, for example, we had very good parliamentary hearings on ethnic policy. I have a completely different view because I have dozens of national-cultural societies that were outraged by the organization of yesterday's parliamentary hearings. The context in which they were built, order and organization of speakers, but this is the subject of another discussion. And it would seem that the question of religion is understood and evident to all, it is a spiritual topic and it is not a topic of public administration. We have already tried to organize our own money church by the State. And it was realized in the form of a schism of the Church, in which the State is to blame. And this split formed right over here. And today we're trying to re-create conflict in society, trying to get into spiritual, interfaith things with dirty hands, where we don't really belong. You believe in God, go to church and pray there. There's nothing here to bake your problems under the form of a State flag. There's obviously only one thing I can say. The faction of the Party of the Regions for its tolerant and respectful treatment of people independent of religion, language and nationality. And we have always been in line with that in our activities. Therefore, I can clearly tell you that interfaith relations in Parliament cannot be addressed. It's an attempt to get in dirty boots where we weren't invited. The theme of churches is the relationship between churches and people who want to serve God or believe in their own God. So let us not impose what people do not want to hear. We will vote against this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u36	Mikhailo Kosov, Faction BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u37	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. I'd like to go to the authors of this proposal who identified the problem as a state of state-of-the-art religious relationship. So, not religious at all, but religious. We have the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches made up of 19 religions. So we need to consider the state’s attitude toward each religion. But, Mr. Volodymyr, well, it's clearly a very deep conflict in the very question making. Well, you don't understand what the state of religious relations is going to do to us, well, on the one hand, what they're saying about Galicina, on the other hand, what they're saying about the Moscow Patriarchate, and on the other hand, what they're saying about Kyivsky. Well, colleagues, asking a question is completely inadequate. I want to say that these issues are really relevant. They are considered, for example, by the Alexander Razumkov Center each year. I'm in. The Institute of Religion, the Institute of Philosophy, is also discussing this issue. And if we were to look at the task that you set, we would have to look at it as legislators, and what in this law, which last year was 20 years old, I'm referring to this law as one of the authors that we could define there. But I'm also sure that in this room we're not going to find common ground. Let's wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u38	Thank you. Question completed. It's pretty much all one-sided that you really don't have to look at this in the session room. But that's for your own good. I'm voting on Bill 9486, the Parliamentary Hearing Order on the State of Religious Relations in Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:38:04]] For-12. The decision is not supported, so it is rejected. We're listening to the draft Parliamentary Hearings Decision on Education in the Rural Region: Crisis Trends and Ways to Overcome It. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:38:35]] For 212 Offer supported. Reported to the Science and Education Committee’s secretary, Catherine Samuelk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u39	Thank you. There is no doubt that the question is of great importance. Both the opposition and most of them raise this issue almost every day for consideration. The only thing I would like is for those who comment to know that virtually a very large number of issues related to this topic are determined by the laws of Ukraine under the Constitution of Ukraine. As for this very important subject that we are constantly discussing with you. In the village today, only 261,000 children, or 34 percent of the total, are covered by preschool education. This is because we have adopted the Law on the Obligation of Five Years of Education, and this is because of the revelation of the Crusade for the Return of Preschool Children in 2011. As far as public schools are concerned. The total rural security rate is 46.7 percent. In spite of the extremely acute situation with the lack of funds, nearly 2,000 schools have been closed down since 1990, schools, and only schools. And since 224 thousand children live outside the school’s reach and with the strengths it can be said that they can be brought to school. The question of the appropriateness of the environment for vocational education, the low status of socio-pedagogical activities, the mechanism for timely and full provision of educational institutions by teaching programs, textbooks, textbooks, equipment, the lack of modern information support and so forth. I'd like you to support me. And let's spend some time with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u40	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u41	And let's talk about this, extremely acute, but a very big state-of-the-art issue. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u42	Thank you. I think we can vote. Vote? I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Parliamentary Hearings Order on Education in the Rural Area: Crisis Trends and Ways to Overcome It. [[Registration number 9179]] Please be supportive. March 14th. [[10:41:39]] For 332 Thank you, March 14th we will hold such parliamentary hearings. Consider chapter two. There is a bill to amend some Ukrainian laws on improving legislation in the field of television and radio broadcasting. [[Registration number 8298]] Report to the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Andrew Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u43	Colleagues, good health to all. You have before you a bill prepared for consideration in the second reading and in general. The bill was introduced by the government and worked with the National Council on Television and Radio. In preparing for the second reading, the committee considered the 15 amendments that had been made, most of them being taken into account in full, in part, or in editorial terms. The committee proposes to support this bill in second reading and in general, taking into account the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u44	Thank you. We're going after the repairs. Carmazine, 1st. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Tolstenko, 2nd. No, it's not. Most of Karmazin’s changes are taken into account. No one insists, dear colleagues. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u45	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u46	The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. The Chief Legal Authority points out that the bill requires substantial work and re-reading. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of television and radio broadcasting. [[Registration number 8298]] Please vote. [[10:43:55]] For 248 Thank you. The law is passed. But once again I'm asking the profile committee, when it's ready for signature, look, maybe really, some nuances to consider to clarify once again, if that's possible. Because, look, the lawyers gave us some serious resolution. We are considering a draft of the Professional Development of Workers Act (Registration No. 9161). A nominee, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Svetlana Alexandrov’s work, reports the report. [[Applause]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u47	Thank you. This would have been the best gift if he had been voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, may we really accept in general? Oh, no? All right, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u49	October 18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u50	No respect for women.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u51	Well, unfortunately I don't like it, so we'll do it right. On October 18, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a draft law on the professional development of workers in production, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9161]] By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Social Policy and Work was entrusted with the task of finalizing the draft bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by legal entities and submitting it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. Let me remind you of the point. The aim of the bill is to regulate the system of vocational training and to confirm the qualifications of workers engaged in various fields of economic activity, as well as to improve their qualifications through vocational training, retraining and attestation. In the Committee's view, the adoption of the bill will ensure the effective functioning of the vocational training system and the validation of the qualifications of workers, which will enhance the quality and competitiveness of the labour force. The committee received 49 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, of which 31 were counted, and 18 were rejected for a number of reasons. At its meeting on December 7, 2011, the Committee decided to approve the text of a comparative table with the proposals and amendments made by the Ukrainian National Deputies and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in its second reading and in general. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a number of comments on the project. We can move on to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u52	Thank you, Svetlana Alexandrovna. Please, amendment 1a. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I would advise you at all while the amendments are being discussed, to read the conclusion of the General Legal Office. And I don't want to spoil the birthday of the nominee, but the law, unfortunately, is one that refers to the laws of butterflies that, in principle, a civilized parliament can't be adopted. I suggested that the name should be changed and written, "About the professional development of workers without interruption in production work in the central executive authorities, the all-Ukrainian trade unions and employers' organizations." And I'm explaining this because it doesn't take into account the operation of the established ones. Codex. the laws on the work of the system of ensuring the right of workers to study without interruption of work, which by its purpose corresponds to the title of the bill. [[This is chapter IV.]] In particular, article 201 of the Codex. the labour law provides for requirements for the organisation of production training. And in speaking, the draft of the Labour Code, where this was supposed to be one of the chapters, covers these particulars in the second reading. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u54	Yuri Anatolyevich, are you not insisting on your amendments? Yuri Anatoliyovich made his substantive remarks to this bill, which coincides with the observations made by the Chief Legal Authority, and they have reasons, but at the same time I would like to say that it has no bearing on the report, because it is not the bill, but the Cabinet of Ministers. She's just reporting the profile committee's opinion. It's a profile committee. Who among the other authors wants to do so. The amendments, like Yuri Anatolyovich? Nobody insists anymore? Then let's thank Yuri Anatolyevich for making his remarks on the deceiving of his amendments, and let's support the committee's proposal to adopt this law in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[10:49:24]] For 259. The law is passed. Thank you. We're looking at the Bill on Charity and Charity Organizations, registration number 6343. [[new editor]] Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u55	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, is indeed a very serious and necessary law, but there are still separate agreements, and legal considerations still need to be considered. the legal department's comments, re-examined by the Committee. It is therefore a great request: to vote in favour of moving the consideration of this bill to the beginning of February, to the next session, I think it will be a reasonable decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u56	Thank you. Yes, the committee's opinion. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u57	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Indeed, it is very important, and necessary, and is subject to capital modernization of the Bill on Charity and Charity. The committee considered it, did a comparative table, made a lot of amendments: more than two hundred. But we were waiting for the most important thing: we were waiting for the conclusion of the judiciary, because the committee members immediately had a huge problem: whether this bill would help with the most widespread abuse. It has a standard of entrepreneurship, that charities can engage in business, can be part of other companies that do business. So for corruption, we could open a completely bottomless hole. And when the response came, the legal review, it was, forgive me, but the killer's analysis of where.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u58	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u59	I'm done. where our doubts were actually supported. That's why it's necessary not to rush into this law right now, but to assign the committee, along with the authors, to work on it -- and that's the norm, that's the norm, that's the norm, that's the business, take it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u60	Thank you. No objection, dear colleagues? That is, the idea is that we're transferring the review and assigning the profile committee to take into account the findings of the General Legal Department. They wrote that the project should be rejected. We should not reject it, for the problem is really quite significant, but it should be brought into line with the legal state of things. We're moving to the next session. We're looking at the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventions and Useful Models, registration number 2750. [[about secret inventions]] Second reading. Reported the deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, Stepan Antonovich Davymuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The proposed bill has a purely technical character, and I'll remind you, and agrees with the relevant law on secret inventions and useful models with the Law on State Mystery, which was adopted later. This leads to many negative collisions that lead to the loss of a large number of secret inventions. The bill was adopted at the first reading on May 18, 2011. The second read included 13 suggestions made by Ukrainian national deputies. All proposals except one are included. Mr. Yuri Karmazin's proposal for article 23 of the Law on Internet publication of information on the issue of a patent for a secret invention has been rejected. Considering that the invention is secret, it is not appropriate to post such information on the Internet. These are additional options for getting secret data. The committee supports the bill and recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a law as a whole. As for the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority, they were prepared twice. The committee considered them, and all constructive proposals are taken into account. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u62	Thank you. Don't go, don't go. We will. All the corrections, except for the 8th, are taken into account. Yuri Anatolyovich, are you insisting? Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am grateful to the members of the committee for taking all my amendments seriously. And in this case, not counting one, when counted there, I think, seven, that's not important. And I agree with the motivation even now expressed by Mr. Davymuk. So I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u64	Thank you. The Professional Committee proposes the adoption of the law as a whole. The principal legal office has made remarks and suggests that it be transferred to the second reading again. The committee's proposal is to adopt a second reading and a whole Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of the Rights of Inventory and Useful Models. [[about secret inventions]] Registration number 2750. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:55:40]] For-53 Not supported. The bill was rejected. There's a second offer. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:56:08]] For-68 Also not supported. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. [[on the organization of international transfers]] Registration number of Bill 8029. The head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Mikhailo Ivanovich Mironenko, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u65	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications on September 21st and November 30th 2011 considered the proposals of the subjects of the right of legislative initiative to draft the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Road Transport. [[on the organization of international road transport]] [[Registration number 8029]] There were 19 amendments to the committee. The committee fully counted 11, partly three and five amendments rejected. I would like to point out that, in its conclusion to the project, the Chief Legal Authority has drawn attention to the disagreement between the project and the provisions of the Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. At the same time, these positions are agreed upon in Project 9654 on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, which was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 27.12.2011. As a result of the review, the committee proposes to adopt the bill on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u66	Let's get some repairs. Most of the amendments, including Yuri Carmazin, were taken into account, some of which were rejected by the committee. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on your amendments? Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable members of the committee, I am generally pleased with the changes that have been made to this bill, but it has improved significantly, despite the fact that much of my amendments have been rejected, largely accounted for. I think you can accept it, it'll improve the legislative field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u68	Thank you. Other adjustments are included. No one insists on voting one or the other? I can't see. Legal administration has made observations, but the committee proposes to adopt a second reading and, in general, a law amending the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. [[on the organization of international transfers]] [[Registration number 8029]] Please vote. [[10:59:04]] For 267 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some laws of Ukraine, a second reading. [[on the protection of the property rights of children]] [[Registration number 8668]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Elina Viktorovn Shishkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy considered proposals that came from entities of the right of legislative initiative in the second reading of a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 15, 2011, on the first reading. [[on the protection of the property rights of children]] The bill proposes that custody and care be given to inform the notary of the ban on the alienation of the child’s immovable property in cases foreseen in part five of article 177 of the Ukrainian Family Code. The legislative initiative also foresees that the imposition and removal of the prohibition on the alienation of immovable property is part of the authorization of only notaries. During the drafting of the bill and its preparation for second reading to the committee, there were 14 proposals and amendments to the legislative initiative, of which 9 are included, 5 are rejected. The committee also worked closely with the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, in the drafting of the bill, and some of their observations were taken into account. With this in mind, the Committee on Legal Policy recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt draft Law 8668 as a whole in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u70	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Yes, accounted for, accounted for. Rubber, 6th. Don't insist. 7th, Kowzel. Don't insist. 6th Amendment, Rubber. Declined. Oh, and Carmazine. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. There's my amendment, so there's other than Gumminuk. In the 6th amendment, I propose in article 73 that the first paragraph be left in good order, namely: "notary or official of the local self-government authority at the location of the residence, the apartment, the house, the garden house, the garage and other immovable property or the location of the land or at the place where one of the parties is located rightfully impose a ban on their alienation." This proposal is made in view of the fact that the author proposed changes in the text of the article to the words: ".or an official of the local self-government body", not taking into account that notarius is not currently present in all of Ukraine's population. Which is exactly why in article 37 of the Act of Ukraine, "On Notariat" is the basis for notarial actions that can be carried out by officials of local self-government. Secondly, they have no direct bearing on the subject of this bill, which, according to its name, deals only with the protection of children's property rights, rather than the distribution of appropriate powers between notaries and officials of local self-government. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u72	Thank you. 6 amendments to the vote shall be made. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u73	Please back up! [[11:02:33]] For-27 Not supported. No one insists on other amendments? None. Then I put a motion to the vote. Is there any more? Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin. Adam Ivanovich, I want all the national MPs to be aware that we are improving people's lives today or not. Since we're removing the words, "that's what the officials of the executive committee of the rural, rural, city council," I think it's done for the benefit of, of course, the owners of the notary offices. Therefore, respectable citizens of Ukraine, when you find it difficult to access these services, remember that this has been suggested by the majority. That most people didn't want you to feel better. And the improvement of life has already taken place, as Victor Fedorovich Janukovic said. You all feel it. Including the approach that's here right now. That's all, Adam Ivanovich, what I was going to say about my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u75	Yes. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. Some comments were made by the principal legal office. I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to adopt the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the property rights of children]] [[Registration number 8668]] Please vote. [[11:04:23]] For 283 The law is passed. We're looking at a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, the registration number of the 8214 bill. [[The organization of a serious translation in state television organizations]] [[second reading]] Reported by Victor Ukolov, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u76	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm reporting this bill from the committee and as one of the co-authors. As you know, by the New Year, the Supreme Council had supported the bill by a majority of votes in the first reading, and amendments had been made that allowed for a substantial improvement and improvement of the bill. In particular, I am grateful for the amendment that there is now an opportunity in the bill to do both a surrogate translation and a titration, which is important for people who do not hear well, who do not understand a surrogate translation. And now in any television company that falls under this bill, there is a choice, to organize work in one way or another. The committee reviewed the amendments and asked the Supreme Council to support the bill in its second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u77	Thank you. Let's get some repairs. 1st Amendment, colleague Carmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the title of the bill as follows: "To amend the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act." [[the organization of surrogate translation in national broadcasting organizations]] The drafters of the bill propose that only national television broadcasters be obliged to broadcast the news. I believe that such a requirement should extend to other radio organizations, i.e. private ones, that are part of the structure of national television and radio. Therefore, I propose to make appropriate changes to both the title of the bill and other proposed articles. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u79	Thank you. Vote 1 amendment, Carmazina. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:07:00]] For-21 Not supported. A good result, Roman Mikhailovich says. Yes, a series of amendments by Suškević, but they are rejected because they do not meet the requirements of article 116 of the Rules. Amendment 12, Carmazine, is equivalent. Please, but we have practically voted on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank all those who have supported, who have come to realize that a serious translation is not just to be distributed to public organizations. As for 43 articles, I would like to make this part of the article. "Teleradio organizations are obliged to carry out information telephony with a surrogate translation in a part that is not less than one fifth of the programmes of daytime television. In addition to programs that are not possible to perform a serious translation. Broadcasting on television and news is carried out by teletranslating organizations with a surrogate order. ” It is based on the fact that this publication will oblige the teleorganizations of all forms of property, without exception: public, municipal, private, and informational telephony with serious translation. These provisions are in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and will ensure constitutional rights. [[of March 6, 2010]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u81	The committee suggests rejecting this amendment for the reason that the first reading in the Supreme Council made a compromise on state television as a first step. Maybe the next bill will be distributed to private companies, but let's do at least for the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u82	Although Yuri Anatolyevich is absolutely right. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The 12 amendments shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u83	Please support, this is a principle amendment! [[11:09:12]] For-32 Not supported. Carmazine, 16th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not simply refer to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We still have the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine: the third, the ninth, the twenty - third. And finally, there can be no discrimination in the form of property that we make selective for this law. And that's why I wrote here in the 16th amendment: in paragraph 2 of the second paragraph, write: in article 49, the words "including with a serious translation" should be replaced by the words "with a mandatory serious translation of such messages." We violate the rights of persons with disabilities around where possible and in this case also. This must be done, respected members of the committee. I don't understand why we think the state can be strained, and the owners don't need to, because they're all oligarchs, and we're afraid to bother them. We have a strange situation and approach. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u85	16 the amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:10:43]] For-24 Not supported. And amendment 18, Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the amendment that we have always adopted in a few years, since we are convinced that this is the right thing, it refers to what paragraph 1 of Chapter II of the Final Provisions reads: "This law takes effect from the day of its publication." Because the first reading said, "from the day it was published." The right column is written in the same way that I suggested, but somehow the conclusion is that the amendment is rejected. Notice, Adam Ivanovich! So I ask you, for the protocol, or write that Carmazin's amendment is counted, or delete the right part, bring it to the left, but define in principle. I'm still reading all the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u87	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. There's actually been some mistake, because on the one hand, it's written that's rejected, and we're voting for the right part, for the right column, and so it's included in the Karmazin edition. So let's support Karmazin's proposal, it's perfectly legal. Please vote. [[11:12:29]] For 298 We've been through all the repairs. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. [[Organization of Surdotranslation in State Broadcasting Organisations]] [[Registration number 8214]] Please vote. [[11:13:03]] For 312 The law is passed. Victor Alexanderovich, don't go far. We are considering a draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the protection of the population and information space against negative impacts]] [[Bill 8371 registration number]] Reported to the head of the committee on freedom of speech and information, Uklov Viktor Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the committee considered this bill in the second reading procedure, counted part of the amendments, did not count part. You know that in the first reading this was supported by the majority of the Supreme Council, and we urge you to support it in the second reading. The only observation that existed in principle is whether or not the bill restricts freedom of speech. On the committee, we considered and decided that there was no limit, for it applied exclusively to advertising that was banned, witch doctors, fortune tellers, and all those listed there, as well as to the practice of these live sessions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u89	Thank you. I'm going after the repairs. Five, two o'clock. Don't insist. Third. Carmagine, do you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin. The 3rd amendment is a technical amendment, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u91	Okay. Thank you. Garbage, 4th. Don't insist. Five, seven. No, it's not. Turn, 6th. Carmazine, 8th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u92	It's also technical. Yuri Carmazin. the amendment. I don't insist on her.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u93	So you don't insist on your amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u94	No, no. There's more.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u95	What's that? 11th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u96	Yes. Yuri Carmazin. 11th. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I suggested such a thing. In the first paragraph of section I, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, in article 6, proposed by the author, paragraph 8, of Part 2 should read as follows: ".translations of programs or their videos of stories involving the provision of occult services by witch doctors, sorcerers, shamans, magicians, psychics, sorcerers, spiritists, astrologers, sorcerers, fortune tellers and others who declare themselves capable of predicting fate, influencing people, the spiritual world, property, the environment through the use of supernatural abilities or power." It's not taken into account and rejected in this way, and I think it should be written that way because the view of our radio space shows that this is exactly what's happening in these forms. That's why I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u97	Karmazin's 13th amendment is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:16:24]] For-13. The 13th amendment received 13 votes. Who else insists? The rest, Yuri Anatolyovich, are either yours, or partially counted, that is, we can vote. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the protection of the population and information space against negative impacts]] Registration number 8371. Please vote. [[11:17:10]] For the 320. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u98	Thanks, guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u99	We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation against trafficking in human beings, registration number 8702. [[second reading]] Reported to the Secretary of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement examined, on second reading, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Combating Trafficking in Persons, registration No. 8702. The bill proposes to establish the licensing of activities related to the congregation and distribution, including on the global Internet, of information on individuals for the purpose of getting to know them. Establish administrative responsibility for conducting activities related to the congregation and/or the dissemination of information on natural persons for the purpose of getting to know them without obtaining a licence. The draft was adopted in the first reading on the basis of October 18, 2011. At the same time, on September 20, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Anti-Trafficking Act, No. 3739, which took effect on October 15, 2011. The law lays down new principles for countering trafficking in persons, the basic orientations of public policy and the principles of international cooperation in this area, the authorization of executive authorities, the order of status of persons affected by human trafficking, and the order of assistance to such persons. In particular, a national mechanism is being developed for the interaction of entities involved in countering trafficking in human beings. In this regard, the committee suggested that the decision to adopt Bill No. 8702 be revoked with a view to allowing the new system of antitrafficking bodies to determine whether appropriate legislative changes should be made. However, the Supreme Council did not support the committee’s proposal and commissioned the committee to prepare the draft for the second reading. There were nine proposals for the project, all of them rejected. In fact, an editorial is proposed as a basis for the first reading, since the committee does not see the possibility of working on this option. The Chief Legal Authority has made good comments and proposes that the bill be rejected. Although members of the committee now feel that the bill should be rejected, the committee has nevertheless proposed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u101	Thank you. Corrections. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, please first.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! Indeed, this bill will not bring much joy to society and to society. So I share the opinion of the General Legal Office that the bill was subject to rejection. At the same time, in view of the fact that the committee has decided to be one, it is better to improve what is bad. And I suggest in the title "anti-trafficking" that we replace the words "implementation of licensing from mediation in acquaintances or family creation." Because the title of the bill does not correspond to the subject matter of its regulation, because, according to the content of the bill, it only applies by- and by-productively to the opposition to human trafficking, and its position directly relates to the introduction of a new type of business license and the responsibility for violating the requirements for licensing such an activity. Please support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u103	Amendment 1 of Carmazine is voting. Please be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u104	Please back up! [[11:21:39]] For-25 Not supported. Next. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have warned that the whole law has problems, but we can improve it. If he's eventually accepted, I don't think he'll be accepted. In the Law on the Licensing of Certain Economic Activities, in article 9, paragraph 46 of the third sentence, the following wording reads: “International Mediation in Meetings or Family Creation”. I am introducing these changes to clarify the position of the bill, since the authors are proposing to introduce licensing for activities related to the congregation and distribution, including the global Internet, of information on individuals for the purpose of getting to know them. For example, the media are involved in this activity. However, the Explanatory Note does not refer to the licensing of a given activity as such but to the licensing of activities by only marriage agencies and acquaintance offices. So please support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u106	2 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:23:05]] For-19 Not supported. Carmazine, 5th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin. 5 The amendment relates to amendments to the Administrative Code, where it was proposed to include a new Article 164 with a badge 15. It's called "Implementing activities related to the congregation and disseminating information about individuals for the purpose of getting to know them without getting a license." So you can get a license. It also violates the licensing conditions for such activities. I propose my changes in relation to the fact that in the Code of Administering, where we emphasize every day, every day of the session, we make a supplement, which already contains article 164: "The violation of the order of the establishment of the business", which provides for responsibility for the conduct of the business without obtaining licences for the conduct of a particular type of economic activity. As a result, I ask you to support my amendment and to exclude this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u108	5 the amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:24:37]] For-29 Not supported. Amendment 8. Yuri Anatolyovich, your last.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to say that 164 articles are foreseen. Where else do you include the new one? And so I suggested in article 222 that I leave the first part of the original edition. That is, to exclude the text proposed by the author of the wording "164-15." The change is made just to prevent the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, which the government has pledged to introduce. But he's not bringing a new one, and the committee doesn't want to work on it either. Well, then we'll have to work on our own. I can't work for Azarov, instead of Chechtov, instead of everyone! Therefore, honourable national MPs, such a law, if it is accepted in such an order, will not benefit society, only damage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u110	8 amendments shall be put to the vote. We've been through all the repairs. Please, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u111	Dear national deputies, for the transcript. The point is, in the first reading, articles 164-15 were adopted, but such an article is already in this codex. In this regard, according to standard-setting techniques, the committee recorded part one of article 222, after heading 164-4, to be completed with 164-17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we've discussed all the amendments. I am voting on the committee's proposal, although the Chief Legal Authority is proposing to reject the bill on the adoption of this law: to amend some of Ukraine's legislation against trafficking in human beings. [[Registration number 8702]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:27:00]] For-27 The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u113	Dear National Deputies! We held a meeting of the Conciliation Council. The initiators of the break and the meeting of the Conciliation Board have a statement to make. Andrew School will make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u114	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear TV sets and radio audiences! I want to make a statement from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. The faction of Yulia Timoshenko states: "The government has moved to the last point of its plan to fight the opposition -- the physical destruction of its leader, Yulia Timoshenko. All the famous events that took place in the duck colony on the night of January 6th to January 7th: after the use of unknown drugs, it was said that the cold given to Julia Tymoshenko by the colony’s medical staff had lost consciousness. For 20 minutes, no one entered the cell where it was kept. And that's because she's being watched 24 hours ago, and her cellmate's been crying out for help all this time. The confused explanations of the MoH representative and the penitentiary system manager they gave to the people's deputies only confirmed our most feared suspicions: the same sadistic experiments that were carried out in the Cachavian colony over Julia Timoshenko were carried out in the fascist concentration camps. Julia Timoshenko’s life was in real danger. The government does nothing to remedy the situation, conduct comprehensive examinations, and provide the necessary medical assistance to Julia Timoshenko. On the contrary, authorities fear and do everything they can to hide the truth from Ukrainian society and the world community. This is the reason why so - called tests are conducted in a closed mode with a narrow circle of persons, and their results are carefully hidden. In view of this, the Timoshenko- "Fatherland" faction of "The Yulia Block" requires: First. Immediately set up a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council for an objective, comprehensive and impartial study of all the facts of the incident with Julia Timoshenko in the Cachavian colony on the night of January 6th to 7. Only after getting all the necessary materials, including the video, by talking to all the medics who tested Julia Timoshenko, will we be able to establish the truth and stop any speculation about this. The other one. We demand that Canada’s medics be given the opportunity to conduct a full, comprehensive, and major independent health examination of Julia Timoshenko. Only if we meet our requirements: create TSCs, enable Canadian medics to conduct a comprehensive survey of Yulia Timoshenko -- we can be sure that the authorities will not physically eliminate their main political opponent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on this and other issues at the Conciliation Council. Yes, a draft regulation on the creation of the TSC was registered today and for that reason. It is suggested that I, in particular, adjust the draft of this document so that it does not come to any conclusion. The initiators agreed on the need for appropriate clarifications and additions to the draft decision. We agreed that it would be reregistered and handed over to the leaders of the MP factions and groups to determine their participation in the committee of nine. Offered proportionally: 3 representatives from the faction of the Party of Regions, 2 from the BUIT and one from all other factions, i.e. 9 people. If agreement is found, then we will be able to submit a corresponding project to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If there is no such compromise, then the rule of the Rules will apply: within five days the factions must declare their participation or non-participation in this commission. I have proposed, and I propose, and now, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that we calmly, without training each other, seek and find compromise. And we understood that we would still have to work as a minimum until October of the month and that we would have different events where we should demonstrate understanding and opportunity and the ability to find a common position that would suit our common interests and bring comfort to Ukrainian society. That's all I can tell you right now. If compromises are found -- I think factions should be consulting each other now -- then we can go back to that question, I mean at the level of the Conciliation Council. If you don't, we'll continue to have a dialogue. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending article 328 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine is under review. [[on the right to a cassation charge]] The reporter is the deputy head of the Justice Committee, Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, this is the committee's decision to reject the bill, and I'll tell you why. Our co-authors: Kaskov, Knyazev and Miroshnichenko, passed this bill. It's as if he's pursuing normal justice purposes, that is, the referee judge had no right, according to the logic of the authors, to refuse to accept a cassation complaint and send it back. And the colleagues offered to rule it out. But there is international practice, there is the conclusion of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the conclusion of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, that the principle of limitation to justice, is based on the fact that sometimes there was a processual terrorism, that is, the delaying of the case, the filing of the case, it created such conditions that the defendant, the defendant, had to just write and file to delay the time. That's why our committee has decided according to the practice of the European Court of Justice, and I'll give you an example of Jofer de la Pradel v. France, which says that a more effective review of court decisions is being carried out and a balance between private and public interests is being ensured and the correctness of remedying judicial errors is guaranteed. [[of December 16, 1992]] That is, everyone is guaranteed the right to a fair and timely hearing of his complaint. But stretching is unacceptable. And I would also like to say that there's nothing tragic, that we're rejecting this bill because a new Criminal Procedure Code is being developed. And if the authors are able to do that, they can submit these changes to the existing Criminal Procedure Code or to a project that will be considered in the Hall. Therefore, by decision of our committee's unanimous decision, we propose to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! Thank you. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 328 of the Civil Procedure Code. [[on the right to a cassation charge]] [[Registration number 5371/p-1]] Please vote. [[11:36:17]] For 266 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the establishment of a State Fund for Regional Development is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9363]] The rapporteur is Valérie Baranov, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u118	Now let the committee head say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u119	There are tables.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u120	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, the table is distributed to all, so the second reading proposes a comparative table prepared by the Committee on Budget Affairs. In accordance with the Rules, the committee received 32 proposals from the people's deputies for a bill, followed by 26 and rejected 6. First of all, in a second reading, the bills have changed somewhat in terms of the formation and distribution of funds from the State Regional Development Fund. In particular, it is proposed that the amount of the fund should be at least 1 per cent of the projected revenue of the State Budget project for the corresponding budget period. Responsibilities of local authorities to make proposals for a programme of measures that can be implemented at the expense of the fund. Mine-economy in competition principles should be assessed and selected within the indicative projection of the Fund's expenditure to meet the criteria for its distribution between regions: 70 per cent of the cost, according to the population population in the region concerned, 30 per cent of the cost, taking into account the socio-economic development of the region according to the gross regional product per person. As a result of this selection of proposals for the allocation of funds of the Fund, the Office of Ministers is submitted with a list of relevant programs and actions. At the same time, bearing in mind the request of the Head of the Supreme Council to unite and make individual amendments to the same laws as one in order to shorten parliamentary time for their preparation and consideration, we have included in the comparative table a proposal to settle other issues of amending the Code of Budgets. First of all, the issues that are proposed to be brought into line in government bills to amend the Budget Code. [[Number 9445 and number 9579]] Next. To carry out the tasks of the Economic Reform Programme and the implementation of the National Plan of Action for its implementation, as well as to regulate the provisions that are consistently applied in the budgetary process and are approved annually by the State Budget Act, it is proposed in the Budget Code to further address such issues, such as the optimization of the special fund, the financial provision of public authorities when they are created, the treasury service of public, social and pension insurance funds, the redistribution of loans from budgets, the clarification of the basic principles of granting subsidies and the allocation of subsidies for the implementation of investment programmes and others. In the light of the above, the title of the bill is proposed to be worded as follows: "To amend the Budget Code and some other legislative acts." Thus, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u121	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u122	The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a second-reading bill and generally as a law in accordance with the proposed final drafting of the bill in the comparative table, as well as in the drafting of the law, along with the legal administration, to take into account and deal with observations No. 5 of the Legal Administration, you have, regarding the harmonization of changes to the Law on the Legal Regime of Property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[No. 9363]] Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u123	Let's do some repairs. 10 revisions, Ganushkak. Overruled. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u124	Well, it's one of the most serious amendments, not the 10th, but the 7th, it's the volume. So if you look at what Minfin is offering right now, that's 1 percent. The first reading offered a total of 2.5 of the general fund's expenditure is 7.5 billion. What's now being proposed is 3 billion. Well, it's going to be hard to explain to us in regions that 3 billion is better than 7.5 billion. If it goes, really, I can agree that the bond goes not to the third basket, but to the general fund's income, but then you have to put not one percent, but you have to put two percent in order to have at least six billion. To compare what it is. Now, for this year, all socio-economic development projects are being proposed -- that's 11 billion. There's only about a billion people on Crimea. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u125	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I'd be delighted if you and I could do more than 2.5, but 4.8, or 10, or 15. And that would be very good. But this 1 percent is not a number that will be recorded in the budget, and this is a calculation rate that will be counted, but when we approve the budget, we have an opportunity with you for the next year and one, and two, and four. And the 1 percent figure today is more than planned for 2012. So we took some of it into account and recorded it. I'd love to, but unfortunately we won't be able to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u127	The goal of sowing is amendment number 7, Yuri Hanuschak, to be taken fully into account. The committee considered it in part. [[11:42:58]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 9th Amendment. Or 10 amendments, Gnawstyka. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u128	9th Amendment. Why do I propose to delete the "agreement"? Because a deal is a type of contract. I mean, look, there's real programs on the list, real directions. The agreement is a form of drafting these documents. So this is just the other stuff, this isn't from that series, so it's suggested that we rule it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u129	Puts to the vote the 9th amendment. [[11:43:49]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 10 revisions, Ganushkak. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u130	The tenth is exactly what it was, but I'd like it to end up as long as you think about voting for 2 percent. And think about it, it'll be over, think about it. So far, I know she's not gonna make it, so she's taking off. The tenth, the tenth, it's coming off.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u131	So what? Are we voting on the 10th amendment? No, it's not. Let's move on. Yuri. Yes, yes, Ganushtstak is accounted for. Yuri Carmazin, 15th Amendment
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, first of all, allow you, in accordance with the Rules, to express your protest and to make a personal remark that only today, during the plenary session, is given to this project and, secondly, a comparative table. This should not be done under such serious laws as the amendments to the Budget Code, nor should such an organization of work. I'm ready to consider my amendments, they're all with me. I propose a third paragraph that reads as follows: "30 per cent of the funds are distributed between the local budgets of the regions, where WFP per person is significantly below the national average and where, over the past three years, there has been a sharp reduction in jobs or vital sectors of the economy, which has led to a significant increase in unemployment problems, to the implementation of priority investment projects that contribute to solving their problems." I'm asking you to continue my term, I had to spend time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u133	Please complete the formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u134	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I make this proposal in view of the insufficiently well-founded proposal for the allocation of these percentages between the relevant local budgets for the implementation of priority investment projects that help solve the problems of individual administrative units, taking into account the level of their socio-economic development. It is not clear, then, which local budgets should be allocated. Moreover, the criteria and level of socio-economic development of the administrative and territorial units that are proposed to be applied do not seem clear enough for its practical use and for the purpose of avoiding it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u135	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, the protest is accepted, the remark is no. Please take the position of the 15th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u136	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich and colleagues, the committee was very keen to discuss this proposal in the working group before the meeting, and we came to the conclusion that 70 per cent of the funds needed to be distributed by population in order to have some justice, and that other money was needed for the competition, because we have this situation, for example, that the environmental money in some areas, giving documents and projects, was given 300 million, and the other is zero. Because even projects have not been prepared or participated at all in such an important state matter. Therefore, we need to support those who want to work rather than just sit around and wait for him to be given because he has a very bad situation. And he's not doing anything to change it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u137	It's the 15th vote, Yuri Carmazin. [[11:47:48]] For-34 Correction not supported. 14th Amendment, Ganushkak. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u138	Gentlemen, look, the third position: if we include the city of Kiev, the area plays a huge role, not just the population, because there are poorly populated areas. But this point is basically the cost of infrastructure. The bigger the territory, the more cost. It is therefore proposed that the area be taken into account in calculating this amount, not just the population. So what we're talking about is that this third position is equal to the population ratio and the area to be taken into account. In this case, we're going to have a certain parity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u139	Thank you. 14 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[11:48:52]] For-48 The amendment is not accepted. In the full range, as proposed by Yuri Hanustak. 16 amendment, Panushka, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u140	What are you talking about? This shift of 20 by 30 is not easy. The point is, the first part is the total when the overall project is presented. The second part is not depressing territories. Once and for all, these are projects that are specialized to overcome this depression. They're hard enough to do. And that's why it's a little bit smaller. Because first of all, the larger volume is going to go to the first part. So we're still going to go back to the fact. Because it's not that easy to get the number of projects to get through all 30 percent. These projects have to give added value. These are tough projects. So it's suggested that the proportions change a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u141	Amendment 16 shall be put to the vote. [[11:50:10]] For-25 Correction not accepted. 17th Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that you did not support the wise amendments made by the national deputy of Hanushtak. And now I'm going to propose to you the next amendment, this is Amendment 17. I propose part four in this paper: "The costs of international financial institutions, other financial credit institutions that are available for regional development are included in the State Regional Development Fund." This proposal is based on what is proposed, I quote: "the costs of international financial institutions and other financial credit institutions are included in the State Regional Development Fund in the order laid down in the State Budget Act of Ukraine.", the content of this position should include all the stated types of funds without exception, no matter what their objective is: to develop regions or to resolve issues of a public nature, which is unfounded. Moreover, it is not clear how to count these funds in the State Regional Development Fund, since this is the case with valid legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u143	17 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[11:51:42]] For-26 Correction not accepted. 18th Amendment. Pancake, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u144	Gentlemen, this is about the fact that it can't be just the Cabinet of Ministers, we have some positions to determine by law as well. I think that's the introduction of these positions. Thus, it is generally stated, in a manner defined by legislation, not by the Cabinet of Ministers, as in the final edition. I think it's a broader thing. And anyway, we're going to go back to this position when we're going to have to distribute these depressed areas, and we're going to figure out what areas right now. But the way between them is still required by law, for that is what article 19 of the Constitution requires. So I'm asking you not to push us into a corner, but to write, "in a manner defined by law."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u145	Amendment 18 shall be put to the vote. [[11:52:57]] For-16 Correction not supported. 19 Amendments. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the negative conclusion of the General Legal Department that this bill needs to be finalized. I would like to draw your attention to what I suggested in part five after the word "Ukraine" to complement with the words "and are controlled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." That's how the State Regional Development Fund funds are used. What's going on? The Cabinet of Ministers himself today accepted this budget, gave it to you, you only voted. You're not even a screwdriver today, you're not a poodle -- you're just a voting mechanism. That's it! Look at the budget. Mr. Head of the Budget Committee, I don't know if you feel like you're head of the Budget Committee. I think our heads are sitting there, and there's just buttons. That's why I'm proposing to leave the Supreme Council alone. Nevertheless, there will be a united opposition, yet the government will change its composition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u147	Yes, the vote is amended by 19, Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u148	Please be supportive. [[11:54:31]] For-25 The decision is not taken. This is 20 and 21 included in part. Do you mind? Microphone, please, Ganushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u149	Gentlemen, look what the point is. We have to tell the regions the approximate quotas within which they can submit projects. And consider one more thing: We have long - term planning in the Budget Code. This is exactly the ability, really, to actually start this long-term planning. Therefore, these quotas should also be given two years in advance. I mean, I don't care when. That's the best thing about the budget declaration. But it has to be done much sooner than May 1, which is then fixed. It should be done in January. So it has to be brought to the regions, that's how much. So I'm asking you to consider this amendment. You can then redecorate it, but it's either January, or February has to be proven, and it's also going to be the size of this fund for the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u150	Amendment 20 shall be put to the vote to be taken fully into account. The committee counted in part. [[11:55:54]] For-16 The decision is not supported. The decision is not taken. 21 revisions. Ganushka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u151	Since this is the last amendment, you might say so. Well, of course, I'm very grateful for the plagiarism, because the vast majority of the things that were in my alternative project are taken into account, and thank you for that. Still, you will have to resolve the matter in detail, and you will still have to make changes to this law. Well, unfortunately, it turns out I know a little bit more than Kabmin in this area. That's why I'm making these amendments. It's clear about this situation, after this amendment. Note paragraph 7, which is my amendment, that the list of draft budgetary allocations for the following year and the schedules for the next two budget periods for these projects are approved by the Supplement to the State Budget Act for the following year in the form of State budget subsidies to local budgets. This is the only position I'm asking you to take into account right now, because this is the form that we're putting in the budget of this particular fund. It's a form. These are the necessary things. We're still going to do these things. It's not. I'm asking you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u152	21 amendments to the vote, Yuri Hanushka. [[11:57:24]] For-22. No correction supported. Yes, all other adjustments are included. To what? By 25? Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, although you don't accept the remark, I want to tell you that there is still a right to amend the amendments and so on. And it would be implemented to the fullest extent into the budget code, which has now become a deadlock by this majority. I'm going to see how you're going to stand up for some rights if that's the Prime Minister who's greeting the New Year, not the Year, and he's not accepting deputies who commit criminal crimes, he's violating the Status Act, and I'm going to see how you do when you're not talking to them at all, as your President does today. Therefore, the changes that are now 25, they all go beyond article 116. They make sense. But they go beyond 116. And it's not just the 25th. I don't want to torture them all right now and tell you to remind them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u154	Is that correct for confirmation? Dear colleagues, please note that Amendment 25 is taken into account by the Committee, but it must be put to the vote for confirmation at the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[11:59:17]] For 255 Decision taken. Ganushka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u155	Gentlemen, as I asked you, let's go back to quantity. Because it turns out our faction is much more regional than the faction of "Regions." Well, you can't explain why 3 billion is better than 7 and a half billion. I suggest you put the number "2" to the vote again instead of the number "1", i.e. the amount of this fund is 2 percent. Well, think logically, because, in fact, 3 billion is nothing to realize. There are 16 billion projects in the Minregionbud, and they're all badly needed. We're just betting on 11 billion this year. This is the ability in the formula, in the normal system, to run regional development in a normal way. Well, think logically, well, you put another 2 percent instead of one. That's the only thing we're going to do, protocolly, is an article about the fund, the amount of the fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u156	Please, Valery Alexiyovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u157	I've already said that we'd be happy to write both 3 and 4, but we realize that today it's very difficult to figure out what the budget is going to be for next year. So this is the number 1 for the calculation of the draft budget. And if we count one, and then we look at both you and the government, we'll see what we can do 2 is our right, and we'll do it. But that's the minimum we're betting with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, who would like to return to the amendment of Yuri Hanuschak, please determine by vote. [[12:01:24]] For-93 The offer is not supported. Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u159	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u160	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! That's how we do it. So one can violate article 116 of the Rules is normal. One can do anything you produce, Prime Minister, and that they are not sitting, but Timoshenko is sitting. Sit down with Timoshenko Azarova – I'll take off all my corrections for the whole year! But, Your Honor, it's not a piece of legislation! Look, the 28th you count, look at the right-hand side. Sir, Michael, I'm addressing you, Mr. Chechetov. You write: in part three, the word "implemented" is replaced by the words "implemented in order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account tasks and actions." This is the right column, you write it that way. Is that the quality of your paperwork?Oh, my God! Is that the law?Oh, my God! That's not even how they prepare at the church! In the Constitutional Court and that's by call, but "What can I do for you? " ask. And you didn't ask, "What can I do for you?And you write it down, you put it in the right column. Do it editorially. Or take it now and confirm it again. Well, do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u161	Honorable National Deputies, Amendment 28 taken into account by the Committee. The author’s request is for her to vote for her approval. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u162	() [[Unheard]] And look at the paper!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u163	Well, let's see, they're specialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u164	Vladimir Mikhailovich, take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u165	I've read it. [[12:03:10]] For 253 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budget for the Establishment of a State Fund for Regional Development. [[Registration number 9363]] Please vote. [[12:03:45]] For 263 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a recess of up to 12 hours for 35 minutes. After the break, we will discuss with you the question of the election and release of judges. Please be in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will continue our work. And please invite more deputies to the session room. Announcing the question of the election and release of judges. Reporters: Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Igor Leonovich Samsin, as well as Head of the High Council of Justice, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Kolesnichenko. I invite Igor Leonovich to report. Dear colleagues, we have another matter of swearing. Where are the materials? So let's start now, dear fellows. Well, please, Your Honor, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine must take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u167	I, Philippchuk Peter Philipovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to welcome the head of the Supreme Court with the election and the oath of a member of the High Council of Justice. [[Applause]] I invite the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Igor Leonovich Samsin to report. Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u169	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! First of all, let us welcome, on behalf of the High Qualifying Commission, the New Year’s Eve, the festivals, the longing for sound health, happiness, joy, good. [[Applause]] According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Act, as well as a review of the application of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of ownership of public authorities and bodies of local self-government regarding the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine as a state during the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. According to paragraph 27 of Part One, article 85 of Part One, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 76 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for judges on an indefinite basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, draft Decree 9678, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u171	Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of Volin district of Bovchaluk Zorian Arkadyevna; The Feodosian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Hojainov Oksana Vasilovna; The Jamaican District Court of the Lubinetsk-Onil district Alla Grigorovna; The Baglia District Court of Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska District Funeral of Tetjan Jurijovna; The Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye District of Prin Inna Pavlovna; The Bilocerk Regional Court of the Kyiv district of Haponenka Anatolia Petrovich; The Yellow District Court of Luhansk Stepina Olen Sergiyevna; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Starikow Aleksija Aleksandrovitch; The Suvorov district court of Odessa Shepetko Ivan Grigorovich; The Karlovy Vary District Court of Poltava Region, Mironec Olen Kostinenovna; The Kotelev District Court of Poltava District of Tsvetajl Pavel Viktorovich; Krasnopolska District Court of Suma District Kosar Aleutina Ivanovna; The Hussetin district court of Ternopil district of Cwintar Tetjana Mikolayevna; The Coropian District Court of Chernigiv County, Grusz Alexander Petrovich; The Ripkin District Court of the Chernig district of Pavlenko Olga Vladislavna; The right-wing district court of Kyiv Kločko Innu Vasilovna; Obolon district court of Kyiv Devatka Vladislav Volodymirovich; Kješer's District Court of Kyiv Kozlova Ruslan Yuriovich; Delilian District Court of Kiev Nozdrakova Stanislava Viktorovich; The Solomonian District Court of Kiev, Ukraine, Vitalia Vasilovich; Zacarpathian District Administrative Court Seshen Aleksi Mikolayovich. Judge Nozdrakov Stanislav Viktorovich and Ukrainian Vitaly Vasilovich did not attend today’s plenary meeting in connection with their annual vacation, as reported by the Higher Qualifications Commission. I think they've informed the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Nostryakov is located outside the city of Kiev and the Ukrainian is outside the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, indeed, are a letter from the Solomonese District Court of Kiev at the signing of the head of the district court of Kiev Coast, requesting that the question of the election of Judge Vitali Vasilovic of Ukraine be postponed in connection with his stay on scheduled leave. But it's up to the Supreme Council to judge. If there are no questions, what is the problem? Please, Ivan Vernidubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u173	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Just to a judge who is not present today, the judge of the Podil District Court of Nozdrakov Stanislav Viktorovich has been warned, and I would ask for a vote on him to be held in his presence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, let us do as the chairman of the High Qualifying Commission suggests. We'll remove these two names from the list and the rest. For everyone else, I'm sorry, I vote. No objections? I'm voting on the proposal for a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges by removing the names of Nozdrakov Stanislav and Ukrainian Vitaly. [[Registration number 9678]] Please vote. [[12:42:33]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. Now Project Decision, please. [[Registration number 9678-1]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u175	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Lower Highland District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Czerneck Valerius; The Lutsky District Court of Volin County, Alexyuk Andrija Volodymirovich; Dimitrov City Court of the Donetsk Region of Petunin Igor Vladislavovich; Lenin District Court of Donetsk Daniluk Olga Stanislavna The Meccatov City Court of the Zakarpat district of Margitić Oksana Ivanovna; Shevchenkov District Court of Zaporozhye, Hončar Marina Sergiyevna; The Rokitni district court of the district of Fech Tamila Stepanovna; The Deaf District Court of the Suman district of Morgun, Alexia Viacheslavovich; The French District Court of Kharkiv Tarasov Irina Valerievna; The City District Court of Cherka district of Sinic Ludmila Pavlovna; The Mankow district court of the Cherka district of Kostenko Andrija Ivanovich; Seminal District Court of Czernigiv Region Gnipa Alexandr Ivanovich; The New Zealand District Court of Chernigova Derča Aleksandr Grigorovitch; The District Administrative Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Anastasia Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u176	Dear colleagues. Please, Vladimir Oilynik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I propose that we postpone consideration of the issue of the indefinite election of the judge of the City District Court of Czerka district of Sinica Ludmila Pavlovna. There have been a number of complaints in my name, in addition to the manufacturing feature: "There have been cases of gross violations of procedural legislation in the course of the proceedings. Yes, during his stay in the advisory room to rule on the criminal case, Judge Sinic spent the day reviewing other categories of cases. There was also a case where one decision was declared at the end of the trial, and the text of the document was quite different, questioning the judicial decisions that had gained legal force. There have been cases of unjustified delay in criminal and civil proceedings. In addition, the conduct of Judge Sinic was discussed at a meeting of the Council of Judges of the Cherka district, the District Qualifications Commission of Judges, and the High Qualifications Commission of Judges." I suggest we go back again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u178	Thank you. Igor Leonovich, please take the position of the High Qualifying Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u179	Position: If there are new complaints that speak of what a national MP has mentioned, we can review them, but, at the same time, they can be reviewed after the vote. The point is that any complaint takes some time, a set time. Therefore, the Higher Qualifications Commission, based on the materials we had, came to the conclusion that it was recommending a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u180	So let's do it this way, ladies and gentlemen, let's do it so that we don't do a bad thing here: we're going to remove the name of the Son of Lyudmila Pauline from the draft decree, we're going to vote on all the other candidates, and then we're going to go back to the discussion on this issue. If the Supreme Council has the potential to address this issue, then the potential will be to vote for the appointment, and the decision will be positive. If there's no such potential, we're going to test it by voting, then we're going to have to postpone it until the next session. Is there no objection? That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft Decree, registration number 9678-1, on the election of judges by removing from the draft order the name Sinica Ludmila Pavlovna. Please vote. [[12:47:24]] For 288 Decision taken. Yes, dear fellows. Is there a Ludmila Pavlovna Sonic? To the microphone. Please, for the claims presented to you in the speech of the national deputy of Olivenic, what can you say? May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, don't hear anything!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u181	The characteristics that were presented before my recommendation to the Higher Qualifications Commission was submitted. None of these claims were confirmed at the time, and there was no room. Everything was checked.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u182	Understandable explanation for all? Dear colleagues, let's do this: we're going to test it by voting. Who's to consider now the question of the decision to elect the Sonny Ludmila Pavlovna as Judge of the City District Court of Cherkas? Please vote. [[12:48:48]] For-50 The decision is not taken. So the request to Igor Leonovich Samsin, the head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges, and to our profile committee to re-examine the materials that are there, and at the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- it will be early in February -- to come back to the consideration of this issue. Did you accept that offer? Thank you. Now draft Decree 9678-2. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u183	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Red Guard District Court of Dnipropetrovska Tokar Natalija Volodymyrna; Bologna District Court of Zitomir Galacevic Oksana Mikolayevna; The Donetsk City Court of Mikolaiiv, Vuiv Oleg Vasilovich; The Demidiv District Court of the Lobodin district of Anatolia Sergiyovich; The business court of the Plains region of Kraybuch Olen Hennadian.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is being voted on. [[Registration number 9678-2]] Please vote. [[12:50:17]] For 274 Decision taken. Now, draft regulation 9678-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u185	The judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis are as follows: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine of the Funeral of Vladimir Yakovlewich; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Goreiko Maria Dmitrovna, Kovaljak Jaroslav Juriovich; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Gornik Tetjana Anatoliyevna, Grishchuk Vladimir Alexandrovich; Donetsk's administrative appeal court, Bishov Maksim Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 9678-3]] Please vote. [[12:51:18]] For 278 Decision taken. Project Decisions. [[Registration number 9678-4]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u187	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Sofia District Court of Dnipropetrovsk, Oles Volodymyrovna Romanov District Court of Zitomir district of Babic Sergey Vasilovich Skuri district court of Kyiv district Kločka Volodymyr Mikolayovic. Galician District Court of the city of Lvov vanivski Oleg Mihajlovich Kitzman District Court of the Czernovets region of Mizuk Viktor Mikolaiovich Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol Butzmak Yuri Evgenovich The master court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Olga Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote a draft decision on the election of judges. [[Registration number 9678-4]] Please vote. [[12:52:35]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you. Project Order 9678-5.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u189	Choose Volosin Vasil Alexandrovich as Judge of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u190	I'll bet on the vote on the bill of election of the judge. [[Registration number 9678-5]] Please vote. [[12:53:13]] For 273 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u192	Thank you, too, Igor Leonovich. Dear colleagues, allow me to welcome, on your behalf, the judges whom we have just elected to office on an untimely basis, and to wish them fruitful activity on the basis of the rule of law in good health. [[Applause]] I invite the head of the High Council of Justice, Kolesnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u193	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 22 December 2011 pursuant to article 126, paragraph 9, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law of Ukraine on the judiciary and the status of judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to make the appropriate submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In all the judges, their actual will, their foreign influence, or their coercion were not determined. The Higher Council of Justice proposes to resign from office, draft Decree 9679: on the release of judges. According to article 126, part five, paragraphs 3, 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to dismiss judges: Bahchisarai District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimeakova Jurya Mikolayayovich- in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; The District Court of Kiev, Yakovenko, Valentina Stepanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Sverdlov City Court of Luhansk, Buslenko, Valentina Petrovna, in view of the inability to exercise their health authority; Crimea Covtun Larissa Alexiyevna, the Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in connection with the application for resignation. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u194	Dear National Deputies! I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order on the release of Judges. [[Registration number 9679]] Please vote. [[12:55:34]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Allow me, on your behalf, to thank the judges who have faithfully served in their positions, and now, in view of the various circumstances, they are retired judges. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of questions in the second reading mode. I'm announcing the draft Law on the Future Generations Fund. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u195	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u196	One moment, Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u197	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we are indeed considering a strategically important law for the future. And we really have to get a benefit from it in both the medium-tactic and the long-term. Unfortunately, however, there are still some issues that have not been clarified definitively in the parliamentary environment. I fear that there will be no effective vote now. We have a request to defer consideration of this issue to February, so as not to fail this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u198	The committee head, what does he think about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u199	Well, we were on the committee yesterday. We supported him. But as the Supreme Council decides, we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to put to the vote a motion to postpone the consideration of the Future Generations Fund Act -- and after your decision, we'll move on, depending on what decision we make. A motion is put to the vote to postpone the consideration of the draft Law on the Fund of Future Generations. [[Registration number 9401]] Please vote. [[12:57:53]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is the turn of the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve confiscation procedures. [[Registration number 9208]] At the same time, I inform you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted this bill on the basis of 18.10.2010, until then the committee has not prepared a table, has not processed it. Vladimir Oliynik, first deputy head of the committee. Please, what is the reason?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u201	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, is a proposal to transpose this bill because there are no conclusions from the General Legal Authority and there are conclusions from the professional institutions that have made substantial warnings about anti-corruption. Therefore, it would be appropriate to postpone consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u202	Dear people's deputies, we also have to go on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u203	So there's no sign of what to carry?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u204	Yeah, right, so I'm betting on a vote that there's no. I'm betting on the vote not to discuss this issue. If the Supreme Council doesn't decide on this, we're going to look at it first, that's all. I am voting on a motion by the committee to postpone the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine to improve confiscation procedures. Please vote. And for the protocol, let's say that for the first February session of the next session, we're going to take it up. Let the committee work. [[12:59:47]] For 261 Decision taken. Because they're getting to the rally, and they're not getting to the law. A draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure the delivery of a mandatory copy of documents is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 8541]] The rapporteur is the Secretary of the Committee on Legislative Protection, Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u205	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts to ensure that a mandatory copy of documents is delivered, prepared by the Committee on Legislative Protection for Second Reading. [[Registration number 8541]] On November 1, 2011, the draft law was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. On December 21, 2011, the committee adopted a comparative table for the draft law. The committee received nine comments and proposals from law enforcement entities. Taking into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies during the consideration of the bill at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on November 1, 2011, of which 6 proposals were included, partly one, two were rejected. Amendment No. 6 of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, Petovka, has been rejected in order to mitigate the responsibility for not delivering or violating the deadline for delivering the required free copy of the documents. It has been rejected because the national MP's proposed fine of 10 to 20 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes will not affect the offender. By accepting this fine - size offer, we would have made it more convenient for the wrongdoer to pay the fine than to deliver the required free copy of the documents. For purely editorial reasons, proposal No. 8 of Ukraine’s National Deputy Carmazin has also been rejected. Committee proposal: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the designated bill in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u206	Thank you. Is Pétovka’s national deputy insisting on his amendment? No, it's not. Is Yuri Carmazin insisting on his amendment? 8 revisions. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u207	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, of the four amendments I have made, only one is unaccounted for. And here it's completely technical, I agree with the reporter and in his assessment that it's technical, you could have done that, and you could not have done that, there's nothing fundamentally there. I'm asking you to support the adoption of this bill, it's well-founded enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, since the vast majority of amendments, except for one, were taken into account, Yuri Carmazin withdrew the last amendment. Please, Vladimir Alexiyovich, our next actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u209	The committee suggested that the bill be adopted in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a second reading committee to adopt a bill as a whole as a law, namely, to amend certain legislative acts to ensure that a mandatory copy of the documents is delivered. [[Registration number 8541]] Please vote. [[13:03:55]] For 269 The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors is being announced for consideration. [[on the provision of medical and veterinary facilities for the use of narcotic drugs in the workplace]] Reporter to the Health Committee’s subcommittee, Vladimir Georgievovich Karpuk Please, Volodymyr Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u211	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 1 November 2011. [[on the provision of medical and veterinary facilities for the use of narcotic drugs in the workplace]] [[Registration number 9021]] [[of 20.07.2011]] The essence of the bill is to give private practitioners and veterinarians the right to obtain a license to limit narcotics and psychotropic substances, and therefore to use medical and veterinary drugs containing narcotics and psychotropic substances. In preparation for the second reading, 16 amendments were made to the committee, from Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin to 9 amendments, and Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachevi to 7 amendments. Including 15 amendments, not included Amendment No. 8 Yuri Karmazin, which concerned that the right to obtain a license for the circulation of drugs was given only to veterinarians and not allowed to obtain a license for the circulation of narcotics and psychotropic substances to private practitioners. So it was suggested that the words "medical or" should be deleted throughout the text. The amendment is rejected by the committee, since the committee believes that if a doctor is entitled to medical practice, he should be able to use all the medicines needed to provide medical care. And most importantly, from the point of view of the development of family medicine, the right to use narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, especially in the care of laymen, onceasers, will greatly enhance the capacity of a family doctor, without going beyond the level of his professional training. There are a number of observations made by the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority. And the committee wants to explain its point of view. First, and principally, the comments refer to the proposed changes, namely: from the notion of “legal persons” to “households”, they are only introduced in some articles without compliance in the final text of the law of logical legal consistency between the articles in which different articles use both the concept of “legal persons” and the concept of “household entities”. [[Articles 5, 7, 8, 9, 15, 17, 19, 22, 25, 26, 29]] Since the first reading of the bill did not touch on articles that the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine observed would be appropriate to make changes, and this marked the Chief Legal Authority, making such changes, taking into account article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it was impossible to read the second reading. And what's important, for the transcript, so I'm asking you to give a little time to. Make a donation. Amendments to the 15th National Deputy of the Republic of Ukraine of Bachtevo are being made. This amendment refers to the obligation to register transactions from the circulation of controlled substances directly to the individual, the entrepreneur, the licence holder. In view of the fact that the sentence in the current law is difficult and difficult to understand, please repeat for the stenogram a small technical amendment, namely: in amendment 15 before the words "physical person, entrepreneur" add the words "in journals". And the final edition will read as follows: "Operations carried out in the process of dealing with the circulation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors are subject to registration in special journals by legal persons, on whom this duty is imposed by the Director of Legal Affairs, and in the journals of natural persons, entrepreneurs who are licensed to carry out activities involving narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors, directly to such a person." And the fourth remark on the deadlines for the introduction of the bill, which is subject to amendments to the legislation. It is suggested that I also speak under the transcript, setting the term 1 March 2012. Therefore, all these observations of the General Legal Authority will be taken into account. On the basis of the above, taking into account the high relevance of the problem addressed by this bill, I ask the national MPs to support the bill with sound amendments as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, we need to go for a walk. Yes, but now let's ask Yuri Anatoliovich if we can vote. Amendment 8, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u213	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to thank the members of the Health Committee and, personally, Mr. Karpuk and Mrs. Bachteev for their serious approach to the consideration, including the amendments. I believe the bill is well prepared. And not counting one technical amendment of mine, I'm not going to raise any questions about any amendment. I think, and I want the bill to work faster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors. [[on the provision of medical and veterinary facilities for the use of narcotic drugs in the workplace]] [[Registration number 9021]] Please vote. [[13:10:45]] For 319 The law is passed. A draft Law on development and State support for small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9202]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u215	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 21 December 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Development and State Support of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in Ukraine, prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee for Second Reading. [[Registration number 9202]] The purpose of the bill is to resolve issues related to the development and state support of small and medium -sized enterprises in Ukraine. To draft and prepare the draft for second reading, a working group was set up on the committee, comprising the Ukrainian National Deputies, the executive authorities, and public organizations. The text of the bill from the legislators received 54 comments, most of which are rejected as contradicting the basic concept of the law adopted in the first reading. The proposals took into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the individual positions of the text are reflected in the requirements of existing tax legislation, which the Committee believes will contribute to the details and transparency of the text of the law. The adoption of the draft law will allow favourable conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises to develop in order to create a competitive environment in the economy of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision and adopt this bill in second reading as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, let's now consider the amendments to which national MPs will insist. Amendment 4. Xenia Leapina, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I want to pay attention so that we don't wait too long for the consequences of this law, it's a framework, it provides the basis for a policy of supporting entrepreneurship, but, as it will work, it depends directly on whether or not they will actually develop entrepreneurship in power. That is, the direct consequences of this law without trying to apply it, without funding it simply cannot be. But as for my point, a brief comment. Notice, this is where we define the basic orientations for which we support a small enterprise that we want from a small enterprise as a state. So what I'm stressing is that one of the main tasks of small businesses is to prevent unemployment and create new jobs. And it doesn't just contradict the whole concept of the law, it just reinforces it. And it seems to be an editorial change, but in fact, to determine the policy of small business development, for the future, for the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u218	Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u219	Dear Kseniya Mikhailovna, with great respect for you, but in our view, a more appropriate version is written in the body of the first law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u220	Vote 4 amendment, written by Kseniya Lápina. [[13:14:32]] For-26 Correction not supported. Jaroslav Jojik, 8th Amendment, do you insist on her? No, it's not. Yes, Biruk, Lev Biruk, 11th Amendment. I can't see. Jaroslav Jojik, 13th, right? Yuri Carmazin, 17th Amendment Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u221	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, as a whole, on the bill, thanks to the Committee for Tolerance, and Mikhail Vasilovich in particular. But I don't understand why the 17 amendments aren't included. Think about what Carmazin is offering. I propose article 8, paragraph 10, of Part 1, to be edited as follows: "Preparation and publication in the media, including on its own official website, information on types of State support, how to obtain such support, and reports on the status of small and medium-sized enterprise in Ukraine and its state support, the evaluation of financial, economic, social and other indicators of small and medium-sized enterprise development and the level of efficiency of State support." These changes I propose to ensure that the possibility of receiving State support is real, that is, accessible to any operator that meets the set requirements. Therefore, they should be informed about the state support of small and medium -sized enterprises. The knowledge of these subjects about species.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u222	Yes, I'm voting on the 17th amendment. I'd like to make a statement, fellow officers of honor. [[13:16:22]] For-34 Correction not supported. Amendment 19. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u223	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know who is getting in the way of citizens' reports and information about their work. I don't know, it doesn't make sense. But the next amendment is that in article 9, I propose to exclude paragraph 4 of Part 1, namely: “the creation of advisory and other auxiliary bodies on small and medium-sized business development”. End of quote. I propose this because, in section 5 of the first part of article 8 of the bill, the mandate of a special authority in the field of small and medium-sized enterprise has already been defined, I quote: "the creation of advisory, advisory and other auxiliary bodies on small and medium-sized enterprise development," which is the end of the quote, which is quite logical. The formation of such bodies by any executive body is too expensive, too burdensome and will result in wasteful use of the budgetary resources that will be allocated to the maintenance of such bodies. Please support this amendment. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u224	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 19 Yuri Karmazin. [[13:17:57]] For 20 Correction not supported. 21 Amendment, Kseniya Mikhailevna, no. Yuri Carmazin, 23rd Amendment Are you insisting on her? Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u225	Amendment 23, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Sadly, it is rejected. It is suggested in article 10 that paragraph 10 of Part One be deleted. What are you talking about? Establishment of advisory and other auxiliary bodies on small and medium-sized enterprises. I've already mentioned that this is an unnecessary element in this case, because this is provided for in part one, part one, paragraph 5. From the previous point of view, the Supreme Council does not accept. But I am addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and please. If the MP is based on an amendment, allowing the representative of the committee to substantiate the rejection of the amendment. Because there is no deviation in the justification table, and there is only a negative result. This is not right, it is contrary to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u226	In our view, the amendment, your amendment, Yuri Anatolyevich, is not entirely in line with the basic philosophy of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u227	I'll bet on the vote 23 of the amendment. [[13:19:38]] For -14 Correction not supported. 25 revisions. Are you insisting on her, Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone. And 26th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u228	I just want to say, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Yuri Karmazin, that, you know, doesn't fit the concept or respond. We've already seen the concept, reverend Mikhailo Vasilovich, and we've seen the result: small and medium-sized businesses are destroyed. This is the result of tax reform, it's the result of what everyone has heard, but not so. For some reason, we did not hear those who today demand that all activities of offshore zones be stopped and so on. As a result, I wanted to end the waste here too. But I don't insist that you vote, because it's basically like the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u229	Are you insisting on the 26th amendment or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u230	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you to note that the 26 amendments are fundamentally different, and here it is suggested to put article 12 in a different edition. I would like to present in this paper the title: "Advisory advice and other auxiliary bodies in the field of small and medium-sized enterprise development." First. In the case of the establishment of advisory or other auxiliary bodies in the field of small and medium -sized enterprise, the participation of representatives of public organizations representing the interests of small and medium -sized enterprises is ensured, further to the text. The other one. The formation of advisory or other auxiliary bodies in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises is determined in accordance with legislation. Third. Information on the intention to create an advisory, advisory or other auxiliary body in the field of small and medium-sized enterprise development is subject to publication in the media, as well as on the official website. This is briefly the essence of my proposal, a completely new design of this article. I thought she was better.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u231	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u232	Dear Yuri Anatolievich, on the one hand, we are talking about pre-regulation and on the other hand we are trying to regulate. If anyone considers it appropriate, some State institution would consider it appropriate to establish such a consultative body, it would probably not create that body for a bazaar or to spend time in meetings of that consultative body, but rather, in order that the decision of that consultative body would really be helpful in its work, in its constructive work. That's why you have to. In this situation, we consider the possibility or right of those who consider it appropriate to create and regulate the form of work and the quantitative and qualitative composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u233	Puts to the vote 26 amendments. [[13:22:50]] For-12. Correction not supported. Yuri Carmazin, 29th Amendment, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u234	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose in the 29th Amendment to do a very simple thing: to complement the new part, I stress, is a new part, the second part, of the following content: "State support cannot be given to legal persons, in statutory capital, whose share of contributions belonging to legal persons - founders and participants of these entities, who are not entities of small and medium-sized enterprises, exceeds 50 per cent." This is what I do to ensure that State support is provided to vulnerable individuals who cannot provide a normal level of activity on their own and who do not have additional sources of support. And we get everything the other way around, just like we do now with gas or the support of metallurgy or other industries. Support is provided to those who do not need it. Please support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u235	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich! Let's look at the world experience, where did the world crisis start in 2008? Virtually the largest banks, the largest corporations, have become bankrupt. And what, then, did the Government, the wise Government and the European States and the Americas watch these corporations fall? No, the State has placed its shoulders, its potential shoulders under banks, commercial banks, private banks, large corporations, and has not allowed them to fall. What are we starting? The matches are measured to give and not to give. That is why, of course, we will be fighting for decades in the mud of the crisis, but fortunately, the Government has a different approach. And we take advantage of the experience of world practice, and where shoulders need to be placed, the State will set up, thereby supporting the structures of small and medium-sized businesses and large businesses and raising the economy as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u236	I'm betting on the vote 29th amendment, Yuri Carmazin. [[13:25:23]] For the five of us. The amendment is not accepted. Next Amendment by Yuri Carmazin, 36. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u237	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Mikhailo Vasilovich, I know what you're saying. All I'd like to do is talk about the correction that was. It's just, unfortunately, that your comment is in the past, but we can't change the lines, I can only exchange it on account of my time for another amendment. It's just that your comment about supporting the kind of state-of-the-state olicharches that didn't really apply to that point, unfortunately, it didn't apply. This amendment refers to what I propose in the second part of the first paragraph of article 17 that the words "other sources" should be replaced by the words "costs of the Ukrainian Foundation for Enterprise Support and other state funds, regional and local foundations for entrepreneurship." Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u238	Vote Amendment by Yuri Karmazin, 36.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u239	Please back up! [[13:26:53]] For-19 Correction not supported. The next amendment, again, was by Yuri Carmazin, 45.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u240	And there's another 38, not rejected, Birukka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u241	That's what Biruk will say. I told you, he doesn't have any pretenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u242	Well, there's a smart amendment, and you turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u243	I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u244	40 amendment, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please, Carmazina. You see, yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u245	Oh, yeah, 40th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u246	Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u247	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u248	Sorokova.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u249	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u250	Article 17 after part three of the proposal to complete the following new part of the fourth sentence: "In the event of receiving financial State support to a person who cannot be supported by the State in relation to the circumstances defined in article 14 of this Act, the recipient is obliged to return the full amount of financial support provided to the Government in accordance with the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." I don't think we should chew it up, it's like I put it out. Please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u251	The vote is amended by 40, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u252	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u253	[[13:28:15.]] For-30 Correction not supported. Now it's Amendment 45, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u254	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 45 refers to article 19, paragraph 2. In this article, I propose the first part after the third paragraph to complete with a new paragraph, fourth paragraph, with the following content: "About the types of State support for small and medium-sized enterprises, how to obtain such support."and then after the text. This is based on the fact that the possibility of receiving State support by small and medium -sized enterprises should be realistic. So it's accessible to any entity that meets the set requirements. Therefore, they should be informed of the state’s support. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u255	The 45th Amendment of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u256	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u257	[[13:29:42]] For-22. Correction not supported. All right, that's it. Yuri Vasilovich, please make your closing statement. Mikhail Vasilovich, your closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u258	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I fully agree with what Kseniya Mikhailna said, that this law, in fact, prescribes rules and prescribes a purely organizational side for supporting small business. But financial security is still needed, as is said, for the final solution, both in general and in the complex of this issue. I think it's the first step towards real small business and entrepreneurship getting very important support from the state for the purpose of its development and for the purpose of increasing the middle class of Ukraine as the basis for the stability of our society. I ask you to support the proposal and vote in the second reading and in general for this bill, which opens the way for supporting small businesses and businesses in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. At the same time, I would like to point out to you that the Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill is subject to rejection. With this in mind, dear colleagues, I ask you to make a decision. I am voting on the proposal of a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law on Development and State Support for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in Ukraine. [[Registration number 9202]] Please vote. [[13:31:47]] For 272 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u260	We're looking at a draft Act on the characteristics of the formation of a state-owned shareholding association for rail transport in general use. [[Registration number 9337]] [[second reading]] The head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Mikhailo Ivanovich Mironenko, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u261	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! On December 23, last year, the Committee on Transport and Communications at its meeting reviewed the proposals of legislators for a bill on the specificities of the establishment of a state-owned public limited liability association for general use, submitted by Cabinet of Ministers at number 9337 and adopted as a basis on December 9, 2011. 89 proposals and amendments were received from legislators, 36 of which are included, 1 in part, and 52 are rejected. The text of the bill is amended to improve the organizational and legal conditions of society. In particular, the term "public shareholding society" is used instead of the term "public shareholding society"; the assignment of accrued amortization to property, based on the company's rights to agriculture, knowledge, financing of capital investments in such property; the registration of property rights to immovable property in the absence of legal instruments on the basis of a transferable act and an asset valuation act to the statutory capital of the company; the identification of a list of professional start-up facilities that may be reorganized in the creation of a society; the direction of dividends from subsidiaries to the restoration of the main assets of such enterprises; the setting of terms, 3 months, for the government to decide on the formation of a society. A number of technical and editorial amendments were also introduced. Rejected proposals do not fit the concept of reforming railway legislation because they duplicate existing legislation. Thus, for example, the proposal to start a state-owned enterprise with its subsequent organization into an association of stockholders delays and complicates the reform process and is not in line with international practices, such as those of the European Union, Russia and others. The main legal authority in the comments to the project points out that its position on the establishment and management of such a company does not correspond to the general principles of the formation of the owners, the legal nature of the public shareholder society, and the powers of the Supreme Council. I note that according to paragraph 5 of part one of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the principles of transport organization are defined solely by the laws of Ukraine. Taking into account the requirements of the Constitution and the fact that the subject of the project is the definition of the principles of the organization of railway transport and its functioning, the observation of the non-conformity of the forms of project with the Basic Law of the State is inappropriate. In addition, much of the Chief’s comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u262	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u263	duplicate the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, who, in turn, had a broad discussion at all stages of the project and the proposal for them is presented in the proposals of the National Deputies and the decisions of the Committee. I propose to accept the proposed drafting of the bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u264	We're going after the amendments, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, here is basically the amendment of colleagues of Ribakov, Caplienne, Kamchatny, one group of amendments that are not included. And the second amendment by Karmazin. And there's one of the other adjustments. So I ask the group: Ribakov, Caplienko, Kamchatny, and Comrade Carmazin to identify which amendments they will insist on for us to consider. As for the 1 amendment that is included, please. Vladimir Leschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u265	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! First, we need to answer the question, "What did the privatization of state property give the people of Ukraine?" And the fact that public property has been looted, sold out, destroyed or concentrated in the hands of a bunch of Ukrainian oligarchs, and the formation of a State Shareholder Society for general rail transport is the first step towards privatizing it. Privatization of general rail transport will be the next crime of bourgeoisie against the people, and the formation of a public stockholder society instead of a public society, as adopted in the first reading, is already the beginning of privatization. So I'm going to ask you to make one amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u266	Yes, dear fellows, 1 correction is included. The first option in the first reading was "State Shareholder Society." The authors of the amendments propose instead of "state" -- "public stockholder society." I'm putting one amendment to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:38:10]] For 231 Confirmed. Unfortunately, it'll be public. The factions, please. Region Party - 186, BUT - 9, Our Ukraine - 5, Communists did not vote, Reforms - 2, People's Party - 20, Postfaction - 9. 2 revisions. Who's it gonna be? Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u267	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction has a clear position on this law. We have every intention of discussing today, and we would like to make a statement from the very beginning. We insist on considering each revision. We're going to make our case in every direction, and if we don't take our rights into account, we're not going to support this bill. As for the state form. Any normal owner collects property in one basket and only then realizes that he can keep it for himself to manage it effectively and pass the rest on to create real competition. If we're moving away from this approach today and we're creating a stock company right now, which is the approach to all the property complexes. They go into the Crucifixion today and they're next to it, they're going to be scattered, so we don't support that kind of a thesis. I want to tell you that it's the state form of such an enterprise that makes it possible to move assets.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u268	The 2nd amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:40:03]] For 20 Not supported. Carmazine. I'm sorry, 5th Amendment. Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u269	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Let me finish. I would ask you very much to at least pay attention to me. I would like to stress that we are calling for today's Parliamentary Hall, bearing in mind that it is a very complex bill, and it does not depart from the position of perhaps large, very large levels of state corruption. Take it off today and send it back to read again. I call on you on behalf of the MP faction, this is our official decision. It's about editing. We insist that the state-owned company Ukrzalznica itself be formed as the only economic entity to be reformed for two years, with the state-owned part being set aside at the level of the infrastructure sector, which includes roads, electricity, substations and so on -- vertically integrated companies, and perhaps private companies in the future, which provide one or more services in a direction and work within a single normal competition. In doing so, we will not lose the wealth complexes that we have today. I am very much asking you to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u270	The 5th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:41:38]] For-21 Not supported. It's a 6-mendment. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u271	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, what is now going on around this law is a terrible crime against the people of Ukraine. Uncovered stretches of pockets and railways are already in progress. You're turning it into a so-called public stockholder society by pulling it out of state property without doing anything yet. That's why the name is wrong, and I've suggested that part one be added to the corresponding change in numbering by a new paragraph, one, of the following content, and I define what is the "maintained shareholding society of general rail transport," then, "the society" is that it's the subject of farming, which is formed in the form of a public shareholding society in the order envisaged by this law, a hundred percent of the shares of which belong to the State. Because current legislation did not define what "state stock" was and what "public" did not contain. So stop clicking your pockets!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u272	5 fixes. I'm sorry, the 6th amendment's on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:43:10]] For-26 Not supported. Yeah, next, 13th Amendment, Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u273	The amendment is fully related to the 1 amendment, in particular, with the 2 amendment, where we insist that the entire text of the word "sociality" be replaced by "public enterprise". Why? I explained that because it is a state-owned enterprise and its shape that allows it to manage and move the core funds and assets that are in that monopoly that will be created for a period of time, there is a year, two years, six months until a decision is made on its distribution. That is the form that enables such financial and economic transactions to be created. Let me remind you that the stockholders' company is managed in its activities and only transfers assets that have the name of any issued shares or securities that are at its disposal. Any property can't be counted freely in this way. And in fact, it's not possible to create a single, powerful infrastructure complex that will then be allocated to the state form of ownership. So we insist on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u274	The 13th amendment is on the vote, please identify yourself. [[13:44:40]] For-24 Not supported. 14th Amendment, Caplienne.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, well, I am once again addressing the Hall, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, to all of us, and to common sense. I think the faction takes a purely real normal position so that it doesn't lose the power that it has today. And we insist, on behalf of the faction, that this law be directed at re-reading. On the right hand side, I would like to remind you that I am in the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers for the creation of the Concept of the State Rail Transport Reform Program signed by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. So all the amendments made to the 14th amendment are taken from here. So the main goal of the reform of the Crucifieds is what it's aimed at and why it's doing it at all. Not to enrich someone, but to keep them in state form of ownership and within state control, this property complex is excluded from those vertically integrated structures, transporting cargo, passenger transport and so on, which can be transferred into private form. We have to vote for these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u276	The 14th amendment is for the vote, please be determined. [[13:46:09]] For-21 Not supported. 15th Amendment, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u277	Yuri Carmazin. It is a pity that you did not support the previous amendments. The law is becoming completely dangerous. I propose to supplement the text of the law with a new article 2, which reads: "The specificity of the legal status of the State Shareholders Association for the general use of rail transport. The State Association for Railways of General Use should meet these requirements. First. It is formed in the form of a public stock company. The other one. The founder of the Society is the State in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Third. The only shareholder society is a state that owns 100 percent of society that is not alienated. Four. The mandates of the single shareholder society are carried out by the central executive authority in the areas of transport, road agriculture, tourism, and infrastructure. Fifth. The property refers to property rights that are not subject to privatization. Six. The statutory capital of the Society is formed from property owned by the State Administration of Rail Transport of Ukraine to enterprises, organizations and general rail transport institutions." You realize there's a need to reflect.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u278	15 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:47:40]] For the 17th. Not supported. The 17th Amendment of the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, what this amendment is about. It's about the creation of the Railroads within the framework of the current railway reform programme and the formation of the next position. First. It is necessary to establish a governmental body of state administration with operators in the field and in the field of rail transport, which is not available today. Which would then effectively control the direction of licensing or tariffing on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers in its direction. The other one. The creation of the Crossroads as the only operator and national carrier for two years, with further reform and separation of nine vertically integrated structures in a direction that has not only the direction of passenger or freight transport, but also the direction of social security, which today is on the roadside balance. And the next. The Crossroads are subject to reform, and this decision is passed on to the Cabinet of Ministers for two years with the appointment of precisely such structures. But until then, it will be strong. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u280	The 17th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:49:10]] For-24 Not supported. 18th Amendment. Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u281	Dear colleagues, the point is that only the Cabinet of Ministers has to transfer the right to organize and eliminate the organ that we are creating today. We're writing about the fact that the formation of the Distinction Organization is being carried out by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with legislation, taking into account the characteristics defined by this law. No reference should be made to the legislative basis, as do subjects of a legislative initiative that does not exist in nature, respected colleagues. You're referring to some kind of legislative field that doesn't exist. The only law that regulates this area and actually legitimizes the fact that today they're spraying the Crucifixion in front of our eyes with you is this law, there's nothing left, there's nothing left to refer to. So please let us be guided only by this law. That's the whole point of this. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to put it to the vote again, but I'm not going to make any more similar proposals, because the point is one thing. We've voted not once that there's no society, but the Crucifixion. This amendment has not been supported twice or three times. So wherever they are similar, in accordance with the Rules, I will no longer put them to the vote, and I will put them to the vote. 18th Amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:50:48]] For-26 Not supported. 19th. Carmazine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u283	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the first part be supplemented by a new paragraph. "Since the date of the decision to form a society, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to: first, to monitor the compliance of effective legislation with the creation of a society, to approve the list of enterprises, organizations and institutions of rail transport general use, the assets of which are transferred to the statutory capital of societies and households, shares, portions, rations contributed to its statutory capital, in accordance with the requirements of this law, and to ensure the publication of such censuses; to ensure the conduct of the inventory, valuation of the value of assets transferred to the statutory capital of the company and in accordance with the requirements of the act of law; to ensure the conduct of an audit, financial reporting and environmental audit of enterprises, institutions and organizations of railway transport, which are reorganised; to approve the statute of association, to approve the establishment of the law of the company, the establishment of the law governing body of the company and the establishment of the law of the property. Dear National Deputies! Please support these adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u284	19 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u285	Please be supportive. [[13:52:17]] For-25 Not supported. 20 amendments, Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u286	Dear colleagues! So, speaking to the members of the committee of profile and, in general, to the deputies of the Supreme Council or Ukrainian citizens: please tell us when it is decided that the Anti-Monopoly Committee should even close its eyes to the fact that enterprises of this level and this law are being established, and it says here that the Anti-Monopoly Committee should not be involved at all, but should be given provisional permission, please say, does it not conflict with the legislation in force? Was he a representative of the Committee, a representative of the Antimonopoly Committee? And do we have the findings of the Antimonopoly Committee that legislation and direct law on the Antimonopoly Committee are being violated? I don't understand the logic that you're rejecting. If you'd like, we'll go to the Constitutional Court. I ask you to put it to a vote. If you don't hear what the MPs say, well, then I don't know what to talk to you about. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u287	I'll bet you 20 votes. Please vote for the rebirth group. [[13:53:34]] For-28 Yes, 21 amendments, Caplienne, but we've already voted on it. Once again, it's about state, public. Yes, 22 revisions. Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u288	Dear Adam Ivanovich! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" is not called "Rebirth," it's the MP's "Reforms for the Future". It's about this. I'd like to read "The Crucifixion" is subject to further reform by decommissioning from its membership of the State Shareholders Association, which provides the management of the railway transport infrastructure of the state-owned form of ownership itself, and other enterprises of the state or private form of ownership with specialization in economic activities. The Reformation of Crossroads can't be done sooner than two years after it was created. The decision to reform "Urzalznice" is taken only by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." What is the contradiction of logic? This is a well-written standard of the approved State Reform Program for Crossroads, signed by today's President. Well, what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u289	Thank you. I didn't call you a rebirth group, I said that the group that's fighting for the resurgence of the Crucifixion, so you won't deny it. 22nd vote. [[13:55:10]] For-27 Not supported. 25 revisions. Please, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u290	Dear colleagues, this is a technical amendment that relates to the formation of a statutory fund. We predict that the statutory fund of this Crucifixion, which we propose to create, should include the entire infrastructure part that is currently in operation. Do not hold back on the right of economic knowledge, as is provided by some of our heads, to the subject of the legislative initiative provided for by this law. Predictably, to contribute to the statutory capital of the enterprise and to manage it on behalf of the State. That's all there is to it. Ladies and gentlemen of Communists, I'm looking in the hall at you -- and I don't understand your position, you're completely amorphous. Why is it that today, in front of your eyes, the representatives of the left - hand idea, is the public enterprise being pollinated, and you remain silent? I don't understand this position in the hall! I ask you to speak. Thank you. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u291	They will say their word, and you will see it, and you will feel it. 25th vote. [[13:56:30.]] For-31 Not supported. 26 The Chapel’s Amendment
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u292	This is such a technical amendment that comes down to the replacement of the word." capitals for the word "funds." We're talking about the statutory fund, because the state-owned company Ukrzalznica, which we insist on, has to create its statutory fund to which the property is being contributed, which the state effectively manages and does not allow it to monopolize this market, so that Ukrainians who travel from Odessa to Kiev pay not 200 dollars for their shipments today in the bath wagon, but 1500. And when this carrier puts up his visa and says, "No, I'm working for my profit and only for him." The State itself in any country of the world is the guarantor of the social component of this state. If we're getting away from this, well, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen of the Communist Party, I ask you to take part in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u293	The 26th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:57:40]] For-32 Not supported. 27th, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u294	Yuri Carmazin. It is clear to all that this law is corrupt. And now I understand why it was given to the national MPs in the Hall today, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, in 12 hours I received it in violation of the law of the Rules. So that people don't understand that the media aren't, that's why it's done. The point of my amendment is that I propose a second part of the third paragraph in the following wording: "Since the date of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to form an association with the State Register, the State Administration of Railway Transport, Business, Organization of Railway Transport, Economic Associations, 100 percent of whose shares belong to the State and contribute to the statutory capital, do not have the right to commit offences that may lead to the alienation of the assets of these entities, the reduction of the number of employees, the issuance of securities, the lending of loans, the transfer of immovable property to the lease, the transfer of property to the mortgage, the free use, the acquisition of shares. The actions provided for in paragraphs 3, 4, 6 may take place if there is agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u295	The 27th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:59:18]] For-36 Not supported. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. The 28th Amendment of the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u296	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, this amendment is of this nature. There are so-called special types of economic activity in the Crossroads today. And those who edited the existing law in the first edition didn't anticipate and forget about such things as: structures that build infrastructure, do research work, maintain social infrastructure, other activities, including passenger transport, which are not profitable. I'm addressing all the representatives of this room. Wake up, all of you! You won't be allowed to reprivatize the Crucibles. Dear Communists, wake up! If you're supporting the privatisation of the Cruises, it's just a pipe. Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, as in the past, you have never been the leader of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go! Send it to the second reread, otherwise it'll be an illegal project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u297	Volodymyr, when we approach the final vote, you can make such calls. But at the same time, I would not ask Mikhail Vasilovich to wake up. 28 amendments, please. Let's put 28 amendments to the vote. [[14:01:00]] For-24 Not supported. Yes, Caplienne, 29th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u298	Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, let's not go to 29th, but 29th and 30th together to shorten the time, well, it's a disgraceful thing that's happening in the hall right now! The 29 revisions are purely technical. And the 30 amendments apply to the following. Dear colleagues, who, after private companies appear in Ukraine and no one is regulated in that country, and the state is moving away from the problem of tariffing, maintaining infrastructure projects? The government budget will support the railway with its wheels and its provisions. And then you and I are going to accept the state budget not with a 140 billion hole, but maybe with a 300 billion dollar hole. So this amendment is that the State should not deviate from the issue of tariff formation and it regulates through its specialized public authority for tariffs, in the face of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, if you say so. I'm asking you to support this. Wake up!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u299	30 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[14:02:23]] For-27 Not supported. 32 revisions. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u300	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have put it so simply: if the late Grigory Mikolaiovich Kirpa could see that you are now creating in this law, I swear to you, they would have blown up this room. He'd probably blow it up for you. And each individual of the two bullets that he received would probably be, too. That's why I'm offering it. Part of this is in the following edition: "The Society is the successor of all rights and obligations of enterprises, institutions and organizations of general rail transport, which have ceased their activities in connection with the creation of a society, as well as the State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine in part of the performance of its agricultural functions. The State Railway Administration of Ukraine is the successor of the rights and obligations relating to State administration by the central executive authority in the field of transport, road agriculture, tourism and infrastructure. It is my suggestion that society should be a successor. And the project doesn't take into account that the Railroad is an authority for rail transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u301	The 32 amendments shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u302	Please back up! [[14:03:55]] For-26 Not supported. Carmazine, 33rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u303	Yuri Carmazin. I'm very sorry that we don't understand what law enforcement is like, how it's done. I am glad that some people understand, and I thank those who survive and vote for the amendments. But nevertheless, I ask every MP to understand the responsibility that is now in every correction. I propose that part nine be excluded, namely: "When the company is formed, its statutory capital is formed, and the state administration of rail transport and railway undertakings is terminated, including during. and the introduction of the obligation to transfer the debt, the conduct of the reorganization does not apply to the provision of legislation on. obtain the creditor's agreement on the replacement of the debtor, the creditor's rights to demand for enforcement, the impossibility of completion.",--and on with the text. This is due to the fact that such positions may lead to a violation of creditors ’ rights, a breach of their obligations, and a breach of their obligations. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u304	33 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:05:22]] For-29 Not supported. 35th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u305	Yuri Carmazin. To some who have woken up or who I'm preventing from sleeping, I'm explaining that at this time, when the state's property is being stretched out, acquired by many generations, today the whole state needs not to sleep, but the brothers and the shoes will become, because you are now openly, openly, stressing, committing a state crime. And you think you're hiding behind a collective responsibility? No, it's not. All those who vote for it will be called to account for the expansion of state property. And then you will not be like Julia Timoshenko; you will be worse off because she will be a life imprisonment, and she will be to anyone who votes in favour of this shameful bill. And I propose in my amendment that we add the words "The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine," because the Ukrzalznica enterprise is monopolies, and so when we create such a society, we need to control the enforcement of antimonopoly legislation by the Antimonopoly Committee. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u306	Puts to the vote the 35th Amendment of Carmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:06:56]] For-26 Not supported. 36th Amendment, Carmagina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u307	Yuri Carmazin. I thank everyone who cares about the state and the law. I propose part ten after paragraph one to complete with a new paragraph of the second sentence: "For 14 days from the date of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to form a society, the association commission shall provide a list of enterprises, institutions and organizations of rail transport general use, whose assets are transferred to the statutory capital of the society, and a list of farm societies, stocks, parts of which are contributed to its statutory capital, for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." In this regard, paragraphs 2 and 3 please be considered third and fourth. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome and support both my proposals and the suggestions made by the People's Deputy Kaplanko because they are correct and are in favour of the interests of the people who have delegated you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u308	The 36 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[2:08:21]] For-30 Not supported. 38th. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u309	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you for having us in the hall, although it's estimated that the opposition here is now 200 votes, at least it is, but you see quite different results on the board. I would like to put it this way: "The Commission submits to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for approval of the reported transmission act, a summary of the valuation of the property of general rail transport, and a draft statute of association. The consolidated act and act of assessment shall be based on the generalised data of the transmission acts and valuation acts submitted by the Commissions for the termination of the State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine, enterprises, institutions and organizations of rail transport for general use." I hope you all understand how important it is and how important it is now, and everything is done here in order not to account for anything, not to value anything, and then just to get it into certain hands. Please support my suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u310	The 38th Amendment, Carmagina, is voting. [[14:09:50]] For-31 Not supported. 39 amendments. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u311	Yuri Carmazin. I beg you not to slander me. The Pole is voting just right. In the state's opinion, I want to thank him. Please add new parts 11 and 12 to the following content: "Since the approval of the lists of enterprises, institutions and railway organizations for general use, the assets of which are transferred to the statutory capital of the company and the list of companies, stocks, particles, rations that are contributed to its statutory capital, the central executive authority in the field of transport, road agriculture, tourism and infrastructure shall form a commission from the termination of the State administration of railway transport of Ukraine, enterprises, institutions and railway transport organizations for the general use of each sub-entity of management separately. The State Administration Commission includes: the Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine, representatives of the central executive body in the field of transport, road agriculture, tourism and infrastructure, the Maintenance Fund, and an independent auditor. The commission for the closure of enterprises and organizations includes the management of the business concerned and representatives."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u312	The 39th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:11:21]] For-24 Not counted. Yes, we do. 47th, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u313	Dear colleagues, this is essentially a technical paper that deals with closing one article and transferring it to another. I have nothing to say except that, dear fellows, be shocked! Stop and let's put a dot in this -- let's put this bill back on second reading. Do you see what's going on in the hall? We have deputies sleeping today, they think we can do this by closing our eyes, not seeing that we have, if you don't mind, been driven, by a major and large enterprise in Ukraine on the state transport of rail transport. Well, how could that be? I want to insist and tell you that we're going to ask the President of Ukraine with a big request, with a low clincher, to veto this bill, and then we're going to advance the list of those who voted in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u314	So you don't insist on voting the amendment? No, it's not. Yes, dear colleagues, that's 47th we've considered. There's a 45th observation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u315	Yuri Carmazin. I am. That's where my colleague is supposed to say, Adam Ivanovich. He used to.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u316	Keykovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u317	Klukkowski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u318	Thank you. I want to draw the attention of honourable colleagues, especially those who have a bearing on the jurisprudence, that this law completely oversteps the position of the Civil Code and the Master Code. For example, it refers to the statutory fund to a right of economic knowledge or a right of use that cannot be in the fund. But I want to draw attention to two positions of 45 and 46 amendments that just conflict with each other and also contradict the status of such a society. Look, the 45th is about dividends received by society. Sorry, dividends are received by the owner or founder, not by society, or by the State. The 46th instead of dividends says net profit. But these two terms conflict with each other, either one or the other. Well, you can't write this law illiterately. These amendments I ask you to place two for confirmation, each individually.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u319	I see. Dear colleagues, the 45th Amendment, the Deputy Synics, accounted for. Colleagues insist on her confirmation. I'm putting 45 amendments on confirmation. [[14:14:20]] For 213 Not confirmed. Puts to the vote 46 amendments for confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:14:43]] For 211 Not confirmed. Yes, please, Kowzel, 49th. Don't insist. 50th, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u320	Dear colleagues, well, this is certainly a technical amendment when the elimination, in our view, of two articles on the formation of society and its statutory organs makes it necessary to change from the eighth to the tenth. But I'd like to pay attention to what's going on in this room right now. I thank the distinguished representatives of BUTU who have stopped supporting this, in our view, shameful law. And I see that instead of 231 deputies, it's 211. Thank you! And so do you, Your Honor. Thank you. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-12-m0.u321	Dear colleagues, I understand the 50th doesn't vote. We'll figure it out with you. At the evening session, we will continue our consideration of the bill. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The opening of the evening session is 0 16 hours.
