ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:23]] There were 305 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 16 October 2012. 52 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 39 laws and 5 regulations were passed, 5 bills were adopted on a basis, 2 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, one law has been passed in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. 67 parliamentary inquiries were announced. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you my attention to the announcement. According to the application and in accordance with article 60, part 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jury Sergiyyyovich, from the membership of the deputy faction "BUT - "Fatherhood". Honourable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are scheduled for Tuesday to speak on behalf of authorized factions and MPs, with proposals, statements, messages, and so forth. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Alexander Efraemov. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u2	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! Elections are over. I hope that even out of the hottest head, the pre-election rhetoric will go away for some time, and we will work together for the benefit of our country. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all colleagues who have passed the voter's trust test for the next five years, and to wish not to be lost outside this building to those who will soon be doing another job. From this rostrum, I would also like to thank all those who have come to the polls and those who have voted. Special thanks to those who voted in favour of the Party of Regions and its representatives. I promise we'll work so we won't let you down. The elections took place without systematic violations, in a hard but fair struggle of political programmes and individuals. This has been facilitated by the Law on the Election of People's Deputies adopted by the constitutional majority of Parliament. The democratic nature of the campaign was confirmed by the fact that its results could not be predicted in advance. Those single precedents, when the struggle of candidates has gone beyond the bounds of common sense and morality in selected major districts, I hope that the law enforcement authorities and the judiciary will be evaluated in principle. We also welcome the honest position of most of the 3,000 797 international observers, 360,000 party observers and social organizations. The unprecedented number of observers is another reaffirmation of the openness of the Ukrainian authorities and the desire for transparency in the elections. We have received dozens of positive feedback, largely because of their objectivity, the democratic nature of the elected new Parliament is recognized by the world community. Criticism also sounded, and far from always justified, but we are open to cooperation and expertise in the process of improving national electoral legislation. One possible solution to the problems identified is the adoption of an Electoral Code that would harmonize the rules for the conduct of elections at all levels, from presidential to local. Dear colleagues, one of the most important outcomes of the elections was that, for the first time in the recent history of Ukraine, the party in power won a fair fight. Moreover, this has been done in the context of our country's global economic crisis. We value every vote cast for the Party of the Regions. It is not difficult to vote for the opposition, but to support the steps taken by the authorities, it is an expression of a balanced adult position. Our joint victory with you, the well-respected voters, guarantees the continuation of the President's course on the development of the country and the improvement of the standard of living of everyone. The 2012 elections have become a step from our two-year solid foundation to tomorrow. Key reforms have been initiated: pension, tax, regulatory, administrative, judicial and land. By implementing the modernization programme, we are qualitatively changing the face of the country. The integrity of the path we have chosen is evidenced by positive signals from international experts. The World Bank and the International Finance Corporation increased Ukraine's position on business terms by 15 points. We have entered the first construction of the countries that have made business easier, and in the World Economic Forum's competitiveness rating, our country has risen to nine positions. We're moving forward and that's the main thing. Legislation has been developed on the agenda to remove the economy from the shadows, attract investment, and ensure the country's energy independence. I am sure that we will be able to complete the sixth call and accept the 2013 balanced budget. This will lay the foundations for the country's normal life and create the conditions for quality work for the next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u3	Everything? Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Next up will be Greenewecko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today, we can say that the electoral campaign has virtually ended and that it has also resulted in a violent political struggle against parliamentary mandates, which has put the whole country under pressure since the start of the electoral campaign. Now, at last, everyone will be able to sigh with relief and calmly approach their professional and service responsibilities without populism. The Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Convention worked on the Constitution’s terms and, after making a significant contribution to the formation of Ukrainian statehood, it should go down in history. In this context, the MP's Reform for the Future Group believes it is necessary to note that during the transitional period when the newly elected parliament has not yet entered into its responsibilities and that the current one has not yet completed its mandate, the national deputies of the Sixth Assembly of Ukraine should not adopt strategically important decisions. This applies primarily to the State Budget Act 2013 because the political responsibility for state affairs in the State will be placed on the newly elected Parliament. Secondly, we are told that we do not have to take up questions about draft laws relating to land reform, fiscal policy in part concerning tax changes and any privatisation issues. In view of what has been said, the Reforms for the Future faction calls on the people's deputies of the sixth call to refrain from the conclusion of the session from putting in order of the day and considering drafts that cause tension in society, including the treatment of history, the deregulation of the economy and the privatization of state or municipal property enterprises. However, there is a brief appeal for the deputies of the seventh vocation. The honourable deputies who will come to this session hall after the completion of the previous call, we would like to ask you, please, not to miss and pay attention to the necessary reform steps for the State. First of all, Ukraine needs to build a mixed economic system, because in 21 years of anarchy and turmoil, Ukraine's state finances have become a cordial abyss of loans from the International Monetary Fund, the World and European Banks, financial interventions by China, Russia. At the same time, the government budget’s own income has been cut tens of times, leading to the formation of a whole class of poor people, while a couple of threes of hundreds of others boast of their wealth, or Mayans, or planes. State property for sale no longer remains, and private entrepreneurs are finally denied justice???the data sheets. You need to pay attention to what you have failed to pay attention to the previous MPs — the sixth call and the fifth one — to the return of the State to their respective functions. Because in 21 years of government regulation, government authorities failed to perform all their duties: first they killed their own government production, then they moved away from pricing, government procurement, and control over natural monopolies and fossils. Third. The Ukrainian land should be preserved, on which, according to the King’s reform of Peter the Stolipe, the territorial communities should be granted the right to their own employment and decent life, for Ukraine still has Ukrainian land. Or beware, for in the seventh calling, you will be placed before your choice, whether to leave the land of Ukraine to the use of the territorial communities or not. And the last. Note the preservation of the Ukrainian language. Ukraine is a monopoly, but it stands at the threshold of the loss of its language and culture. The Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2013 will be a decisive battle for their preservation or destruction. Therefore, fellow believers, we all wish you good. On behalf of the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, we call for pragmatism, a cold mind, and a desire to save our own state, no matter what. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u5	Sergey Greenewecki, faction of the People's Party. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The previous results of the electoral campaign show that there has been a situation of uncertainty in society over many of the challenges of time. The protracted systemic crisis, the departure of a large part of society from political participation in the country, caused depression, apathy, and discontent. The marginalization covered entire social strata, regardless of the level of education, qualifications, and workplace, which became the basis for the radicalism of both the left and the right. All of this is good food for the reflection of the Constitutional Assembly, which in the course of its activities has to answer the key questions: which in Ukraine is the state system, the form of government, and the political regime. During the election, investments in Greek and black pear packets became the main pre-election technology and exceeded investment in the economy. The reason for this is the inefficiency of a functioning system of local self - government. Local councils are practically failing to carry out their constitutional and legal tasks, including lack of authority and financial resources. Most of the petitions and petitions made by citizens to candidates in national parliaments are about local issues: asphalting the streets and interquartal passages of garbage, trimmings of trees, and, excuse me, running stray dogs. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that without effective local self-government, the work of the Supreme Council is impossible and effective. Therefore, the constitutional process initiated by the President of Ukraine should address key issues, including local power reform. The poverty of the vast majority of the population is very often a determining factor. Work in our country is no longer of value. People become disheartened at the fact that honest work can bring about a measure of well - being. This gives rise to open consumer expectations. Perhaps that is why there were so many promises among the pre-election slogans to level, lower or raise, and very few proposals for reform of the political and economic system. Poverty and inefficiencies in the public machinery are the main problem: corruption, which is now recognized as one of the threats to national security. You have to admit, the willingness of some voters to sell their votes is a kind of reaction of society to total corruption. The behavior of the population is a cynical pragmatism, which is a straight line towards demilitarizing society. The political elite of the State must understand their responsibility for the loss of moral guidance, and populism and bribery are corrupt in the same way as those who give out promises and supplies and to those to whom they are handed out. Trying to use the situation for corporate purposes poses a huge threat. Another important issue in the marked context, over the past ten years, we have survived four parliamentary election campaigns, including either one out of turn, and each time the election was under a new law. I think we need to put an end to the experiments in the electoral system and go back to the adoption of, by the way, the electoral code that has already been drafted, which would define the rules of the game and lay the foundations of political tradition and the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u7	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Zabzaluk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The elections to the Supreme Council, which took place on 28 October, are without reservation the most dirty in the history of Ukraine. By its cynical, false and depravity, the current electoral campaign has gone beyond anything else: continuous administrative arbitrariness, moral and physical pressure on members of the electorate, carousel on the day of the vote, support for militia violators who protected counterfeiters, and not the will of the people to choose power. They closed their eyes to clear violations of the law. Criminal manipulations around voter lists, such as those in Nikolayev region, where 250 people were illegally prescribed in the administration of the Nikolayev Regional Committee of the Company of Ukraine, with housing numbers. This is an indication of their persecution and of the tasks they have undertaken. Lying and provocation is what created power in this electoral campaign right on election day and in the voting phase. Add to this the frank debasing of budget money for the electoral campaigns of active officials and their relatives, sons and brothers and covens. This is the oil painting they say in Odessa. Therefore, on behalf of the faction, I propose the establishment of an investigative commission to investigate financial abuse and, of course, political crimes, the use of budgetary money in past elections to support their relatives, as well as others. And in our view, it is necessary to immediately revise the Elections and Elections Act on a proportionate basis, because the elections on the majority system in Ukraine are not those where people choose deputies who are willing to defend their interests, protect their rights and freedoms. In Ukraine, the elections on the majority system are bribery, intimidation, blackmail, use of administrative resources. This was primarily the competition for cash bags, when tens of millions of dollars, euros and bracelets were dropped for bribes, counterfeits. The fight was not about the right and duty to serve the people and the people, but about how, in defeating the interest, to return the money spent to the elections, to increase their status, to exercise their powers and to exercise their parliamentary integrity. However, whether the oligarchs or the orange or white doves followed the signs. The arrival of representatives of the Nazi party, with the support of certain business clans, is not only a blow to the reputation of our country, as reported by the world's leading information agencies, but a direct threat to national security. As in the 1920s and 1930s, German Nazism was the birthplace of German oligarchic capital, and in Ukraine today's neo-Nazi freedom is the birthplace of Ukrainian oligarchic capital. Including those present at the oligarchy Hall funded its election, and this threat cannot be underestimated. In summary the results of the elections that have been held, it can be noted with full confidence that only two political forces have, in fact, come to the Supreme Council: the Right, composed of the Party of the Regions, the Strike, the Fatherskini and the neo-Nazi Freedoms, and the Left, represented by the Comparty of Ukraine. Naturally, the challenges that we are facing are very different from those that will address large capital in Parliament. The elections have passed, and all the hopes of the common people have disappeared, that the authorities will live up to their promises. As we Communists have warned, the auction of generosity ended on 28 October, and today it is said that prices and tariffs will rise. Once again, the people of Ukraine will bear all this burden of responsibility for coming out of the crisis. The oligarchs will, as before, withdraw their capital into off-shore areas. The company thanks all those who supported us in the elections, and declares that we will, in principle, defend the interests of the worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u9	Roman Zabzaluk, faction "BUT" - "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u10	Respectable compatriots! On behalf of our political power and our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, I want to thank all the citizens who have shown willful civil courage and, in their convincing majority, have voted for the united opposition and defend their will. The people of Ukraine made their choice. It was to the opposition political forces that the voters trusted their future and said no to the Party of the Regions. However, criminal oligarchy and its leaders, taking power in the country, brutally block the winners from the opposition in general and in the ranks of the majority constituencies. As a result, elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2012 became the most dirty of all the history of Ukraine's independence. The government has humiliated our country before the world community and has questioned Ukraine’s European future. Because this was long before the election began, the regime began to prepare for widespread falsification. The first thing the Party of Regions has done with Yanukovic is, in the meantime, the Constitution has usurped power and taken full control of the courts, the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, the Board of Directors, destroying the Constitution and the rule of law, and the regime has unlawfully abandoned the leader of the opposition forces of the country of Yulia Timoshenko and our associate Yuri Lucenka. During the election campaign itself, the regime applied unprecedented administrative pressure, counterfeiting, and bribery. Even so, it was not possible to stop the righteous judgment of the population handed down to these criminal occupiers. Thus, today the regime in its agony is open to falsifications in the calculation of votes in the KLA, including in the city of Kiev, Winnitsky, Mikolayivsky, Kyivsky, Cherkas region. As monetary courts deal with complaints by candidates in major districts, they make wrong decisions solely for the benefit of the overpowered candidates. Local government officials, the Berkut militia's gendarmerie units, and often the gangs, organized criminal groups take over the election boards, tear down their meetings, break up and destroy armored packets, spoil electoral ballots and protocols, or just kidnap them. The regional subversive parties ignore such brutal acts and become accomplices to crimes against the people of Ukraine. Here is the best illustration of the tools to achieve the victory of the so-called Party of Regions and their candidates in major districts. Metal rods and combat squadrons of turnarounds, as evidence, will be added along with numerous testimonies and video recordings by the commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The authorities of the Party of the Regions have tried to do everything they can to distort the will of citizens, to deprive the Ukrainian people of their basic right to choose and to choose, but they will not succeed, nor will they be able to intimidate the citizens of an independent state. The people of Ukraine know the true value of the promises of this authority and are ready to defend their choice and independence. We demand immediate removal of governors and criminal cases against KLA members, police officers who have directly participated in fraud and then crime. Any attempt by criminal occupiers to distort the selection of Ukrainians will be stopped. Glory to Ukraine! The people will win!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u11	The word is Arsenius Yatzenuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine is a nation's self-defence."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine! First of all, on behalf of the opposition, we would like to express our sincere thanks to millions of Ukrainians for not looking at the bribe, regardless of the intimidation, regardless of the pressure on government officials, teachers, doctors, ordinary people, you've come to the election. You voted, you supported the opposition! And they showed that in Ukraine today, opposition is supported much more than they support this so-called Party of Regions. And we thank you for that! As for the order of the day of Ukraine. The events of the last days have challenged not only the electoral process but the legitimacy of the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. And that is not just in Ukraine today. This is the issue in the world’s capitals and in our international partners. Unfortunately, in the last 10 days, the Party of Regions, the authorities and the President have done everything they can to get Ukraine back on the top of the world’s newspapers and the world’s first newsblocks. You don't know how to play, you don't know how to win. You've actually been trying to steal around 13 districts in the last 10 days. 13 districts where victory was given to opposition candidates. We believe that there is another wave of political crisis in the country. I'm not talking about the economic crisis that this government, this government, this President and this Prime Minister have caused. And so one of the first decisions to be made in the new Parliament is the resignation of both the government and the issue of the resignation of the current President. We would like to make it clear to President Yanukovic, to the Party of Regions and to all those who faked the election. First. It is not clear on what basis. The Supreme Council of Ukraine and personally the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine refused to register the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the investigation of falsification of elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2012. Here is a specific list of names and officials, starting with members of the VAT and KLA and ending with judges and prosecutors who faked the election. We demand an immediate investigation into the facts of falsification. The other one. We demand that the Central Election Commission review the statement made by three opposition parties, adopt the procedure for compiling the results of the vote, and announce in these districts the winners of the opposition, as confirmed by the minutes of the district election committees. Four. We demand a response from President Yanukovic of Ukraine. He must be a guarantor of the Constitution, not a guarantor of forgery. Mr. President, we understand that you are in Ukraine because President Komarovsky has called. The Ukrainian people will soon reach you. Stop the counterfeiting, stop the illegal electoral process, and return Ukraine to the European family, not where you are dragging it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. As for the claim that my address was about non-registration of the draft decree, I suggest you read what you sign. The Supreme Council cannot ask the Attorney General of Ukraine to put people in jail for six years and write a list. Add one more moment to that draft decision: form a trio that will judge people, and don't do anything stupid. But, dear colleagues, the problem is, there's a lot of suggestions about what needs to be reacted to by the Supreme Council, especially when it comes to counting votes in the so-called troubled districts. As I accumulate your moods and suggestions for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry, I suggest you, your opinion, Your Honor, listen, make such a decision now. It could be drafted by a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including that the Central Election Commission has adopted a decision that is totally inconsistent with the valid Law on Elections of People’s Deputies and with the authority of the Central Election Commission. In view of that, please listen. Some of them. The proposal to make such a decision in the form of a draft Decree on certain measures to determine the status of compliance with electoral legislation in individual one - time districts during the next election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the mixed socio-political assessment of the organization of the establishment of the results of the vote in the individual one-maned constituencies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. First. It is considered appropriate to establish a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of establishing the results of the election of Ukrainian national deputies in certain one-member constituencies. To this end, invite the heads of the MPs and the MPs to make proposals for the number and personal composition of this interim commission by 7 November 2012. The other one. Recommend that the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine carry out a review of the legality of the involvement of law enforcement officials in the maintenance of the rule of law in individual district and district election committees on the day of the vote and in the period of the calculation of the vote in individual one-member constituencies, as well as the conformity of the actions of law enforcement officials with the requirements of the law. The Supreme Council of Justice, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, to verify compliance with the oath by judges when they adopt their decisions during the election campaign. The Central Election Commission has repeatedly, I stress, again, in accordance with its mandate and the Law on Elections of People's Deputies to study materials on the establishment of the results of Ukraine's national election in the so-called troubled one-man election districts. Third. The General Prosecutor's Office, the High Council of Justice, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges and the Central Electoral Commission provide advance information on the issues noted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 9 November 2012. So these are all the questions we've been talking to you about. So I would like to support this decision. I'll put him to the vote. Please vote. [[10:31:31]] For 232 Decision taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, you had an offer, I've generalized it. You have to have some kind of reaction. Well, please, calm down, don't scream. Region Party – 161, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 1, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 24, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-fractional – 8. Ladies and gentlemen, the project is under review. Please, Klukkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u14	Vladimir Mikhailovich, reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, why do you continue to snag over your knee to break the Supreme Council? Because you've talked so much about protecting Parliamentarianism. You have made a decision out of hearing, and you have not even been able to discuss it. Notice, the point that concerns the activities of the prosecutor's office and others -- in fact, it justifies the violence that was committed in the constituencies and in the district election boards, and it translates responsibility to ordinary citizens. Read your suggestions, and they will now be related to your name. I urge you to put this decision to a vote in the first reading and allow it to be amended because it is in that way shameful.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u16	I give the floor to the national deputy Yacenjuk Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u17	Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u18	Dear Members of Parliament, I will tell you what is the fair purpose of this vote. Only one goal is to talk about counterfeiting. Clearly, the head of the Lithuanian Parliament and the ruling majority were frightened by the list of specific names that faked the election. They seem to be creating a commission of inquiry, knowing that this commission of inquiry will not even start its work, because this Parliament has actually died. So the purpose of taking this decision is to show that they seem to be fighting the forgeries that they have personally done. We insist on putting to the vote our decision, which has a clear list of both the name and the composition of the crime that was committed during the elections. Forgers have to be brought to criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u19	Dear people. I'll give it to you! The distinguished national deputies, who made a request to the faction, requested their representatives to be assigned to the commission of inquiry. I'm supporting you, I'm helping you with this. Now you're not getting what you're offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u20	Oleg Zarubinski. Calm down! Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, everyone understands that there is a limit to demagogies, a limit to populism, and there are boundaries and stupidities. Now, when a person who claims to do something, publishes it, deals openly with a fool, we have to talk about it. Notice, the deadlines are six years. So people who claim to be lawyers don't even look at the codex for five years. First. The other one. People who claim to be lawyers do not realize that the Supreme Council cannot perform a prosecutorial or judicial function. It's not her mission, it's another body's mission. That's the second fool. The third one's stupid. When without a trial, without an investigation, without a prosecutor and a lawyer, the name is called, and people are already accused -- that's the third fool and that's the homage of their children, in relation to their families, to people who are alive and who are human. The fool needs to be stopped, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u22	Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u23	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the Party of the Regions also commented on certain moments of the election campaign, both in the Communist Party and in the Reforms for the Future, and in other factions. That's why there's a sophisticated algorithm to figure it out. A TSC is established, a temporary investigation commission consisting of representatives of all political parties. It understands in detail, makes the relevant decision, we discuss it, we accept it, it is a civilized democratic procedure. The procedure for making comments and violations that have occurred have been excluded in the future from the electoral campaign to be held in five more constituencies. It is therefore not clear why the opposition did not vote in favour of the interim commission of inquiry. There's probably no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u24	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We voted in favour of this decision, we need to create an investigative commission. But we understand very well that falsifications didn't start yesterday before the Central Elections and not on the night of voting, they started when the heads of district administrations, district administrations, their deputies, heads of government instead of economics, organizations, were involved in "raping," open-ended "raping" and intimidating people, destroying human dignity. And so by supporting the idea by supporting the decision in the first reading, we should note that we must also consider the point of being involved in counterfeiting and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u26	Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u27	Oleg Lazko. A radical party. Dear voters, I voted in favour of creating a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council to investigate the facts of the abuses in the elections. Because of the dirty choices that have taken place in Ukraine today, I have not seen them in years. The full responsibility for falsifying the electoral process, including in the so-called troubled districts, lies with the Party of Regions, the authorities, they forged the elections. And I can't understand the leaders of the opposition who agree, go to the authorities' concessions and agree to the elections in these districts. Why the election in those districts where the opposition won? Let's run the elections in the districts where the authorities won, where they drew 80 percent of their votes, 100 percent of their turnout, there should be a re-election. And in those districts where the opposition won, the CLTC has to recognize the election results and sum up. But we're giving up the opposition again, we're agreeing again, let's go to the election. Guys.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the entire draft Ordinance on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of Public Shareholders of the State Land Bank. [[Registration number 11324-P]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Sas. The spokesman is the head of the Committee, Vladimir MacKeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u29	Thank you. National Deputy Sass, BUIT is Fatherland. I wanted to say two words about what had just happened. It is only at the suggestion of the Head of the Supreme Council that a commission of inquiry be established to investigate the so - called violations of the elections. For no one is a secret that has abused the power of the Party of Regions, forged the election of the Party of Regions, bribed the electorate, violated its members of the District Commissions and District Election Commissions, and now the CWC. And now they're going to be assigned to investigate their own violations. Clearly, what will be the result. That is why it is very clear that the draft decree that the Supreme Council must now consider is a draft decision to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the whole draft Ordinance on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of Public Shareholders of the State Land Bank. It is difficult to speak here because it was not accidental, but knowingly, according to the instructions of the majority. At that time, the chairman of the plenary session, Adam Martinyuk, violated everything that could have been violated by the Supreme Council. I'll talk about it a little bit later. And now, I just want to say the following, maybe not for this Supreme Council, but for the next. Dear colleagues, how can the Supreme Council of Ukraine require the enforcement of laws, how can it require the implementation of decisions of the Supreme Council to citizens and legal persons, if it violates all that can be violated when making decisions? Remember what you said in the election, that democracy is a procedure, and you are conscious.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u30	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u31	The essence of the bill being considered is to give our citizens a mechanism to steal the last one -- to steal the land. So we suggest that we cancel this decision, even though we realize that there is no way. Cynicism and the face of cynical authority are all about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u33	Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me have two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u34	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u35	is that, with one hand, it introduces a bill introducing a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land, and with another hand, it introduces a mechanism to steal land from citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u36	Committee head Vladimir Makeenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u37	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 2 November this year, the Committee considered a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the entire draft Decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of Public Shareholders of the State Land Bank by the number 11324-P of 17.10.2012, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sass, Sergey Vladimirovich, and his corresponding written statement in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvinamir Mihajlovich of 17 October this year. The Committee did not reach a conclusion on the appropriateness of the adoption or rejection by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the entire draft Decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Public Shareholders Association of the State Land Bank, number 11324-P. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, last time I asked you not to make such a hasty, unbalanced decision with a substantial and gross violation of legislation. I agree with author Sass that we made this decision prematurely. First of all, our committee, which had to consider the qualifications of the members of this important institution, never considered it, because we had a list at our meeting, which was exclusive to the Supreme Council. By law and by status, you know, a deputy can't be in an institution where there's a goal of profit. That is why we did not actually accept the decree. At 6 p.m., I think we've got a list of new candidates. In fact, none of us have seen their autobiography, and no one has appreciated the qualifications of these representatives. So I'm also going to ask you: let's cancel this decision, and the MPs will be calm, balanced about this question, and they'll actually select board members on a professional basis who have an impeccable reputation, who have a professional background in finance and credit. I'd like to remind you that statutory capital is formed in a bank to form the structure of this bank. We made it possible by law to create land. Please tell me how. What do we do next with that capital? Obviously, it will have to be sold and taken to form this structure. Please tell me, can you form a bank with such mistrust, with such subterfuge games and approaches in the middle of the night? So, venerable, banking institutions, that's trust, that's publicity, that's transparency. And that's why I'm asking you: let's back up and cancel this decision. The new deputies will approach and weigh and form a council on a professional basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to the discussion of the State Bank Act itself and then to say a few words about the Supervisory Board. As you will recall, when this bill was adopted, the United Opposition of Fatherland made it clear that the start of the sale of land was temporarily suspended in view of the electoral campaign. Today we're going to see if those billionaires, the candidates for MPs, and in the future, the MPs who went to the villages and said that we were ready to buy you a deputy mandate, and then we're going to buy the land for no price, or whether this is the strategy that we have today. has the authority to protect peasants and Ukrainian lands. What happened during the vote on the establishment of the Supervisory Board? This was very simple: the president's family was introduced into the supervisory board because, according to informed sources, land and its sales, it is the area of responsibility of people who work directly with the President and believe that it is possible to become rich on this topic. In fact, in the supervisory board of such a bank you have to select famous people who are known in agriculture, who are independent, who are authoritative people, I don't talk about any representation of opposition, not friends of the President's son, or the President should direct the sale of land. Have you read this Earth Bank Act? But under this law today, land can be taken captive without the consent of the people who gave the pies. Today, all the land in central Ukraine and all over Ukraine can be confiscated and reselled through the Earth Bank, where several people close to the President will do so. Once again, we are concerned that the second land bill took place with the support of one of Adam Martinyuk's Communist Party leaders. They say that together with us against the sale of land, decisions are taken with authority. I think it's a test vote, most of the Parliament for oligarchs or for peasants?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u42	Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I wish to speak on the decision-making procedure. The session hall is reviewing the law, we adopt it, we send it to the President, whether the President vetoes it, whether he makes comments, returns it to us. We are looking at the President's comments, we can agree, we can break the veto and so on. But we've introduced an interesting procedure, this is a know-how, which is boring to write, probably to put into the book of Ginness, you'll think about it, one week we're adopting 20-30 laws, and another week we're making 20-30 decrees and again to repeal those laws, yes. Well, it's just, well, unreasonable, irrational and ineffective use of our time and public money. When the law is under consideration, there must be arguments, there must be people in the room, comments, criticism, and the Chamber decides by vote. And so I repeat: one week -- we're passing the law, one week -- we're working in solitary, we're considering annulment orders. This has not been the case in any parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is over. May I have your attention, please? The draft Supreme Council Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the whole draft Decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of Public Shareholders of the State Land Bank. [[Registration number 11324-P]] [[10:50:40]] For-73 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions. The Regional Party is 0, "BUT" is 43, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 23, communists and the People's Party is 0, "Reforms for the Future" is 1, "non-factional" is 6. Dear National Deputies! The draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.10. On the 12th year of the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, as a whole, as a law. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin. Please. The co-narrator will be the chairman of the Committee of Vladimir MacKeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u45	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to stress that as long as everyone remembers the speech of the previous speaker, the speech was perfectly correct with colleague Sass about cancelling the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board. And in that decree, four men, from today's power and only one man, from opposition. And the question was perfectly fair. As a result, the law had been annulled. As far as the bill I report is concerned, this is Bill 10220. This is about the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of October 16 on the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts, which the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council has just referred to. I declare, and in the explanatory note on several sheets, I have given full justification that the decisions of the Supreme Council do not meet the requirements of the Constitution and the current legislation and are therefore illegal because they deprive the national deputies of Ukraine of their right to legislative initiative, which contravenes the requirements of article 30 of Part One, Part Three, Article 47, Article 89, Part Two, Articles 98, 117, 119, 120, 121, 123 and of the Supreme Council Rules Act. The decision was taken without a previous article discussion and without any discussion at all. This does not correspond to either the Rules or the Constitution. This decision, contrary to article 84, was voted "dead souls", not by MPs. I provide a complete list of people who have not been registered in writing, 76 from the Party of Regions and others. As far as the substance of this bill is concerned. There are colossal remarks that say what's actually happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u46	Yuri Anatolyovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u47	I'm done. As to the substance, it is in fact proposed to align the prescriptions of legislative acts with the prescriptions of sub-legislative acts in the form of presidential decrees, which define the structure of the central executive authorities and approve their position. It's been a long time, but it's a comeback. We have to make sure that they comply with the Constitution and the law. I demand that this decision be overturned. Otherwise, I will have to prepare for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u48	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u49	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! At the meeting of the Committee on 2 November this year, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts of the Ukrainian Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, other central executive bodies, whose activities are directed and coordinated by the relevant ministers, the State Committee of Television and Radio Broadcasting at number 10220 as a whole as a law in the first reading edition of number 10220-P of 16.10.2012, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Karmagin Jurij Anatoliovich. [[of 16.10.2012]] The author's introduction of the above-mentioned draft regulation is based on the fact that, in the course of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the bill, the procedure for the adoption of laws provided for in article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 30, 47, 89, 98, 117, 119 and other regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was violated. After considering the material on the matter, the transcript of the plenary session of October 16, this year, we note that Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich passed the prescribed draft decision without complying with the requirements of part three, sixth, of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The committee reached a conclusion on the draft regulation and found it inappropriate to consider the draft decision in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u50	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u51	Please give the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u52	Please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u53	Adam Ivanovich, Yuri Karmazin. Thank you to my colleague, Arjevitin. I am surprised that the Committee on Rules, MP ethics, has so highly appreciated my work that I have failed to do something. And I'd like to be on this committee. Mr. MacKeenko, this is the Constitution, this book, this is the Constitution that you've all trampled! This is the Constitution that you have returned, giving authority to Yanukovich today, for which no one has voted and no one has supported him. Even so, even in this Constitution, you must ensure that everyone votes in person. Thus, even this Constitution provides for proper consideration of the matter. This means that the MP has the right to legislative initiative. And if a single MP objects to the adoption of the law, it cannot be accepted. But you have another practice. You have another rule. You have other laws. And that's why, considering what's happening today in the state at all, as a smoke screen, about 15 of these districts, to cover up all the general forgeries in the state where you were able to raise the voter turnout from 46 percent to 65 percent, to the 70s, in separate districts by 99, in separate districts, you're conscious! Timishenko's in jail, and she realizes that you faked the election, and mass!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u54	Yuri Anatolyovich, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u55	I answer by subject, Adam Ivanovich. Well, now that you're touched, you know, it turns out I don't understand how to bring it in. It turns out that the regulatory committee understands and does not stop breaking the law. Thus, Adam Ivanovich, the practice of simultaneously amending a large number of legislative acts, is unacceptable. Under this law, 10220 are amended to 63 legislative acts!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u56	Thank you. The Fedun doesn't insist? I bet the vote on the proposal to adopt an order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.10.2012 on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10220-P]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:00:15]] For-23 The decision is not accepted. We are considering a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 October on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. Karmazin bill, registration number 10221. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich, let me speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the same was voted in favour of spending 993 million dollars on surveillance cameras. Did these surveillance cameras help to restore justice now? Where's the billion? I'm asking Shapoval: where's a billion? And I say that these are members of one organized criminal group that first removed some of the deputies from becoming candidates for the MP, which is one-ninth of the total. Then she made the commission, then she ran the election. So these laws, the adoption of laws in this way, this shows exactly the same style. And Project 10221 was adopted virtually the same as others had accepted: at all without consideration, without discussion at all, with violations of both the Rules and the Constitution in general. And what's more, it's totally not the regulatory committee's interest. Obviously, the Rules are something like this for him. Maybe then I'll remind him that 76 people are from the 76th Party of the Region. My name is Ahmtov, Bevizenko, Brežna, Bogoslovska, Borisov, Vasilski, Vejersko, Arkallaev, Bagraev, Barwinenko, Yankovsky, Yatzenko, Homutinnik and so on. They were not only absent in Kiev, but part of them in Ukraine, they voted in favour of the bill. I don't know if this is going to be an argument for our Constitutional Court, but I do recall that the same Constitutional Court, in its decision of 7 July 1998 in the case 1-19 of part three of article 84, spoke of the exercise of the popular vote as meaning its direct election irrespective of the voting method. That is, he has no right for other national MPs. So as this happens, selective application.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u58	Thank you. Please, Mr. MacKeenko Volodymyrovich is the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u59	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished National Deputies, at the meeting of the Committee on 2 November this year, discussed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.10.2012 on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, other central executive bodies whose activities are directed and coordinated by the relevant ministers, as well as the State Space Agency" with number 10221 as a whole, as a law in the first reading edition of number 10221-P of 16.10.2012, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Karmazin Jurij Anatolievich. The author’s introduction of the above-mentioned draft ruling is based on the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision on the bill violated the procedure for the adoption of laws provided for in article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 30, 47, 89, 98, 117, 119 and other regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After considering the material on the matter, the transcript of the plenary session of October 16, this year, we note that Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich issued the prescribed draft decision without complying with the requirements of part three, sixth, of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The committee reached a conclusion on the draft regulation and found it inappropriate to consider the draft decision in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u60	Thank you. Let's sign up for the performance. Please, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. What do we see here in the hall? In fact, the government delegates itself because it does not actually adhere to the rules that are fundamental to the existence of the State's presentational body. So we don't follow the Rules. Moreover, we emphasize cynically that we will not continue to adhere to this core document of the Supreme Council. If the question is that it can't be followed in principle -- it's like 226 votes for -- let's make a decision about the changes to the Constitution and we'll make a European rule that decisions are made according to most of the registered ones. It'll be perfectly normal, it'll make sense. And in this case, most people will always go to meetings of the Supreme Council, because in this case there might be a situation where more minorities will come and no decisions will be made by the majority. That makes sense. But you can't do what you do now, gentlemen. Because now you're actually spitting in the eye of the electorate. And these voters feel it. They're less and less trusting you, most of them. So far you're trying to scare them, and so far Donbas is voting for you. But you'll continue to be insulted simply and simply. Because you first violate the rules of the game established again by the Supreme Council. You can't do that. Let us make an example, even if we now vote in favour of revoking the decision taken in violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u62	Fedun doesn't insist. Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u63	Please give Oleg the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u64	Please pass on the word Laško.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u65	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would like to address my colleague, Mr. MacKeenko Vladimir Vladimirovich, the head of the regulatory committee, whom I respect and respect, but I disagree with you. When you say that our colleague Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin is either unaware of the Rules or misprepared the legislative act, I think that Carmazin could teach two thirds of the deputies how to write laws here, as a minimum. Because half of the Supreme Council has not passed any law in five years, it has never left Parliament’s rostrum. And Carmazin is a living, walking legend of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. And the shame and shame that the Party of Regions, controlled by them, has prevented Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin from going to the next election. If there were at least a dozen of the highest professionals like Carmazin in the Supreme Council, and the quality of the bill would be different, and people would live differently. All they get is pensions, and Carmazin smells for all of you. And you, instead of putting him in the hands of the Supreme Council to keep him working for you, didn't let him join the Supreme Council at all. And that's why I hope, Yuri Anatoliyovich, that at the next election that will take place in Ukraine, you will win 90 percent and return to the hall again. Because, unfortunately, professionals like Carmazin, God forbid there should be such people in every parliament. As far as the substance of the bill is concerned. I think we need to radically reduce the number of public authorities. It's radical! Today, there are 500,000 officials in Ukraine, of whom 200,000 are pensioners. Our electors, good people, their children, and they can't have their children anywhere. At best, they're trading in the market, in the worst, they're sitting at home without a job. And at every meeting, I got 50,000 votes in my 208th district, and at every meeting, people asked me where to find our kids a job. And we have hundreds of thousands of pensioners getting paid, getting a pension, and sitting there doing nothing. So we suggest, the Radical Party, a radical reduction in the number of civil servants.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u66	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u67	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support the decree on repealing the law. But I took the floor to make one, from my point of view, an extremely important observation, which is what. I remember very well these four laws, which are now in order of the day and which are written by Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. And I remember that before the vote on the first reading, I had a conversation with him, and I was saying then, Yuri Romanovich, and I am repeating this now. I respect him as a national MP, and I respect him as the representative of the President of Ukraine in this room. But those bills that he has tabled four, which now, by which the decrees are to be repealed, these bills are to be submitted, not by the Ukrainian National Deputy, and not even by the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, but either by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, or by the President, because they regulate the activities of ministries and offices. Because I remember very well that when we were sitting on a committee on pensioners, veterans, and invalids, we were distributing these bills with our hands, which is the first time that they had seen this document. And they're very important because they regulate the activities of ministries and departments. I would like to stress once again how, let's say, the proposal for future colleagues is that there are areas of activity where the main bills are to be submitted either by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or by the President. And so, I think, similar bills should be submitted on behalf of the people's deputies or even to the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, well, inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u68	Yes, please, one minute, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I fully agree with the leader of one of the parties who said that our cut-off opposition, instead of letting Jury Carmazin put it on his hands, in the first rows of lists to the Supreme Council, did not even include it. It's a disgrace to the opposition, he's right, absolutely! Who did they include? They've included dragons who fight at polling stations, and who I think will fight here. It's a disgrace to the country. The leader of the party and his rights had rightly said that, in the second instance, it was necessary to de-bureaucratize the governance system and that it was the laws that wanted to be repealed that were aimed at de-bureaucratization, the laws of administrative reform. And we got them right on the block. And the last. I think the opposition colleagues are starting to understand the essence of the issue, and now they are, I see, in a constructive manner and they will support me. At best, tens of two of the opposition will vote in favour of this, almost false paper, called a decree, and all the others will support us and will not vote. I address the opposition, thank you in advance for your maximum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u70	Question completed. I am voting on the draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 October 2012 on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine as a whole. [[Registration number 10221-P]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:14:01]] For-24 The factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, BUT 13, Our Ukraine 9, the Communists, the People's Party, Reform for the Future, did not vote, the non-fractional two. We are considering the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.10. 12th year on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in general as a Law. [[Registration number 10222-P]] Reports Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Get ready for MacKeenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. Dear National Deputies! I didn't take the line, Reverend Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, I don't need your protection, thank you. I'd like to tell a colleague of mine who was speaking under the previous law. Dear colleague, you said that Donbass voters support the ruling party or the ruling coalition. You're wrong, I want to tell you, because here I have a statement by the head of the election committee in the pre-Denmark constituency 59, there was a representative from the opposition of Prilepski. So just so you know, the turnout that was in the district at the time of the closure was 46 percent. Then, suddenly, the region of Velionovasilov, 50 plots, provided 83 percent. Consider, please, the Ukrainian people, 83 percent, 90 percent, 97 percent, and so are the data. They're right in front of me. And you call that what they support? This suggests a factory. And here's a speech to Chief Catherine Volodymyrna's attorney from the strike party, who was the head of the election committee, who said they came to her and told her to come.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u72	Yuri Anatolyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u73	I didn't come on that day. So it's... it's...
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u74	You have a bill for the Ministry of Agrarian Politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u75	But here I was told that something was wrong. So I'm just explaining how it really is. In fact, George Carmazin filed a statement with the Head of the Supreme Council that several laws had been adopted incorrectly and had given a separate decree and a separate explanatory note to each of them. Including this bill, 10222, I wrote that the development of Ukrainian legislation on central and local executive authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u76	Sign up for the performance. No, Yuri Anatolyevich, you abuse your right. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u77	Please give the floor to Karmazin, he hasn't finished his sentence yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u78	Please, Carmazin can last for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u79	Adam Ivanovich, thanks to his colleague Arjevetina, is a true companion and a true opponent. And I want you to know that I'm still going to prove my point to people. So, just so you know, the development of legislation on central and local executives has to take account of the rule of law principle as an act that has higher legal power in the regulatory system. This approach stems from the content of the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution, according to which state authority in Ukraine is exercised on the basis of its division into legislative, executive and court. The legislative, executive and judicial authorities exercise their powers within the limits established by this Constitution and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. So, dear friends, this is exactly what we need to understand because this is where the provisions of part three of article 106 of the Constitution, according to which the President of Ukraine issues decrees and orders based on and for the implementation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. But to impose laws, laws, think, under every decree, every order of the President is theoretically wrong. I want the leaders of the Supreme Council to realize this: Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, Adam Ivanovich, how many years do I have to lecture you about the rule of law, the rule of the Constitution and the law. But I still can't give you a threesome. I'll see how much the Ukrainian people will put you in, and then history will tell you. But please, I have blood on my heart when you take it every day to rape the Constitution. You think I had nothing to do with what I wrote those decrees and reasoned. I want to show you that you can't do that. I want to show the Rules Committee, which you don't have, you don't get the money in vain for all the members of the committee except for Sass. I didn't spend a penny on a train or a plane, and you spend it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u80	Yuri Anatolyevich, you wrote because you were asked to write is one thing. Don't make me tell you what happened. And second of all, we've already been graded. Fedun, don't you think? Yes, then I am putting to the vote a draft decree repealing the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 October this year on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the activities of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food, the Ministry of Social Policy, other central executive bodies whose activities are directed and coordinated by the relevant ministers. As a matter of fact, registration number 10222. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:33]] For-16 It's not yours yet, is it, Yuri Anatolyovich? A draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 October on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine is under consideration, as a whole, as a law, registration number 10223-P. Reports Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has also been passed in exactly the same way and has also been voted in violation of the Constitution, violation of the Law on Rules, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies. But it's different. I'd like to talk now about the activities of those ministries, and here are finance, economic development and trade, and other bodies. And there's talk of people out there in the East being supported by voters. 10,000 people are meeting on Sunday where? In Mariupola! And they're protesting that Austall and the Illich Congregation are poisoning and destroying our Ukrainian people. Pshonka’s attorney - general does not violate a criminal case based on these facts. What's the point? I refer once again to the Attorney General of Ukraine: the Honourable Victor Pavlovich, in this place there is annihilation of people, a mere extermination. If ten thousand people went up, you believe that 80 percent of them voted for a party of regions that destroys them right there because the owners are sitting in this faction right here in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u82	Yuri Anatoliyovich, Yuri Anatoliyevich, is closer to the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u83	I understand, Adam Ivanovich, that you don't like it, it's not on the subject, Adam Ivanovich. But we're talking about the Ministry of Finance, which is now against the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u84	What's the prosecutor's problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u85	Despite the State Budget Act, Ukraine has already received state guarantees, plus 80 billion dollars by last year, plus. And we're not on the subject? We do not consider any questions on the subject. It's because we want to please someone. Because of this, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, I want to remind you that you represent a faction of Communists. And the Communist faction says it's against the oligarchs, the Communist faction says it's for short.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u86	Please sign in. Too bad you didn't tell me much about the faction. Fedun doesn't insist. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u87	Let me finish with Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u88	Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you, colleague of Arjevitina. He was familiar with the documents on the production of elections throughout Ukraine, not just. And by the bribe of voters, not just in separate districts, on the 15th that the question is now being asked. And I would like to point out that the factory started when Timoshenko and Lucenka didn't include the first numbers, as they looked at, actually canceled the list, the list that was approved by the Parenthood Party, though it did. There's a lot of questions for him, but Timoshenko, Lucenko was supposed to be the first. I'm finishing up a question that has an extraordinary weight. It's about what's going on in Mariupola. The number of cancers, cardiovascular diseases and lung diseases among the city's inhabitants is on the rise. Now the city of Mariupol in the Donetsk region takes second place in environmental problems to Chernobyl! Think about it, please! And what, they're gonna vote for their killers? There's fake election material. Totally. The observers are silent. They can't see. No one can see. Ten thousand people have risen. You don't see them either! As you can't see or hear, Karmazin is trying to prove to you that you don't have to violate the Constitution. So, reverend, the smell of air that is in Mariupol is about 200 days a year, when doctors did not recommend that people be in the open air, when doctors recommend that they go out in the ventilators and close their skins and so on. It's a half a million-dollar city. It's pollution from the sea. It's pollution. Only because our oligarch turned out to be ahead of Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u90	At the end of the day, you begin to speak correctly. But it's over. The draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 October on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine as a whole. [[Registration number 10223-p]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:26:53]] For-21 The offer is not supported. Let's move on to "Inclusion in the agenda of the day session." It is up to the vote to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the operation of the wholesale electricity market. [[Registration number 11393]] Please vote. [[11:27:29]] For 232 Decision supported. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products and other legislative acts to strengthen measures to combat the falsification of dairy products. [[Registration number 11177]] Please vote. [[11:28:04]] For 267 A decision has been made. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda of the daily session drafts of the Law on the Conservation of Grounds and the Protection of Their Fertility. [[Registration number 11234 and 11234-d]] Please vote. [[11:28:35]] For 236 It's on. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the preservation of the ground cover. [[the fertile layer of soil]] [[Registration number 11231]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:29:07]] For 233 A decision has been made. The proposal to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[on the financing of the JCC Reform Program]] [[Registration number 11207]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:29:40]] For 238. A decision has been made. The proposal to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[on the redistribution between monetary development programmes]] [[Registration number 11389]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:30:16.]] For 236 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 11304]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:30:45.]] For 236 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the purchase of works related to the operation of the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 11386]] Please vote. [[11:31:20]] For 263 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring legislation into line with the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 11355]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:31:52]] For 239. A decision has been made. The proposal to include the draft Amnesty Act in the agenda of the day session is put to the vote in 2012. [[Registration numbers 11289, 11289-1]] I'd like to make up my mind. When we consider and discuss. Take down the vote. Well, they insist on discussing it. Yes, please, the Cabinet Bill has no one to report. Yes, the Yatsenuk bill, please. None. Sign up for the discussion. Please, Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u91	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT - "Fatherhood", Equality. Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! Of the 19 we already have a new Code of Criminal Procedure, which was called progressive. Which has actually decriminalized more than 16 articles, including in relation to smuggling, counterfeiting of money signs, the possibilities of offshoring in Ukraine and so forth. But nevertheless, the basic position that the Council of Europe referred to, the whole world co-operation -- namely, the decriminalization of articles 364 and 365 -- was not taken into account and introduced in this code. That is what today is behind the illegal condemnation of the leader of the Ukrainian nation, Yulia Timoshenko, the leader of the opposition, Yuri Lucenka, and others who today are subject to criminal persecution. At the same time, given that there have been massive, systematic falsifications of elections in Ukraine in favor of the Party of Regions, why there is evidence. Even in the Plainsland, which is not an electrically sympathetic to the Party of the Regions, such productions were made with signatures, seals, and all props, where the numbers for the Party of the Regions were placed on the knee alone or for overpowered candidates. I want to remind those people that they also fall within the scope of the article, where the excess of power, the 366th is the forgery of documents, and the 158th is directly related to the falsification of elections. That's why I think I'm talking to everyone. Let's bring it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u92	Grivkowski, please. We need to talk about it, not tell you what you want. Okay, next time you sign up. Grivkowski, isn't he insisting? Fedun doesn't insist. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin. Colleague Prokopchuk has stopped at the fact that 158 articles should address criminal cases in each of the cases he has shown, and many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, and many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, And so it took a few minutes to turn off the light in order to change it to early ones. That's why the light was turned off. I'm not talking about other fakes. So this law needs to be made clear. First of all, I'd like to ask you to support Arsenius Yatsenuk's bill. First. Here he also belongs to those persons who were recognized as disabled by the first, third or third groups who were infected with active tuberculosis or hepatitis C, who brought Yuri Lucenka to places where she was deprived of her will. And obviously this theft must be investigated. Evidently, amnesty must be applied to political prisoners who did not commit any crime. Perhaps this will resolve your hands and make you, your respected colleagues, traveling to European countries, to the United States of America, where the elections are now being held and are also being decided in a sense by the fate of Ukraine. Because of this, based on the principle of humanism, I think that after criminal cases have been committed, those who have given the team the opportunity to falsify elections all over the country of Ukraine may also be offered an amnesty in a year from now, but not as political prisoners, but as those who have been forced to carry out manifestly illegal orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u94	The proposal to include the draft Amnesty Act in the agenda of the day session is put to the vote in 2012. [[Registration numbers 11289, 11289-1]] I'd like to make up my mind. Both. [[11:38:21]] For 262 Included in the agenda. The laws are both because they're alternative. There is a proposal to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on informing the population about the content in food products of genetically modified organisms. [[Registration number 11299]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:39:00]] For 228 Decision taken. A proposal is made to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Act amending article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on general government pension insurance. [[on the calculation and recalculation of pensions]] [[Registration number 11316]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:39:34]] For-56 Not included in the agenda. A proposal is put to the vote: to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Supervisory in the Field of Economic Activity on the Limitation of Intervention in the Activities of Owners. [[Registration number 11351]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:11]] For 226 Decision taken. A proposal is put to the vote: to include in the agenda the bill on metrology and metrology. [[Registration number 11369]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:40]] For 237 Decision taken. The proposal is put to the vote: to include in the agenda of the day the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children. [[on State support for children]] [[Registration number 11383]] Please vote. [[11:41:12]] For 265 A decision has been made. The proposal is put to the vote: to include in the agenda of the day a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on excise duties on substances used as components of motor fuels. [[Registration number 11395]] Please vote. [[11:41:48]] For 260 Decision taken. And it is up to the vote to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on the financing of the differences in fuel tariffs for the population]] [[Registration number 11396]] Please vote. [[11:42:22]] For 263 Thank you, the decision is made. I'd like to ask the committees of profile that are related to those bills that we have now included in the agenda of the day to prepare for their consideration, if possible. If the committees consider it, we will consider this bill at the evening session. And since the bill is included, but it's technically out of the question, I'd like to ask the committee to prepare for the evening meeting. He passed the committee, but to be prepared for consideration, Bill 11121 of the Bill amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[establishing a ban on the pricing of goods, jobs and services in Ukraine]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u95	It's a budget, Adam Ivanovich! What do you mean after lunch? It's a budget! Do you understand? That's what we need, Minfin, experts. What are you?Oh, my
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u96	It's Kabmin's bill, so it's all there, the conclusion is. Let's go over the bills to the second reading. We are considering a draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 11335]] Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Maceinko Volodymyr Vladimir Volodymyrovich. You don't? Where's the reporter? Well, he just reported the bills. So let's do it then. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u97	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! On 16 October 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation 11335 and entrusted the Committee on Rules, Deputies of Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the task of drafting the bill. Taking into account the comments and suggestions made by legal entities and introducing them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. At its meeting on November 2, 2012, the Committee considered proposals by legal entities that, in accordance with the requirements of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will end on October 30, this year. These are the proposals made by the national deputies of the Ukraine of Sasa, Karmazin, Knazevitch, Hanushtak, MacKeenka, Chaplinianka, who came to the committee in the established period. At the same time, we note that the comparative table does not include a proposal from the Ukrainian National MP, because it came to the committee two days after the deadline for making proposals. In all, 48 suggestions were made to the comparative table of the draft draft for the second reading, including 18, 30 were rejected. It should be noted that most of the rejected proposals are taken into account in an editorial way. In addition, the order of delegation of Ukrainian national deputies to a preparatory parliamentary group is proposed, taking into account the principle of the participation of Ukrainian national deputies elected in one-maned districts, who have registered candidates for the appointment by themselves. There is also an arrangement for the temporary presidency of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and so forth. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules at number 11335 on second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u99	Yes, dear colleagues, let's follow the amendments. Yes, 1 amendment is included. Don't insist. It's a two-pointer, McKeenka. 3 revisions. Counted. 4th Amendment. Counted. Makinka. Knazevitch. 5th. Are you insisting? No, it's not. None. Knyazevich, 6th. Sass, 7th. Don't insist. Gnawstack, 8th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, look what's proposed in the bill. The draft law proposes that the delegation of representatives be held in the congregations of the respective national deputies, who shall be convened by the head of the appropriate council no later than five days after the publication, from the administrators. What is it? Which includes the mechanism that we say is "administrative uterus" subordination, the Supreme Council of the Mountain, and below the area, even below the city and so on. This is contrary to the Constitution. There can be no other organ, either a district, or a city, or anyone there, to intervene even in procedural matters involving the formation of an organ. So I suggested a procedure of another plan, which is defined by the region as such.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u101	Right. What's the committee on this? Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u102	The committee rejected the amendment in accordance with the Ukrainian Central Election Commission Act. The mandate of the Central Electoral Commission does not include drawing lots for the delegation of newly elected national deputies to a preparatory parliamentary group. In addition, the application of the wording of the name of the public authority of CEC in legislation is not permitted. This is about the 8th amendment, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u103	8 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:49:20]] For-12.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u104	For 12. The amendment is not accepted. Now Ruslan Knyazevich, 9th Amendment, insists on it? No, it's not. 10th. Don't insist. 11 readjustments included. Is there no objection? Let's move on. 13th, Makeenka. Declined. None. The prince, more precisely, rejected, 14th. 15th, Sass Sergei. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u105	Thank you. I propose in paragraph 5, paragraph 2, the words "political parties which, as a result of the election of national MPs, have participated in the distribution of parliamentary mandates" should be replaced by the words "political parties whose electoral lists have been allocated to MPs." Such a legal position is in line with the Electoral Law. And I am surprised to see that this proposal is not supported in this article and in others, even though it answers. Just like everyone else. I would like to pay attention to both the heads of the committee, and you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, all the proposals against opposition in this law have been rejected. Did the fools here themselves gather in opposition that they couldn't formulate a normal proposal? Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u106	Puts to the vote 15 amendments. [[11:51:18]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I draw your attention to the fact and to what Sergey Sas said, because these are the changes proposed under the current political situation. It's written: the representatives are in. six national deputies according to the factions represented today in the Supreme Council. What about the next Supreme Council? We're writing at the same time. Knyazevich, the 18th Amendment doesn't insist. Yes, Sas Sergey 22 is correct. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u107	Here the authors rejected the proposal to make changes to article 22 of the Rules. What's happening now is I wanted to remind you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, including you. The Supreme Council apparatus, if the draft law is not put into the agenda, considers it rejected and cannot be introduced at this session. Although the rules provide for another rule that provides that only the result of consideration can essentially reject a certain bill. Considering that there was a mixed treatment of the 22 - article rule, I made suggestions on the possibility of one - third making proposals to the agenda. But they feel that these things are unnecessary and have been removed from the bill by article 22. I think it's wrong, and so I'm asking you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u108	Amendment 22 shall be put to the vote. [[author - Sergei Sas]] [[11:53:22]] Z-11. Correction not supported. Carmazine, 23rd Amendment. Is she insisting on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to support my amendment to paragraph 8. I would suggest that this item should be deleted by renumbering as follows: the first part of the 58th is worded as "deputy factions are formed on a party basis." Dear fellow MPs! Dear voters! I would like to draw your attention to this article. My proposal is that in the election the lists are formed from party and non-party citizens, and the text of this article states that if a non-member citizen is elected as a member of this party, he cannot be a member of this faction, it is a narrowing of rights and a selective approach. How can I be today to those majority deputies who will be elected, who represent other political forces when they do not want to join the faction created on the party side.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u110	Yes, there are 23 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:54:54]] For-7. Correction not accepted. Hanushtak, 24th Amendment, Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen! The pride of Yuri. Well, look, the primary rule indicated that the faction formed if not less than 15 men. They threw it out, and there's a party base left. I have a question for the Chief: do you have two men from the Party, so the faction forms separately? According to what's left, the faction of the Radical Party and so on and so forth. And that's how much. The following positions indicate that the MPs should be no less than the smallest faction, which means that we have factions in general that there will be no such factions. One MP at a time, and that's a faction. I mean, I want to hear a more or less logical formulation, which is the minimum quantity that makes sense of what you're proposing. Because if you get out of the logic of what was voted in the first reading, you get out of the smallest political party that's already here in the hall, and that's the Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u112	Please, head of the committee. He'll answer you right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u113	Dear national deputy Hanusztak, all of these discussions took place on the committee not for two weeks. Now, if you want your offer, put it in the hall and put it to the vote. Because we already have a vote. There was the first reading, the second reading is now under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u114	Amendment 24 shall be put to the vote. [[11:57:00]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 25 amendments, the author does not insist. Sergey Sass, 26th Amendment, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u115	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." The substance of the amendment is to ensure that the MPs are formed on a party basis by national MPs elected from political parties among the electoral lists that are allocated parliamentary mandates and elected in many mandated districts. Well, authors. The authors, well, the authorities certainly suggest that factions can function on a party basis. The answers to what a party base is, there's no party base, there's no party base, so it's clear what's going to happen. Well, in fact, the party base is those who have gone through the lists and are party members, they're part of the factions. And those who aren't party members don't go in there, or should join the party, I understand. But in other circumstances, this is done so that the carcases that are to be picked up, all the others — who fell into the faction — could be part of the faction. So I propose to write as provided for by the Elections Act, I have made my proposal very clear, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, there are 26 amendments to the vote. Please make a decision. [[11:58:33]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Sergei Sas, 28 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u117	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." Well, given that another concept of minimum fraction formation has been chosen here in the law, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the first reading did not address the issue of introduction to article 16. I do not know how this proposal for second reading came about, but I would like to explain it to the chairman of the committee. On what basis? changes have been made to articles that were not considered in the first reading. I mean, once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, article 16 on the schedule for the consideration of issues by the Supreme Council at its first meeting. I'd like to be explained. And exclude this particular article from the bill because it is a violation of the Rules. Article 116 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u118	You're not talking about 28 amendments right now. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u119	I told you about her, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The point is that the bill has chosen another concept of creating a minimum number of factions. So I proposed 15, now it's proposed. The faction will be formed by the smallest number to the Supreme Council, there are 32 people. And I was just pointing out a violation of 116. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, stop this violation and delete the changes that were made in the second reading, not the subject of the first, from the content of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u120	Thank you. Let's put it this way: the 28th amendment first. The 28th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[12:00:47]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Now, honourable colleagues, regarding the order of the first establishment. the first sitting. I agree with you absolutely, and I've told this to both the authors and the authors of this document that they wrote in there. First, the new Head of the Supreme Council is elected, and then the previous one comes out and tells of the state of legislative work in the Ukrainian Parliament, Ukraine. But they're cornered and they think they're right here. Well, let's keep it going! Or the president's coming out. There is no Head of the newly elected Supreme Council, and he is speaking with a letter to the Supreme Council. Unformed factions, not formed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who is the President speaking to? In front of the people's deputies? But you're on the committee, take care of yourself. Yes, 29 revisions. Doesn't Knyazevitch insist? No, it's not. Carmazine, 31. What's that? 30 repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u121	31 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u122	Just a minute. Sas, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Deputy Sass, "BUT is the Fatherland." I ask for confirmation of the amendment 30 by Vladimir Makeenka, which defines the way in which the MPs are formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, this amendment is included. The point is that the number of persons in the parliamentary group cannot be less than the number of persons in the smallest fraction formed during the first session, that is, 35, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u125	32.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u126	32. Well, it's clear that it will never be formed. I would like to vote on the proposal to confirm this amendment. Please vote. [[12:02:58]] For 243 Decision taken. So the amendment is confirmed. Amendment 31, Yuri Carmazin. Please. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to conclude this consideration and then announce a recess. No objections? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, think about what you voted for. What if two men passed the party, they're going to create a faction? Because of this, you know, it's not serious, like 35, it's not serious what you're doing right now, and you're trying to drive everyone away. And including, right now, you're influencing people's choices in majority. Now you're driving them away. Now you're showing them in. Everybody. All right, your independence is over. Because of this, this rule is completely unconstitutional. I would like to go back to the practice that once existed in Parliament and write in paragraph 6 of paragraph 9 the words, "the number below the number of the parliamentary faction" are replaced by the numbers and the words "15 people." You remember that we had both 14 and 15, and that would be a valid number. This proposal is made in view of the totally groundless amount that is currently being recorded, and this could lead to abuse and conflict in practice and distortion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, Amendments 31 and 32 are identical. So now we're going to see how they're going to vote on 31 amendments. I'm putting her to a vote. [[12:04:48]] For-21 No correction supported. The 32nd is identical. Ruslan Knazevich. None. Sergei Sass, 34th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Deputy Sass, "BUT is the Fatherland." In principle, it's just been confirmed about the number of factions, but, Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, I would like to support you on Article 16 in accordance with the 116th Rules. Indeed, we would like to create a field when the President of Ukraine is here not before the Supreme Council, but before the people gathered here. That's the first one. I also support information on the political situation reported by the Chief of Staff of the Prior Council. I understand that most of the people who are here in this room are going to make any kind of decision. Do you understand? But you need to think, Your Honor, not just do what you've been told. Is it common sense for people to push these buttons here? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u130	The 34th Amendment votes. [[12:06:14]] For-7. Amendment 35, Ganushtzak. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u131	Jury's shame, Fatherland, and still Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the most important thing that we need to determine how the MP faction differs from the group. The MPs have no political colour. That is why my amendment indicates that the group cannot make political statements. That's how we have the break going there, early in the plenary week. Or there, let's say, anything about political issues. So my amendment just points to this critical boundary that distinguishes the faction. So this is the position of the electorate, the political position of the electorate. And so the position, which is the swamp, is the non-fractional position that has not formed its political opinion. So they can't make political statements. They can perform in amendments. They can do everything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u132	35 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[12:07:46]] For -6 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 37, Yuri Ganustak, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u133	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Our fatherland is alone. And that's why I'm asking you to protect the future head of Parliament. Why? Because the head of Parliament must be a position that is stable enough. It must enter the so-called loop of histeresis, hard to enter, but hard to get out. And so voting through ballots, that's perfectly logical. Because if you vote by name here, we around the Rules have to state that all the other candidates vote by name. Because, well, let's be respectful. It's the third, if not the first, well, let's say, maybe not the first, but not the second position in this state. Let's still respect us. Because once you say "name," that means there's no parliament! He's been gone for a long time intellectually. But we destroy ourselves as an organ. If we're the head.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, there are 37 amendments to the vote. [[12:09:24]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. Sergei Sas, 39th Amendment. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u135	Yes, of course. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in this case, I would like most to pay attention to the proposal of legal administration. It's a question of responding to the signatures when initiating the recall of the Supreme Council. What do I mean? The complete system of legislation is being touched. That is, the Rules also provide for the Constitution of the Assembly of Signatures when initiating consideration of a number of issues, including meetings from outside sessions, outside meetings, and consideration of the issue of the President’s impeachment. In this case, what is done? What to call off signatures at a meeting. In some cases, it is not possible to take the initiative to deal with these issues, and in other cases it is not possible to do so. These are abnormal phenomena. Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, why is this written in this way? In some cases it is necessary when the prosecutor and everyone else, and in other cases when the President is no longer allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u136	Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u137	It was a proposal from our national deputies, members of the regulatory committee. The Supreme Council in its first reading supported their proposal, so it remained for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u138	39 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[12:11:23]] For the No correction supported. 40 revisions. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose in paragraph 4 of paragraph 12 the deletion of the words "which may only be called back to the inclusion of the matter in the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." The language is, the honourable national MPs and the honourable voters, the withdrawal of signatures, because if at least one third of the constituencies of the MPs are given, they give signed letters and then they can all of a sudden cancel. Let's see what the Constitutional Court of Ukraine thinks about this. And the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its decision of 24 December 1997, says that there is no definition and therefore the application of this institution, contrary to the constitutional principle of the rule of law, it considers this. That's why I'm suggesting that you clear those words because the shit is happening -- the President's impeachment is being initiated -- you can't cancel the signatures, in turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u140	40 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[12:12:55]] For the The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 42. Sergei Sass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u141	Thank you. Well, once again, it's only about other officials when the signatures are canceled. In this case, this refers to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council, the judges of the Constitutional Court, the members of the High Council of Justice. Well, I'm already going to quote the conclusions of the legal department. "The position of Article 208 creates disagreements between the provisions of the Rules, because*** specifies the institution of signatures proposed to be revoked in the context of the procedures concerning the Head of Parliament, the Authorized Prosecutor-General. Rather, similar procedures have to do with the process of amending the Constitution of Ukraine, removing the President from office, parliamentary control over government activities, and so forth. So when do we learn to be systematic about law-making? Dear colleagues, well, it's absolute senselessness and nonsense. Alexander Sergiyovich, I understand how pleasant it is to talk to Oliynik. He's a famous lawyer there. Well, look at all these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u142	An amendment shall be put to the vote. Dear colleagues, before putting 42 amendments to the vote, I will quote this: with regard to discharge from the post of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Which can also be implemented at the request of at least one fourth of the deputies from the constitutional foundation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine according to their signatures. The question is, Why do this? Well, he can't work with the Supreme Council of Ukraine on call. So what's the load? The criticism will be complete, if not in Ukraine, beyond it. Let's see if we can rule out the Commissioner. Well, there were 150 signatures, whatever. Now you need 120 on the Authorized. I'm voting on amendment 42, Sergei Sasa. I'd like to take into account what I just said. [[12:15:25]] For-25 It's not working. It's Yuri Carmazin's 43rd amendment. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the deletion of the sentence of paragraph 3 of paragraph 2 of paragraph 16, which states: "To include the issue in the agenda of the day session, the signatures of the national deputies must be revoked." This is about the dismissal of the former, except for the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the members of the Supreme Council of Justice. Because, as my colleague Sas has said, as evidenced by the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, as the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly stressed in its decisions, this will contribute to political corruption, I am already defining it. Because by making a fragmented change to the Rules of Procedure Act, we'd better take a closer look at the situation of ending the dissolution of the state and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u144	Amendment 43 shall be put to the vote. [[12:16:58]] For -6 Correction not supported. Sergei Sas, 45th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u145	Thank you. Deputy Sas, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I fully support what Comrade Carmazin said. Now, this proposal that's been made, it gives rise to double corruption. On the one hand, the signatures were collected by the Attorney General in this case. If you have to call it off, please, the Attorney General has enough weight to influence individual deputies. On the other hand, another corruption. They're collecting signatures for me to agree to withdraw if the Attorney General or the lead structure does certain things. This is absolute political corruption, fellow believers! Stop it until it's too late! If you're going this way, we're going to come back to what's in nowhere, we're going to come to absurdity. Perhaps we can understand where we came from!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u146	Amendment 45 shall be put to the vote. [[12:18:24]] Z-11. Correction not supported. Yuri Carmazin, please, 46 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider. You have now ignored the proposal made by Sasa's deputy to remove paragraph 17 altogether. I have a less radical offer. I propose that the second paragraph of paragraph 17 be deleted. This suggests that if you have collected 150 signatures of mistrust from the Attorney General of Ukraine, you have already gathered, have the courage, to continue to consider the matter. Otherwise, it's going to be viewed as blackmail and it's already been considered, there have been such cases in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, in paws. And then what we're writing down, what we might call off, if you'll excuse me, well then you should say that these aren't the national MPs who gave their word here, they took back here, they're probably political prostitutes. So that's what we're going to call that from this point on, from the feedback, because these people are called "political prostitutes," so let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u148	Yes, there are 46 amendments to the vote. [[12:19:59]] For-7. No correction supported. Thus, the distinguished national MPs, all the amendments taken into account. The committee proposes to accept it in the second reading and in general, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has made a number of observations to this document, and would like to have this in mind. I'll bet you a vote. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u149	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to give the floor to the head of the committee of legal policy, Sergio Mishchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u150	Please, Sergey Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, you know, if we adopt this bill today, the system in which the MPs were elected in the one-maned districts, the next call, would be illegal at all. Well, what we can't be in the interim is, but, God be with her, with this temporary presidency. But the fact that I'm a national deputy major, I can't be not only the head of the committee, but I can't even get in, not a committee, not a temporary commission at all. Moreover, I was deprived of the right, which, in principle, was not before that I had no right to speak on any matter but on my own drafts. Who is this major who can't stand up for his rights and discuss issues? What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I can only demonstrate solidarity with Sergei Mishchenk, he's absolutely right. If we have a mixed system, it has to be a mixed system. Today it's all done working on the one side, it might end badly. But in accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of the bill amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 11335]] Please vote. [[12:22:33]] For 217 The factions. Please. Dear colleagues, according to the factions, may I have your attention? Region Party – 185, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, non-factional – 10. There's this proposal, we have to make a decision, which part, but it has to be made, because then it won't be possible to create a working group. So you can do that, your honorary colleagues, you can do the consultation and then you can go back to making the final decision or you can make the decision again. One moment, dear fellows. Or let's do it this way, we're going to have to make a decision to at least create a working group. So let's do it this way, during the break, let's hold consultations, then figure out the final decision. Is there no objection? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u153	I'm putting the deputies in the session room so that we can continue our productive work. Dear National Deputies! Before the break, you and I discussed the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There have been a number of points on which thoughts have been polarized, and MPs have expressed these warnings, particularly that factions are formed on a party basis, and thus one national MP may declare himself a faction. As regards the procedure for considering issues at the founding meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as for the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, because the proposal states that 120 national deputies may require resignation, discharge from the post of Commissioner for Human Rights, and this will be seen as simply an effort to keep under constant control and pressure the authorized one, who must be completely independent of any institution and be oriented solely to the needs of people and to the laws. Now I'm going to ask Adam Ivanovich, who discussed these issues here, to hold consultations, so that he can set out the reasoning that is proposed to be taken into account in order to find at least a partial compromise on this issue. Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in our view, we have found compromise on the issues that have been raised, including those expressed by colleague Sas, those expressed by colleague Hanustak, and others, some understandings we have found. First of all, as far as article 16 is concerned. We suggest that in article 16, where it is said that during the plenary sessions of the newly elected Supreme Council, the issue be considered in such a sequence, that we propose the following logical, in our view, sequence: the formation of the formal opening of the first session; the second is the formation and registration of the parliamentary factions, the parliamentary groups; the third is the election of the Counting Commission; the fourth is the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine; the fifth is the election of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And after the formation of the Supreme Council's leadership, listening to the President of Ukraine's out-of-office letter to the newly elected Supreme Council. Keep following the text. Then, perhaps, before the election of the leadership after the election of the Counting Commission, let us present the report of the Chief of the Governing Council of the previous call. I mean, we form a temporary presidency of the first session, we form MP factions and groups, we listen to the report of the previous Head, then we create a Counting Commission, then we choose the Head of the Supreme Council, we choose the leadership of the Supreme Council, we listen to the President, we listen to the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u155	Is there no objection to such a procedure? None. What are some other suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u156	Then Volodymyr Mikhailovich is certain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u157	Maybe we should vote for that sequence. Or let's do it this way, one minute, Adam Ivanovich will now announce all the proposals, then we'll exchange our thoughts and make the final decision. Please, the next Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u158	The next is about the formation of MP factions. Offered. The MPs are made up of national MPs elected for election lists of political parties and national MPs who have been promoted by the political party in the one-maned districts. In the formation of a parliamentary faction into its composition, too, if the principles of such a faction are observed, national MPs from the number of candidates for the national MPs who made their way into the order of self - exaltation may enter. So it's forming a party that's been listed on party lists in one-mandom districts on this basis, but they can be joined by self-depositors who want to join this faction if they want to. Yeah, that's one change. And then here's a proposition about the Council of Commissioners. I mean, "the release from office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights can also be carried out at the request of no less than one fourth of the people's deputies," take away, because if one fourth, every day we will release the Commissioner from the rights of the Supreme Council. It's from human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u159	Here are three suggestions. I ask very briefly, Yuri Hanustak, one minute. Then there's Sergei Sas, Vladimir Kaplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u160	Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Well, anyway, there wasn't a norm that was minimal. Adam Ivanovich, however, was not a norm, which was the minimum number of members of the faction. So this rule has to be defined in some way. This amendment, number 23, is practically logical about quantity. What you've read is normal when a faction continues to form, that is, when people who have gone through the majority are added to it by party and self-regulatory, the faction becomes much larger. That makes sense. But the minimum number of factions, it has to be a separate norm. So I'd like to go through with everything you've given me. so that the amendment of Knjazević may be fixed, which sounds so that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u161	Please state what it says.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u162	That's what it sounds like. In paragraph 2 of paragraph 5, the words “political parties that have participated in the distribution of parliamentary mandates” are replaced by the words “political parties that are members of national parliaments*** included in electoral lists that have participated in the distribution of parliamentary mandates by election results”. In fact, it's 32. So a faction of Communists, they have it right there. No, it's Freedom, it's the least they can do is 28. This is just a normal position and it's more or less logical. Since people continue to be added, they continue to be added.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u163	Thank you. Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u164	Thank you. Deputy Sas, "BUT is the Fatherland." Well, of course, it's interesting to observe a new legislative procedure, although you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, and Adam Ivanovich, are aware of the case, as in cases where the second reading proposal is not supported, further procedures are under way. It was necessary to re-read the second reading, and let the committee consider all the proposals and submit the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council. But, well, what are you gonna do here? Most of it, the team is running. As for the proposals that Adam Ivanovich made, Adam Ivanovich, in the context of the accepted, well, 116th, I don't want to talk about it anymore, but your proposal: a calculus commission is created in that case, in this sequence, if a secret vote is going to be the head, that is. And in this case, in this case, you're going to pick your head there like it is a day, and then the day after that, there's no point in making a reckoning commission. What will she do there? That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u165	Thank you. Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u166	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, the position of the MP's Reform Group for the Future next, we don't take the position that is now being demonstrated about depriving any self-regulatory rights from one-maned territorial constituencies that have come here as independent people, but can't turn around and form an appropriate group because there's no prospect of creating a group of more than thirty people. The other one. They have no possibility of joining a committee in the formation and distribution of committees. Third, they have no reason to form a preparatory group, because it is impossible to collect 15 signatures of strangers in one day. And last but not least, it turns out that today, a parliamentary group, no matter what it's formed, can be formed at any time on the basis of the fourth paragraph of paragraph 59 of this legislative act, if the faction that's going to be blown up on account of, let's say, an increase in its numbers due to the income of independent deputies is going to increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u167	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I can generally agree, because these are discussion issues and different suggestions from those of the colleagues who have spoken: yes, yes, yes, yes, you can do that in a different way. The only thing I can do, Sergey Volodymyrovich, is agree with you on the matter of the Counting Commission, because article 17 of the Rules speaks of the task of the Counting Commission. The responsibility and task of the Counting Commission is not only to vote in secret, but the Counting Commission is watching the vote take place. If the Council system doesn't work, it runs the vote and so on and so forth. So the task of the Counting Commission is not just to vote in secret. And so before the election, any election, and the open election is the Constitutional Court's decision, you know, it has to be created, because it doesn't just have a secret vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, we need to vote on the three proposals that Adam Ivanovich has made, because all the other proposals that have been made have already been considered, and the vote on them has not been effective. So the first is the proposal made by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to follow up the discussions at the plenary sessions of the first session of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm voting on this proposal. Please be supportive. Or not to support. [[13:09:19]] For 245 Decision taken. The second sentence, expressed by Adam Ivanovich, is about the conditions for the formation of MP factions and groups. Please vote. [[13:09:43]] For 247 Offer accepted. And finally, dear colleagues, the next proposal is about. on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, delete the position that 120 deputies may ask about the resignation of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[13:10:22]] For 264 Decision taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole as a law that takes into account the changes that we have just supported. Please vote. [[13:10:54]] For 247 The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 189, "BUT - "Patkaščina" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 25, People's Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, non-fractional – 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, don't forget that today is a big football day, so let's work fast. We're looking at the draft Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum, Bill 6278. [[resecond reading]] [[the July 10, 2010, assignment]] The profile committee is the Horbatuk. Please, Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u171	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! No one would question the need to adopt a bill that would affect the state - building sphere of Ukrainian life. Unfortunately, our committee did not consider this bill, which we voted for a second read in 2010. That's why I'm introducing, I'm a member of this committee, the proposal to identify myself in the session room and vote on this bill in the first reading as the law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, there is a letter from the committee's profile report that the committee did not make the final decision on the drafting of the bill and so on and accepted the proposal to vote on it in the first reading. We'll be determined. Please sign up. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u173	Vladimir Yavorowski, united opposition, Trieste, Kiev. Dear colleagues, we've already become something like this, forgive me, a very nasty tradition: then we passed the law on language functioning in Ukraine, the MPs to make 2,000 40 amendments to the second reading, they were completely rejected and not considered, and adopted in the first reading; now the same is being proposed again. For what purpose did we make these amendments in order, at least from our point of view, to improve this bill? Because of this, I'm sure we're simply being deprived of the right that we have constitutionally, to amend between the first and the second readings. I insist and believe that all the amendments should be considered and followed by the Rules of Procedure of this Bill and adopted. He's needed, of course. But simply to reject and accept in the first reading is foolish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u174	Please, Arjewitin is passing it on to Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u175	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, you know, this is another destruction of parliamentaryism in Ukraine, with far-reaching consequences. I would like to remind you that the bill on the U.S. referendum has already been discussed in the second reading, not in the first. Therefore, it is not possible to go back to the first reading. Because part of the amendment was voted in the second reading. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a decision that was valid, not overturned by anyone and entrusted it with preparing for a second reading. Again, it is not possible to go back to editing the first reading. I want to remind you that at the time, the Supreme Council agreed that part of the rules did not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. And that's why the bill was returned to read again. So this is a very serious step that means turning the Ukrainian state into a police force.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u176	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u177	Thank you. Not just into a police state, but a totalitarian state, like Hitler, where unconstitutional, unfair referendum law passed Hitler's Third Reich laws. So I would warn against such actions. And I want to draw the attention of all of the Ukrainian people to the serious danger that now depended on the legal field of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u178	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u179	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The referendum mechanism is widely used in democratic countries when the people directly decide on a case-by-case basis. Unfortunately, we do not have such a mechanism, and we must not fall behind from European countries if we are indeed going there. I don't know where you're going. We're going to Europe. That's the first one. Second. The decision is final to be taken by the Supreme Council. And if the committee is sabotaged, for some reason it does not pass the bill in time, the Supreme Council may well take a final decision on the bill. Therefore, in my view, it is a perfectly fair proposal and a legitimate proposal arising from the review procedure to vote on the bill in the first reading and in general. And to give the President a signature so that the people could benefit from the referendum mechanism, as in any democratic country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u180	Exclusion, special merit before parliamentaryism, Sasa one minute and Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u181	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, the committee did not consider the bill and did not suggest it in a second reading. That's the first one. Next. More than a thousand amendments have been introduced to the bill, and in fact 1,026 amendments have been made to the right of national deputies, entities of the legislative initiative. And no one has the right to forbid them to do that. So, Adam Ivanovich, this is the procedure you suggested, from the second to the first, please accept, in the second, reject, introduce, and consider in the first reading, and again the MPs will make their proposals. That's the right thing to do. And the fight is because it has a norm, in this law that allows the President to bring the Constitution of Ukraine to a public discussion. And that's why we're pushing this bill now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u182	Yes, please, Carmazin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u183	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, revered Ukrainian people! For your information, I have made 64 amendments to this bill before I read it again. Including what my colleague Sass was talking about. This is part of the fourth article of article 15, where I propose to delete the solution in a referendum: whether to enact laws of Ukraine other than laws that are not allowed to be adopted in a referendum under the Constitution of Ukraine. We can and they want to be manipulated through falsifications, those that are being tested now, think about 18 percent of the counterfeit, falsified voters now. They say we won the election. You didn't even catch up "For Jedu!"for Jedu!" Then I got 13 percent, and you don't have that 13 percent today. You have 10-11 percent. And now you want to accept both the Constitution and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. So let the session room be defined. I'm going to put to the vote the committee's proposal who's in favour of reviewing the All-U.S. Referendum Act to propose to the committee in the first reading. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u185	There was no committee. There was no committee. [[13:19:59]] For 264
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u186	For 264. Decision taken. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the All-U.S. Referendum Act as a law. [[Registration number 6278]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u187	Adam Ivanovich, this cannot be done. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:20:29]] For 265
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u188	For 265. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u189	Show the factions who took it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u190	The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 189, "BUT" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 4, the Communists – 25, the People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 14, non-fractional – 13. Please, Alexander Kozub, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u191	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, considering the importance of the issue, is a proposal to include in the agenda and to consider the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to refer the Central Electoral Commission to the election of Ukrainian national deputies in the one-man election districts of 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223. [[No. 11398]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u192	Yes, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we will now come to the consideration of this issue of inclusion in the agenda. But I understand that we're going to be following a reduced procedure here, so please, the author of the Kozub bill and prepare for the speech. Please, you have two minutes to present the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine order to refer the Central Electoral Commission to the election of Ukrainian national deputies in the one-maned constituencies of 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223. In view of the impossibility of establishing the Central Electoral Commission in one-man election districts, the results of the election of Ukrainian national deputies on 28 October 2012 are determined by the Supreme Council: recommending the Central Electoral Commission to appoint, in accordance with part two of article 104 of the Ukrainian Law "On Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies", the re-election of Ukrainian national deputies in one-man election districts Nos. 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223 and to ensure that they are held in accordance with the law. Determine the amount of budgetary expenditure required for the re-election of Ukraine's national deputies in one-seat constituencies. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, within the limits of its mandate, take urgent measures to ensure that the re-election of Ukrainian national deputies is financed in accordance with established procedures in one-seat constituencies Nos. 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u194	There can't be a date because it's set by the Central Election Commission. We're not setting you up. Please sign in. Sign up for two, two for the other. Please, Paul’s Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u195	Andrey Pavlovski, Julia Timoshenko faction "The Fatherland." Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u196	Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to add to this decree one sentence that elections in one-maned districts are determined by the agreement of the President of Ukraine, the Chief of the President's Administration and the Head of the District Administration. Well, friends, well, if at the 194th district of Cherkasy Mikola Bulatecki won 12.5 thousand votes in all the 82 stations that are, and unfortunately, lost in two closed stations in the S.I.O. and in prison, do you have a conscience here and a moral to announce the re-election?Oh, my God! If Leonid Dozenko won 5,000 in 197 counties to confirm the public vote and there are protocols, what did Bogdan Hubsky take money to the Central Election Commission? But we're going to work out the money he took and run the reelections again? I think it's a contempt for the people who voted, for the people who won, for the very fact that the re-elections were held where they were honestly, with a great deal of money. I could allow a vote where, for example, there's destroyed electoral documentation, where there's no document, where you can't understand how the election was going on. This, as an exception to the rule, could be in one or two districts. Well, when people win 10,000 to 12,000 votes, have a conscience, you can get into that situation! How much power do you have to win: 100,000, 200,000? The second position we stand for. The Central Election Commission, in accordance with articles 30 and 97, has full authority where the head of the commission, like in Cherkas, was tactfully ill for two days and then called her and told her that you were going out, and she arranged for us to have so much health. Where commissions don't work and commission heads fake, open. The C.V.C.A. should go to the D.A.'s office, open a criminal case. The protocols are to be brought in, and the Central Election Commission itself should calculate as provided by law. What are the reelections?Oh, my God! Moreover, I would like to warn you, my position, and I think the position of all normal people that the Supreme Council of the New Convent will not begin to work until the summation is given in all 225 constituencies. It is contempt for people and for those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u198	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Prepare the Fedun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u199	Disdain for people began from the moment the committees were formed: both district commissions and district commissions. And when we saw that just about 95 percent, the representatives of one party represent these commissions. The disdain for both the Supreme Council and the people of Ukraine and those who were roaming began when, in public, without a glimpse of conscience, money was being offered to the district district commissions, and money was being made public, except for two or three people who did not represent the great party represented today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we need to start with that, in general, that for the election period, we need to take the heads of the district, the district administrations, so that they can have people's will, and that's fairer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u200	Yes, Fedun, faction of the Party of the Regions. Don't insist. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u201	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear National Deputies, we are proposing a decree in which we pretend that we have not realized that the Central Election Commission has failed to do what is provided for in this Electoral Law. It's just that we didn't seem to realize that we were all stupid. Well, we're not all stupid, Adam Ivanovich. What's the point of recommending to the Central Election Commission? What if she doesn't read article 104, "Re-election"? When they are held only when they are recognized as not having taken place or if a person has not obtained a parliamentary mandate in accordance with the order established by this law. And why don't we add a paragraph here and add it here, recommend to the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify the activities of all the members of the District Electoral Commissions of the districts mentioned, which have led to the inability to establish the result. Period. Then collect the funds needed to hold these elections from these members of the District Election Commissions. This is going to be the point on this case. And then there's another point. Ask the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovitch, as a guarantor, as stated in article 106 of the Constitution, about the dismissal of the heads of the district administrations of the areas in which such things occurred. Because they only happened because of the approval of these heads of government, so they understood the performance of the fass team, they see that they're "partners," they're supposed to serve the same person. No, Your Honor, you must serve the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people! And you don't serve them, so you'll be "dogs," only after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u202	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, the point is that the ideas you were talking about, the Supreme Council at the morning meeting at the beginning of the morning, the vast majority of them took into account in the ruling, where the Attorney General's orders were given, the Supreme Council of Justice and other organs. Now it's about answering the call of the Central Electoral Commission, which asked us to appoint an election with you. We don't have that kind of authority, and that's why we're sending these powers to the C.V.C.C., which is right to do that. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u203	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, according to the Constitution, the people are the source and bearer of authority. During the election, the people delegate their authority to their electorates. But if, at the time of delegation of their powers to their electorates, the authorities that were in charge of the election procedure had not done so, somewhere, something had been violated or some violations had been recorded, then in this situation, perhaps only the source and the holder of the authority of the people could radically correct the error. If we're confused, we can figure out, the district commission didn't work out, county, CFC is a matter of procedure. But when people see that something is wrong, it means that they have to take power back into their own hands and, once again, through the voting procedure, determine the winner for themselves, so that there is no doubt that there was an honest will to pour people out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u204	Question completed. I'm putting a motion to vote, to include in the agenda the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to refer the Central Electoral Commission to the election of Ukrainian national deputies in the one-man election districts of 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223. [[Bill No. 11398]] The point is to recommend that the Central Electoral Commission appoint these re-elections. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:32:28]] For 260 I'd like to ask the profile committee to prepare us for the evening session to consider this decision because it is, indeed, relevant, urgent and we need to find a way out of the situation where these so-called problem areas are now. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[on the admission of import duty rates to WTO criteria]] [[Registration number 9241-d]] Reported the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u205	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act was adopted on 15 May this year. The bill provides for an increase in import duty rates, equal to the anticipated obligation to the World Trade Organization for a number of goods that are either already produced in the country, or may be made subject to the national manufacturer to certain conditions that will help him to compete with similar imported goods. In the preparation of the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council, in the second reading, an additional text was prepared and a working group was set up to include Ukrainian national MPs, representatives of ministries and authorities interested in one or more positions, representatives of business associations such as the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the Federation of Employers of Ukraine, the American Chamber of Commerce, the European Business Association, etc. After first reading the draft text, some adjustments have been made that take into account market adjustments and the need for minimal influence on price changes in the country. In particular, a number of groups have been removed that decide to further work on a separate bill: this is a group of 1-24, which deals with food, plant and animal products. This is a group of 38-39 -- chemical production of plastic, polymer materials and 84-85 -- equipment and mechanical devices. So these groups in the process of reprocessing the second reading were removed from the text, and we're going to be separately consulting and working on them. In general, the bill proposes to change about a hundred commodity codes by ten characters according to UTZED. Based on an analysis of imports of goods last year in 2013, this will provide an additional revenue of 500 million dollars. During the drafting of the second reading bill, 230 proposals were made by national deputies, 205 of which were taken into account, including in part and editorially, 25 proposals were rejected. Therefore, we are ready to consider the second reading and accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u206	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. We're going after the repairs. Yes, first and second counts. Carmazine, 5th partial count. Don't insist. 6-a, his, partly accounted for. Pinchuk. Carmazine, 7th. Partially counted. 8th Pinchuk. Partly. Carmazine, 10th. Partly. Carmazine, 13th. Edited. 15th, partially accounted for by Carmagina. 16th, Carmazine. Counted. Vaschuk, 18th. Edited. 21st, Carmazin. Edited. 23rd, Carmazin. Partly. Gorbal, 24th. Declined. Don't insist. Carmazine 27th. Declined. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it's not. Yeah, 29th Carmazine. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u207	By 33, there's a technical supplement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u208	Thirty-two, Carmazin. Overruled. Don't insist. 33rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u209	33rd. For the stenographer. I'm going to say 2804610000 for the transcript. In addition to Karacai's 33rd offer, it's the same rate as the code that counts, 2804690000.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u210	Yes, I ask you to vote on this proposal for the 33rd amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u211	Please be supportive. [[13:37:49]] For 257
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u212	Supported. 34th, partially accounted for, Carmagina. 37th, his part. 39th, Carmazine, 40th, rejected, not insisting. 41st, too. 43rd, Carmazin, don't insist. 46th, Carmazin, edited. Carmazine, 50s, doesn't insist. Carmazine, 62th, rejected, does not insist. Yes, here of the 20 amendments to Carmagine are taken into account partially or editorially. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Cooking Igor, 94th, please, mic, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u213	Vitaly Juryovich, we've worked on this proposal for a long time, as expressed in the 94th amendment, and we've come up with a compromise decision to divide this group into two approaches: one with a zero rate, the other six and a half, which in no way affects the budget. At the same time, what happened was not taken into account. Doesn't that mean that you said we'd be back soon, or maybe today we could look at it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u214	Thank you. In my report, I pointed out that 39 groups and 38ths, in general, we moved these groups because there are other issues like yours and others that need to be further aligned with the Ministry of Economic Development and others. So this whole block is removed, in fact, in the second reading and we're going to be separate work with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u215	Don't insist, I understand. The following tens of two proposals by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin are taken into account or partially taken into account. Karmazin’s 130th amendment is rejected. Don't insist. It's 131st. 132nd. 133rd. 134th. 135th. 136th. 137th. I don't insist, Yuri Anatolyevich, I understand, I don't insist on my amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u216	And we've practically taken into account all of Karmazin's suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u217	Yes, then all of the proposals made by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, they have been taken into account by about three dozen, which have been edited, counted, taken into account. Tomenko, 226 amendments, don't you think? Don't insist. Suskevich, 227th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 228. Don't insist. All the other amendments we made, so I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[on the admission of import duty rates to WTO criteria]] [[Registration number 9241-d]] Please vote. [[13:42:03]] For 264 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Free Legal Aid Act. [[Registration number 9496]] [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u218	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting discussed the Comparative Table to the Second Reading to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in relation to the Adoption of the Law on Free Legal Aid, which was adopted in the first reading on 13 March 2012. [[Registration number 9496]] The draft law aims to ensure a mechanism for the realization of the right of citizens of Ukraine, foreigners and stateless persons to free legal aid and the right of individual categories of persons to free secondary legal assistance by bringing a series of legislative acts of Ukraine into line with the Ukrainian Free Legal Aid Act. During the drafting of the bill for second reading by the Committee, 51 proposals and amendments were received from the Ukrainian National Deputies for consideration and consideration. Of these, 29 are taken into account in whole or in part, other amendments are rejected as such that they are conceptually inconsistent with the content of the draft law adopted in the first reading or do not change the substance of the accepted standards. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a number of comments on the project, including that the bill contained no changes to the relevant norms of the recently adopted Criminal Procedure Code in the new edition and the Ukrainian Law on Lawyering and Law. In a general conclusion, the board noted that the bill needed to be revised and re-readed. The Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Free Legal Assistance, to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 9496]] Please support the committee's proposal and thank you, Your Honor, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u219	Let's get some repairs. Yes, Amendment 3, Carmazin. Don't insist. Rubber, 6th. Don't insist. Yeah, Carmazin, 11th, 16th, 17th. Yuri Anatolyovich does not insist. What is the correction? Yuri Anatolyovich, so what's the correction? 16th Amendment, Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u220	. 16th, Adam Ivanovich. Come on, come on, come on, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u221	Well, from the 3rd, let's go from the 3rd. 3 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u222	Adam Ivanovich, well, we didn't make that deal. Well, why are you? Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I propose in Amendment 3 in the first sentence of part six of article 28 of the master procedural code of Ukraine, the word "centre" should be replaced by the words "centres" and the words "centres". I think it'll be technically and legally better written. So please, and I wanted to hear why this can't be done, because there's no reason for that in the table, Yuri Romanovich, a respectable, well-founded statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u223	I can explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u224	It's written simply, "Deviated," but there's got to be a justification here for me to get ready. Maybe I won't be taking up your time. So you haven't worked out a bit, Yuri Romanovich. It says, "justification."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u225	Yuri Anatolyovich, let me answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u226	Please, but work hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u227	The point is that we had two amendments that applied to this topic, this is an editorial amendment, really, you got it right. But given the fact that the 2 amendments that our colleague Zabarsky made are taken into account, and it relates to the same issue, there was no point in talking about the 3rd amendment. So after counting the 2th amendment, we've actually taken your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u228	Your opinion is taken into account. You don't insist, do you, Yuri Anatolyovich? Thank you. Yeah, let's see what your next one is. 9th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u229	Yuri Carmazin. Why am I talking? If there was a justification, it would be easier. In the ninth amendment, I propose in article 12 of the Civil Procedure Code that part two of Ukraine should be added after the words: "The Ukrainian Free Legal Aid Act" should be supplemented by the words "and other laws." And it's not just a legal case either, and that's essentially what we're talking about in cases where we're adding free legal aid. Clearly, other laws, both KPCs, and all others must be written down. So I don't understand what it would do to you if you were to fill in the words "and by other laws"? This is the law of Ukraine that we have adopted and signed by the President. Yuri Romanovich, I think this should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u230	Yuri Anatolyovich, I thank you for taking care of the interests of the citizens. But the thing is, we have the only law that regulates the provision of free legal aid, and there are no others, and this is the Free Legal Aid Act, which is what we mentioned in the law. And there was no point in adding the words "and other laws."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u231	The 9th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:48:28]] For the four of us. Not supported. Karmazin's 11th amendment, but it's already been voted in the center.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u232	We have the 10th account there, so the 11th is the same. The thought is, and it's considered a more general amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u233	14th, Carmazin. You insist. 14th, because 11th and 13th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u234	Dear Adam Ivanovich, on the 11th and 13th, I don't deny that it actually counts there. As for Amendment 14, I want you to hear me. Grounds and order of cessation. I propose to put part four in such an editorial "The basis and order of termination of representation by a lawyer appointed by the free secondary legal aid centre is determined by the Ukrainian Free Legal Aid Act." These changes are due to the fact that representation on the basis of a contract, a commission between a lawyer and a free primary aid centre is contrary to the legal nature of such representation, the general principles of civil law on this type of contract. Because according to the provisions of civil law, a trust agreement is made between a trustee and a person on whose behalf he will do certain things, i.e. a trustee. Such positions indicate that lawyers who provide free secondary assistance on the basis of the centre's orders will not have before the persons they represent, any obligations arising out of the service contract. Also, such positions do not reflect.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u235	Thank you. It's the 14th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:50:18]] For the Not supported. 16th Carmazine. But at 11th and 12th we've already voted on that. 17th. They just voted in the 14th, about a lawyer. What do you mean? Grounds and procedures for the termination of the representation of a lawyer appointed by the Centre. It's the same thing, Yuri Anatolyovich. It's the 14th, just voted. Well, Yuri Anatolyovich, we've already voted. 23rd, Prokopchuk. Don't insist. No, no, Yuri Anatolyovich, 25th yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u236	Adam Ivanovich, I understand everything. You want Carmazin not to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u237	No, no, Carmazin's only telling the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u238	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u239	Yuri Anatolyovich, there's a lot of amendments that are marked that aren't included, they're essentially accounted for. And especially the 25th and the 22nd were supported. And that's where your idea is included. So there's no reason to blame him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u240	Do you agree, Yuri Anatolyovich? Twenty-five and we're clear. Declined 33rd Prokopchuk, no insistence. Gumenjuk, 34th. 35th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u241	Yuri Carmazin. Dear friends! I propose part three of article 3 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. "Children who are in a difficult situation in connection with disability, disease, orphans, homelessness, under-security, conflict and ill-treatment within the family are entitled to free secondary legal assistance in accordance with the Ukrainian Free Legal Aid Act." I believe that in this case we are with you, remember what is written in article 7 of the "Installation and Order of Social Services and the definition of the categories of persons who provide such services on a free basis," so I think we should write it down exactly as I suggest. And I don't understand why you didn't do it, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u242	That's a good line, let's support it. 35th vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u243	Good. But we have the 31st accounted for, the same 15th sub-paragraph we just counted in the 31st, so look. [[13:52:46]] For the
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u244	3 for. Digger, 37th doesn't insist. Carmazine, 42nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u245	Adam Ivanovich, I propose in paragraph 13 of part three of article 8 the words "report the possibility" to replace the words "provide children." That is, the article will read: "In cases established by law, children are informed of the possibility of receiving free legal aid." The point is that it is a different law, a law that warns against domestic violence. We're the ones who make changes to that law. And that's what I'm calling your attention to. When we make this, we have to make such changes as we tell the children. And I think it's better to answer that question so that we can get to the kids, that we don't have to pay for anything, so they don't get scared of it. And of course it is necessary to make sure that they are not subject to crime, and they do not need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u246	This is the same situation. It's just a 40 amendment that says the same problem. So the idea, Yuri Anatoliovich, is yours, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u247	Yes, dear colleagues, 42 revisions. Don't you insist on Yuri Anatolyovich? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u248	And there we are. We're telling any of the subjects we need to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u249	And the 44th is the same thing as what it provides for children. The 44th also, Yuri Anatolyevich agrees that it is almost counted. 50 repairs, Prokopchuk. Don't insist. We thank Yuri Anatolyevich for the adjustments that are included. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Free Legal Assistance. [[Registration number 9496]] Please vote. [[13:55:13]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u250	You have one point to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u251	Note? If only there was one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u252	Adam Ivanovich, I'll say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u253	Well, come on, say it. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u254	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I've saved you 10 amendments there, but another question. What's your point? That you didn't read the Chief Legal Officer's remark. The main point he made was that it concluded that the bill needed to be redrafted and re-readed. Because of this, despite the fact that Yuri Romanovich spoke so slightly about him, I would like you to know that it is written directly, that the analysis of the text indicates that his individual positions are not consistent with the provisions of the Law on Legal Aid and therefore they consider this bill to be non-systematic and such that it should not be adopted in general. For this reason, I would ask you, as chairman, to carry out my responsibility under the Rules, to make an announcement for the future when they are so important that it sounds from you. I mean, it's open-minded as a chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u255	All right, Yuri Anatolyovich. Your wish is accepted, although the reporter has really been paying attention to it. Yes, I continue for 15 minutes to consider the next bill. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. [[on favourable conditions for domestic machinery companies]] [[resecond reading]] [[Registration number 8764]] The chairman of the committee, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u256	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Your Honor, you have before you a bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex, which has been re-readed. [[8764]] 12 proposals and amendments were made to read again by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. All proposals are considered, discussed at the committee meeting. Part of the proposal is rejected as being not in line with the concept of the bill. The proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputies have significantly improved the bill. Regarding the comments of the General Legal Authority, it can be agreed with regard to the fundamental principles of State regulation of social relations. We agreed to that on the committee. As for the comment on the validity of the bill, there is indeed a problem. On the one hand, the Budget Code provides that where additional expenses are to be incurred, they should be foreseen in advance. On the other hand, in order to give a signal to investors, we need to put this bill into effect as soon as it's published. The law provides for the allocation of funds to stimulate, but the allocation of funds can be agreed only with the adoption of the budget. The adoption of the bill will give impetus to the development of a country’s agricultural machinery, increase the production and implementation of technology for Ukraine’s agro-industrial complex. And then there's increasing the financial resources of businesses and additional budgeting, creating new jobs. The committee proposes to the Supreme Council to adopt the prescribed bill in second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u257	Yeah, let's get some repairs. Carmazine, 2nd Amendment, overruled. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u258	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Grigory Mikolaiovich! I think this law can be renamed, not "Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinebuilding," but killing domestic machinery. Why? Because we are. And you should leave the article 1 paragraph 3 as a valid text. Because the abolition of the defined term "native technology and equipment for an agro-industry complex" of the qualification requirement under which such equipment belongs, the value of which is more than 50 per cent of raw materials, materials, nodes, aggregates, parts and components of domestic production, is undervalued. [[hardware]] Because this expands the circle of businesses governed by the law and reduces the fate of what has been done in Ukraine. At the same time, the total amount of State support remains unchanged. What will lead to what? To dissipate financial resources. The motivation of Ukrainian businesses is declining. It's going to grow what? Unemployment!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u259	Yes, Carmazin’s amendment, 2, is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u260	I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u261	I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u262	That's what it sounded like. He's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u263	Please back up! [[14:00:51]] For-7. Not supported. Yes, Amendment 3, Ribakov doesn't insist. 4th, Prassolov. 6th, accounted for. 7th, Rybakov doesn't insist. Same 9's, 10's, theirs. And Karmazin's 12th amendment is counted. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. [[on favourable conditions for domestic machinery companies]] [[Registration number 8764]] [[14:01:45]] For 235 Dear colleagues, by factions. The Party of Regions – 184, BUT – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 3, the Communists – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-fractional – 10. This is the one, my dear colleagues, the case where a very beautiful name has absolutely nothing to do with supporting domestic machinery, it's all done the opposite. We're looking at the draft agrarian bill. [[Registration number 9610]] [[second reading]] Reports member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations Black Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u264	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. On September 6, this year, we adopted a bill on agrarian receipts submitted by the people's deputies Tereshuk and Kaletnik. [[Registration number 9610]] The bill has been completed by the committee for the second reading. In preparation for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Agrarian License Act, 51 were applied, 37 of them included, 14 were rejected. Proposals and amendments to the bill were worked out by a working group composed of committee deputies, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, scientific institutions and public organizations. Compared to the draft draft of the first reading bill, the changes made are minor in substance. An exception is the proposal to exclude from the scope of the laws of the farm operation concerning live farm animals. Next, agrarian receipts can be issued only for the production of vegetation. The committee agreed on this proposal, given that agrarian receipts are a new financial tool and will need to be seriously explained about their innovation mechanism at the time of their implementation. Then, the committee believes that it is appropriate at the initial stage to work out the model of agrarian receipts for the future crop. And if it works effectively, the machinery of agrarian receipts could spread under the siege of living animals. The project takes into account the proposal to exclude the prospect of future transfers of agrarian receipts into undocumented form in order to use them in commodity exchange operations. In addition, the illegal limitations of the parties to appeal against the decision of the body that is prejudicial to disputes on the merits of monitoring agrotechnologies have been corrected. According to amendments to the bill, decisions of this kind may be brought before a court. Other proposals made by national deputies are mostly technical and have been taken into account. The amended bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Dream Relations, and it was recommended that the second reading should be adopted as a law as a whole. A general conclusion has been reached by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, which points to the project, but it is possible to adopt it in a second reading. Taking into account the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, it is proposed that the draft Agrarian Postage Act be adopted in second reading with appropriate technical and legal processing. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u265	Let's get some repairs. 1 amendment. Carmazine. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Four. Counted. Carmazine. 8th. Counted. Four? Please. Four. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u266	At the 4th amendment, I propose, this is Yuri Carmazin, second paragraph of this paper. "Agrarian credit is a document issued to confirm the arrangement of the loan and its terms and conditions, defines the debtor's liability, which is secured by the mortgage, the delivery of agricultural products or the payment of money under the conditions laid down therein. Commodity agrarian receipts refer to the orderly documents." I think it's very important that we define this document, just that it's a piece of paper. At the same time, the presence in the agrarian receipt of signs such as the fixing of an obligation, the availability of appropriate props, i.e. the possibility of transfer of rights corresponds to the definition of the meaning of the concept of "price paper" contained in article 194 of the Civil Code as a document of established form with appropriate props, certifying monetary or other property rights and determining its relationship between the person who owns it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u267	The 4th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[2:07:04]] For the Not supported. Carmazine, 11th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u268	Thank you for the adjustments. And as for the 11th, I propose paragraph 3 that I put it this way: "the right of ownership or the right of use of the land cannot be transferred as long as it is burdened by the agrarian licence as a legacy of the future crop." I am convinced that this is the best way to ensure human rights. And I'd like to hear from the committee what's behind this rejection, because it's only written down here, and why this amendment isn't accepted, I can't understand it. For how can ownership be passed on if it is burdened, and how can it be passed on?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u269	Yuri Anatoliyovich, the logic of your observation is, but the committee considered and made that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u270	The 11th amendment shall be put to the vote. 11th. [[14:08:36]] For 1 13th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u271	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to, obviously we're going to have to go back to the last point, because it's going to create a lot of opportunities for abuse and conflict, and I predict that's obviously going to have to put the President in the loop, let him react if the law is passed. But I want our colleagues to count, I don't write these amendments for myself, I write them for people. And I'm proposing paragraph four in the following wording: "Agrarian receipts are made in three copies, one of which is kept in the case of the person making notarial actions with their identification and registration, the other is passed to the creditor with the agrarian receipt, and the third is the debtor with the agrarian receipt." This is a suggestion that the debtor may be affected by the fact that the debtor does not have a copy of his agrarian receipt, as proposed by the author of article 2, which, at his request, can only produce a copy of this document. We've got it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u272	Thank you. 13 amendments to the vote. [[2:10:08]] For the Not supported. 14th and 15th, Yuri Anatolyevich, they're almost identical, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u273	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national deputies, unfortunately, you have not accepted the previous offer. So think about it, you've got an election coming up, and you've seen that even when you have 28 samples of different protocols with the same wet seal and they're either falsified or they're lost or something. And here you don't even want three. It's a piece of art, you know, you're making a copy here. What should we do? I propose that the first paragraph should read: "requisition creditors????the terms for further transfer of rights on agrarian receipt and to ensure that the debtor's obligation is fulfilled." This is due to the fact that the agrarian bill, proposed by the author, does not determine the extent to which the debtor’s obligation is to be fulfilled, which significantly increases the possibility of abuse in this area and complicates the protection of his rights. Then people will go to the courts. And I suggest we rule it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u274	All right, finish the thought, keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u275	I'm done. This is up to the 2nd amendment, and I immediately started to say, "Exclusion, by renumbering the points of this part accordingly, paragraph three, namely, "Requisition the creditor and the conditions for further transfer of rights with agrarian receipt." And I bring this in because the existence of signs such as the fixing of an unconditional obligation in this bill, the existence of the corresponding props, corresponds to the content of the definition of the concept of "price paper", which is provided by the 194th Civil Code as a document of established form with the corresponding props, which confirms the monetary or other property right and defines the relationship between the person or has placed it, issued it and provided for the performance of the obligations under its terms and conditions, as well as the possibility of transfer of rights arising out of that document to other persons." Think about it! In our first reading of this law, even criminal responsibility was foreshadowed, if you remember. Now everyone's laughing at it, but then they're drowning. As we cried out to you, do not do this, for we will make the good work bad. That's why I'm proposing to take this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u276	Yuri Anatoliyovich, given that the 16th, 17th, 18th, 20th amendments you made are counted and so on, maybe we won't vote on them? Don't you insist? Okay, thanks. 21st, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u277	Yuri Carmazin. I am grateful that these five amendments were taken into account. This is very rare when opposition is heard. But that's what happens, thank God. My next proposal, after paragraph 8, paragraph 2, is to add a new paragraph 9 to the following sentence: "To ensure that the debtor's obligation is fulfilled, an agrarian payment is issued." This is due to this suggestion that the agrarian bill, as proposed by the author, does not determine on which commitment it is issued, which increases risk and abuse in this area and complicates the protection of its rights. Imagine that he will go to court, and what will he report in court? About what? What if they tricked a man? And if you're a fool and something. Or she's illiterate and doesn't know how to protect her rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u278	21st vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:14:20]] For two. Not supported. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, your 23rd. 23rd. It's gonna be a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u279	Yuri Carmazin. I'm sorry, I didn't get to vote for my amendment myself, because the next one needs to be prepared. That's how I'm gonna fix it. Article 8 suggests that the employer should be entitled to monitor the future impact of agricultural production on his own, or to monitor the future crop of agricultural products, which is the subject of an agrarian licence. Monitoring can take place once a month in a previous agreement with the debtor by the time the future crop of agricultural production is in effect." And I'm still predicting that the monitoring is going to take place, four more paragraphs. I make these suggestions in connection with the unequal position of the agrarian producer with the creditor. And this is because this monitoring can take place 24 hours a day, and the result of failure is that the latter has the right to self-protecte the mortgage property as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u280	The 23rd vote is on the vote. You'll be ready by the time you're 32. [[14:15:52]] For two. Not supported. 32nd, Carmazin. We have two, three adjustments left.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u281	Adam Ivanovich, leader of one faction in charge of the village – Igor Fedorovich Sharov screams that we are not legitimately voting – 14:16. I understand, Igor Fedorovich, that you want the law to pass, and if it is voted non-regulatory, you cannot, Adam Ivanovich. So you can decide whether we're done or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u282	We are working until this law is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u283	But you have no right, you only have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u284	Yuri Anatolyevich, your five amendments are still included.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u285	So, can I talk? Is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u286	You can talk. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u287	Then it'll be illegal. I'll pay your attention. I suggest. Turn on my timer, please. I was the one who was talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u288	I can't. You have 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u289	No, it's not. Come on, Adam Ivanovich. It's not like you're in the market! Come on. It's not in the regions. The 32th Amendment proposes that article 11 be deleted. Why? Because the possibility of transfer of rights is a sign of belonging to agrarian receipts to securities that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u290	The 32nd vote is on the vote. [[14:17:21]] For two. Not supported. 36th, Carmazin. Counted. 38th, Carmazin. Counted. Where else? 44th, Carmazin. Counted. 48th, Carmazin. Counted. 49th, Carmazin. Counted. 50th, Carmazin. Counted. And 51st, Carmazine. Please. 51st overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u291	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm sorry you turned down 51st, but thank you for counting the last one. I would like to suggest that Part 8 should be considered as part 4 of this paper: the Cabinet of Ministers, within three months, to bring its own legal acts into line with this law; to amend the National Target Program for the Development of the Ukrainian Village by 2015 by developing a Programme for the Development of Agricultural Credit through the Agrarian Registration Mechanism, the implementation of the basic provisions of this Act and their financial security; and to ensure that ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch, their regulatory acts comply with this Act. And yet, Adam Ivanovich, this is Igor Fedorovich Sharov shouting what to accept, and he himself did not vote for my previous proposal. So perhaps you can support this amendment at the hands of Kabmin, for you understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m0.u292	I ask him to support your amendment. 51st vote. [[14:19:13]] For the five of us. Not supported. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Agrarian Payments Act. The principal legal administration was noted. Registration number 9610. Vote, Yuri Anatolyovich. Half your amendments are counted, even more. [[14:19:41]] For 232 The law is passed. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Let's get back to work at 4:00. Once again, I'm calling on the profile committees, during the break, to hold meetings to review those bills that we've included in the agenda today.
