ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:23]] There were 341 national deputies registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues! It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Organizational and Legal Basis of Combating Organized Crime, 10709 registration number. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:02:04]] For-183 Yes, the decision is made. The rapporteur is the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Pavelenko Volodymyr. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Valérie Beavez. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a bill is proposed, aimed at minimizing the influence of law enforcement agencies on the activities of economic operators and ending the functions they do not have. We suggest that we consider this law. The bill is intended to eliminate the need for the National Bank to draw the conclusions of the special authorities on organized crime in the issuance of a licence for foreign currency transactions and to exclude the rule under which the National Bank is obliged to suspend financing and transactions at the client’s expense as determined by the investigator. Today, according to the Ukrainian National Bank of Ukraine Act, the National Bank monopolizes the issue of national currency, establishes the conditions and order of conversion acts as an authorized state institution in the application of legislation and determines the structure of the currency market. In fact, the bill provides for the removal of the monitoring bodies of both law enforcement and the National Bank and proposes monitoring of licensing processes, including by the National Bank, to carry out a special body to combat organized crime within the framework of operational and search activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u3	Yes, thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Valerius Ananiyovich Bebelz, head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, in fact, the bill annuls such a stage in the issuance by the National Bank of Ukraine of licences for foreign currency operations, as reported by special authorities to combat organized crime and to take into account their findings. This is sub-paragraph eight of the fourth part of article 18 of the Organized Crime Act. This position is considered by our committee to be not entirely true and, above all, because it refers to the complete refusal of control by the special authorities in the fight against organized crime by the process of issuing a licence for foreign exchange operations by the National Bank of Ukraine. And so we think that if we accept that proposal, there are real conditions that such licenses can be used for legalization, for laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, for financing terrorism or for other criminal purposes. In the light of what has been said, the committee believes that the proposed draft law does not comply with our nation’s international obligations in the area of combating organized crime and corruption. What's more, I want to report, and I've reported this at a meeting of our committee of expertise to fight organized crime and corruption that in the last eight years, according to the Institute of Strategic Research of our State, 82 billion dollars of shadow capital has been removed from the country. In the last two years, 420 billion dollars have been withdrawn from the country. The question is, Where is more Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u5	Finish up, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u6	In addition, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the bill should be rejected. Our committee proposes that the bill be sent to the subject of the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Please sign in. Sign up. Please put your names on the information board. Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u8	Vladimir Moses, United Opposition. Please pass the word to the colleague of Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u9	Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u10	Hanustak Yuri, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm here to fully support my colleague Behiz. If we want to completely hide the ends in the water or, more specifically, we want to promote those who will do so, let us accept this project. If we want to completely knock down the bracelet, let's take this project. Well, look what's going on. Today’s order foresees reports from the relevant authorities, namely, not an issue permit, but a message. That is, if the appropriate operational development is blind, then in this case the appropriate anti - corruption body, organized by crime, gives a signal to the National Bank: Stop! Actually, it's a possible crime. In this case, it's suggested that we don't put things in perspective at all. What, then, will be a tool for this body to work if it does not even have an outlet for operational information, for some information, what is being done in the country? So this project is by no means acceptable. Let's do this: close off. Let the entire capital we have outlawed be legalized with us in Ukraine, let it be. Then you can talk about that, and we're all white and fluffy, and everyone's good and nobody wants to mess up our budget system. We have too many strangers, both inside and outside the country, who are watching and sleeping and see how to enrich Ukraine. And so most of our oligarchs view Ukraine as an industrial field. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u11	Gregory Smythech, please. Gregory Yudkoymovich, your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I may not agree with my colleague Behemah on a few occasions with regard to leaving the system that is in operation today in terms of controlling currency transactions and so on. Look, I get the impression that we, in the Supreme Council, have a Committee on Organized Crime, we have a representative in every department, we have all the offices with rights: the D.A., the D.A., the tax office, the police, all of them dealing with organized crime. And let's all do it, these organs are going to be directed to support the development of the national manufacturer. That's what I got.? We know that this has happened, that in every country and in our society, including society, a certain category of people can create something in the material sector of our economy. Not many people like that. Experts estimate that up to 3 percent of those 3 percent are able to create real jobs today, the real sector, and work. Let's better create conditions for them and support them to create, not create an organ that has to control them and live accordingly. Why do we have a completely private sector in all sectors of the economy, and why do we have a repressive machine several times larger than the Soviet Union? At the time, there was total property, state property, and, of course, socialism. I understand then the functions of law enforcement. I don't understand why law enforcement is supposed to do this today. Not to be in the real sector, if they're working, they shouldn't be in there at all. I support this bill because it's one of the projects that's designed to create certain conditions that don't flow money from us, and on the contrary, we should have money. And we're long overdue in the Supreme Council. And that bill, which I passed four years ago, lies after my first reading in the Supreme Council and Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have repeated several times: "It must be submitted to the Supreme Council." The Supreme Council should take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u13	Here we have to continue the talk in this regard, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u14	And we need to make a decision in this regard so that we can legalize and give peace of mind to those people who are capable of doing something. What are we talking about?? Powered. Criminal, criminal. Look what we're looking at. Ukraine is completely criminal. But we don't have to humiliate our people like that. You don't have to scare businessmen. We don't have organized crime! If so, let certain authorities deal with certain individuals. And we need to close the border for those criminals who came from the Caucasus to us -- this is going to be the real sector. And in the economy, leave her alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u15	Hanushtak is transferring the right to speak to Stanislav Arjevetina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I share the opinion of the previous speaker that by administrative means we will not be able to stop the great outflow of capital abroad. By the way, Mr. Smittuch has registered a good bill for us to make an amnesty. Jacinek suggested that we make legalization. It's been all over Europe. And we also need to take this path to allow the money to be returned to us. And they're going to work in our economy. I share the idea that we should not make administrative warnings, that we should create conditions for the subjects to work freely and not look for better conditions in offshores. As far as this bill is concerned. I also share the idea that there is no need to submit to the investigating authorities as a result and when it comes only to obtaining a license. Notice, today the National Bank is doing a total audit with the banking system and is the currency controller of our country. Because all the currency contracts, you know, have a return date, you get an individual permit, and the National Bank just keeps reporting on the special authorities to fight organized crime if there are significant amounts defined by law, that's right: if there are large contracts, large amounts, that's reported, and that's what's left. But what, when getting trouble to report, why? It's a lot of licensed operations, why should we all file without exception? Once again, the National Bank personally controls these transactions, with large amounts that we have determined by law, sending information to the relevant authorities. The National Bank is obliged to give the investigator, or the court, all relevant information. I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I'll remind you again. From the faction? Wait a minute. Please, Valery Beales, you may be right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u18	I'll take two lines. First. Regarding those who say they're making, I can tell you that there are only 13 people in the country who own 37 percent of the gross domestic product, when in the States 400 billion people have only 10 percent of the GDP, so make your conclusions. And one more thing. In the first half of the year, the country bought 7 million tons of coke coal for almost $2 billion and exported 220 dollars per tonne abroad, with almost 9 million tons in the country, and no one takes it, and it's cheaper than 50 dollars, and we're talking about, you see, we can't stop the flow of capital, the more in foreign currency. You're lying! So our faction will not support such things.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u19	Hanushtak from BUT, Argevite from "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense". So please, Terrence, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, our faction is outraged by what we have just heard from Deputy Smitush from the Party of the Regions. Literally, it was said that criminals came from the Caucasus. It's an image of the peoples living in the Caucasus, it's the same thing as "the face of Caucasian nationality." We are definitely against such an uproar of international hostility, and if he wants to find criminals, let him see who enjoys these villas, let him go to Mezigir and all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us focus exclusively on our work and give no reason to be criticized. Dear colleagues, let me remind you once again of the committee's conclusion. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be returned to the subject-matter of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The main scientific and expert administration is more firm in its conclusions, proposing that the bill be rejected at all. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am voting first on the proposal that is in line with the Rules on the adoption of a draft law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Organizational and Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime in regard to the Simplification of Licensing of Currency Transactions (registration No. 10709). Please vote. [[16:17:15]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear National MPs, the draft Law on Service in Local Self-Government has been announced for consideration. [[new editor]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Justice, Inn Jemelyanov. And the deputy was Raven, and they switched, yes, the reporter. Deputy Justice Minister, Raven. And the co-reporter is Demcishen Vasil from the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[16:18:05]] For 216 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of the draft law is to update the methodological and regulatory framework in the services of local self-government bodies, which will help to build a professional and effective service in Ukraine in local self-government bodies that will ensure the effective functioning of local self-government bodies and provide them with quality services to citizens. The draft law proposes to improve the conditions for the service of local self - government authorities, the order of its passage and termination, the legal status of officials of local self - government bodies, and the principles of their social and legal protection. The project proposes a new classification of positions in local governments. Yes, positions in local authorities are expected to be divided into groups and subgroups within the classification of public service posts. The list of service principles is complemented by the principle of political impartiality. The bill provides for the extension of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Service and Legislation on Work for Officials of Local Self-Government in certain matters. The adoption of a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government will contribute to the comprehensive reform of local governance and the establishment of a professional, politically neutral and effective service in local self-government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u23	Thank you, too. From the committee, please report. Vasil Vasilovitch Demčishen is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u24	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a colleague, discussed the bill of service in local governments on May 16, this year. Overall, the idea of a substantial improvement in the legislation on self-government services in connection with the change in the mechanism for regulating the public service, introduced and adopted by Parliament on November 17th last year by the Law on State Service, is supported, taking into account the relationship between the relevant spheres of regulation. At the same time, we note that on March 16th of this year and April 25th, a series of advisory and local self-government measures were carried out, a round table, which discussed carefully all the positions of the bill, which, I say, are generally supported, but at the same time there are many very significant shortcomings, particularly with regard to the salaries of self-government officials and the conformity of their executive authorities. I want to point out that there are a lot of references to the committee from representatives of local governments, associations and so on about this bill. And unfortunately, there's a lot of criticism. So the committee at its meeting, after considering the matter, decided to invite the Supreme Council to send the bill for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u25	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in. Yes. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Then Sergei Gordienko will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, the MP's reform group for the future is going to support this P.I. on the first reading. Surely there are some observations. We read the conclusion of our committee of experts. However, you know what we're introducing 10 ranks of government officials in local government, well, against, for example, nine active today in the public service system -- that might be a good thing. Perhaps it is good that positions such as the elected office of local self - government or administrative office are introduced. But it's, you know, it's an aneurysm. Today, the very big problem of local self - government is the lack of funding. Total lack of funding. If, let's open our eyes, even in public service bodies in the 2012 budget, we've got 9-10 months worth of expenses protected, if you look at them in places. What will hold them back? That's a big problem. And there's not a word about it. And we think that the second reading needs to be focused on that. Everything else is written, in our view, flawless, normal, normal procedure, normal approach. Yes, it was really necessary to approach in this way. The group will support this bill in the first reading. But secondly, we're told, we think we need to go pretty far into this bill, from the point of view of the sources and direction of financing these positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u27	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. The next one will be Ganushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, respected officials of local self - government! All authorities of Ukraine’s local self - government, associations of local self - government authorities, strongly deny the adoption of the bill. The proposed bill does not improve in many positions, but ignores the Constitution itself and the ratified Charter on Ukraine's local self-government is a turn-on to local self-government rights. He places excessive control of government authorities over local governments. In it, officials are artificially separated from the local authorities. Even the notion of “a self-governance person” is out of circulation, although the Constitution treats it that way. He is of a punitive nature, and many restrictions are imposed without compensation or material incentives. For years the salary has not been raised and today even cynically can be read in today's draft law that the project has been in force since 1 January 2013, except for articles 28-32, when the wages that apply to wages are raised, they have to enter into force from 1 January 2015, which means, in practice, territorial reform will be carried out, district, rural and rural councils will be eliminated, and those who will remain only then will be paid salary raised. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will not support this bill, and on behalf of officials and associations of local self-government authorities invites you not to support it, but rather to send it to the Cabinet of Ministers for work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u29	Yuri Hanustzak, Faction of Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u30	Please tell Ollie Bodnar, she's better off criticizing this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u31	Olga Bodnar, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u32	Olga Bodnar, Yulia Block Timoshenko "The Fatherland". Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Radios and TV sets! You know, today we have stability achieved, and perhaps this brick for this stability is even closer to the present power in order to eliminate total local self-government. We've been with you before, and we've seen how the current authority eliminates the council, and we've already seen that it's going to be distributed in a large way. And I think, really, the right colleague who just said I have some kind of growth planned in 2015, a possible increase in the wages of those who still survive and want to live in those corridors where mice don't want to live anymore. So I think that just before the election, that leftovers of those honest, decent municipal officials are going to be added some crumbs to maybe sweeten that pill. Because, in fact, right now, we're seeing with you a painting that the municipal service is not prestigious, so what do we have if it's not prestigious? People don't get paid, professionals don't want to go there, demands are huge, they have big demands and laws to fight corruption. They cannot provide themselves in any way materially or in any other way. I want to say that if we're going to see an increase in the minimum wage of 1.6, what we want with you is respectable colleagues, from that employee of the municipal body. How would a person who would appeal to him get qualified help if this employee at this time had no right to earn, fake, he would just sit on his naked salary and think how to find threads to wrap his socks, I apologize and be happy with every penny. This is the struggle of the present power against corruption. I'm in this bill and my team, and all we see is that municipal authorities are now being put on their knees, completely destroyed and centralized.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u33	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u34	Thank you very much. Yulia Tymoshenko's bloc will vote unequivocally against the bill as anti-State.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. The committee's conclusion is once again a reminder, to return the subject to the right of a legislative initiative for further development. This is the same opinion that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration holds in its conclusions. Again, the first vote is the regulatory proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Service Act in local self-government. [[Registration number 9673]] Please vote. [[16:28:48]] For-38 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[16:29:16]] For 232 Decision taken. The bill is being sent to the Cabinet of Ministers for processing. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and on the Central Executive Authorities. [[on the activities of ministries and central executive bodies]] I'm voting on the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[16:29:53]] For 219 Decision taken. Reporter – Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Pavlenko, co-rapporteur – First Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u36	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, the bill is implementing a more effective state medium-term planning and medium-term budgetary planning at the level of the chief budget administrators. The bill provides for the creation of conditions for the transition to a new ideology of strategic planning and public responsibility at the level of government institutions, consistent with the logic of administrative and budgetary reform. This is achieved through the implementation of the system of medium-term and annual plans, i.e. the medium-term plans for the Ministry's activities, as the main organs for the formation and enforcement of state policy, are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. In order to ensure the implementation of the ministry's policy, the minister approves the plans for the ministry's work. Modern principles of public control of government institutions are introduced by establishing the obligation to make plans public. The bill provides for the right of the Government to approve such plans and to determine how they are to be developed and implemented, to harmonize the terminology of the budget code and the Central Executive Authority Act with the provision of medium-term plans. The draft was preceded by a study of the experience of other countries on the methodology and organization of planning processes at the level of government institutions to implement the best practices in this field. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u37	Thank you, too. Olga Borisovna, please position the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u38	Olga Bodnar, Yulia Block Timoshenko "The Fatherland". Dear colleagues, in the previous bill we saw how. municipal authority from the present power. By the way, the bill doesn't even mention the language, about. State - language optionality. The bill continues to be similar to that of present - day authorities. The State Building Committee considered the bill on June 16, 2012. The purpose and basic positions of the bill have just been reported, but the desired and real are different things. To the conviction of most members of the committee, the design and ideas of the subject of the legislative initiative in this particular material are unsuccessful and require substantial adjustment and development. In general, by supporting efforts to improve the quality of planning, the committee points out that the bill does not reflect its forecasting character, especially for the next two periods. In fact, the bill establishes a relationship between the ministries and the Cabinet, a direct administrative subordination that goes beyond the constitutional rules of control and coordination, since ministries are an integral part of the system of executives. This highlighted the inadmissibility of substituting concepts and replacing all the multifaceted meaningful activities of the Ministry with only one financial aspect, despite its full importance. The committee noted the inappropriate flexibility of the proposed management system, its lack of adaptability to unpredicted calls, out-of-office situations, or so forth. We have the same support for our view of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. They advocate the need for the return of the draft bill to work, pointing out its non-conformity with the constitutional principles of Kabmin's relations with the central executive authorities, excessive centralization, restrictions on the independence of ministries. It is also noted that instead of drawing up work plans in all directions, the Ministry will plan its activities only as a subject of budgetary relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u39	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u40	not alone, but because of the superior executive authority. Moreover, the situation that has been passed is not taken into account by the law of Ukraine to amend some of the legislative instruments in the software system. It is not taken into account that both the President's Annual Message and the annual State Economic and Social Development Programme are excluded from the system of economic and social development forecasting and programming documents. On the basis of a broad, comprehensive discussion, our committee approved recommending to the Supreme Council the project submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a result of the first reading of the return of the sub? the subject of the right of legislative initiative to further develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up. People's deputies' names on the board, please. Blackwolf Alexander, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u42	Alexander Blackwolf. Dear friends, whenever the Supreme Council is trying to introduce some innovation, a sufficiently well-worked planning mechanism, I mention such a very interesting thought about the planning system, it was once formulated by planning specialists, and the next thing it says is that the plan is a tool designed by humans to replace random miscalculations with random miscalculations, random miscalculations by people who don't understand. This is entirely true of this bill. Yes, indeed, we can view it as an attempt by the Minister's Cabinet to take such a rematch in the President's Administration, which has recorded itself as the main programming document of the President's message, and here he is not really mentioned. But in general, this simply brings, like the idea of sending the presidents a completely stupid, like a software document, it generally brings sadness. And who knows how it's planned for us, when we can't plan a budget for a year, to make plans and projections for a few years is a waste of time and money. And with regard to the budget and the Economic and Social Development Programme, they've never been implemented as far as they were intended. And we had two budget sequesters in 2010, and in the next 2011-2012, we had an increase adjustment, which is a very low quality of planning. And when the low quality of planning is multiplied by another low quality of planning, and there's another low quality of planning, we're only going to get a lower quality of planning. Therefore, this bill should not be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u43	Fedun, please. None. Donchczak. None. The faction's written down and the man hasn't spoken, then that's it. Well, next time you come forward, please, Yuri Ivanovich. You're still on today. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I recall the committee's conclusion: To return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The main science and export administration is of the same mind. The first proposal for adoption of the bill is put to the vote. "To amend Ukraine's laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and on central executive authorities", registration number 10457. Please vote. [[16:38:08]] For 230 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, your next bill of amendment to article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens on receiving information from co-owners of a multi-room building, 10547 registration number. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:38:51]] For 214 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Dmitry Crow. The committee will be represented by Yuri Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens is designed to implement the 2012 National Action Plan for the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State". [[on getting information from co-owners of the apartment building]] The bill is designed to amend article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens, granting joint owners the right to receive information on property subjects on housing and non-residential premises in the form of an extract from the State Register of Real Estate Rights. This bill is very necessary, please support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u45	Thank you, too. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev is the deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy has considered the bill and recommends that it be adopted only on first reading. By the way, the view of the Chief Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is similar. Why is that? If you look at the table, you will see that the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to receive extracts from the State Register for each owner of a multi-storey house. This would mean that any person would come to any dwelling in a multi-storey house and, through it, would receive any kind of support for each owner. That's not right. The Committee is of the view that this right should only be given to the association of homeowners in order for them to organize their work and to be able to manage the home to receive such information. It is therefore recommended that it be adopted on first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Please state the names of the national MPs. Radovec, reform for the future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u48	Please pass the word to a colleague of Gashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u49	Gushuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future supports the legislative initiative to allow co-owners of a multi-family building to obtain information from the State Register of Real Estate Rights on property subjects of residential property and non-residential housing in such a house. Such information is necessary in a variety of situations, ranging from force majeure to the need to identify the real owner of the apartment in the creation of a pool of joint owners of the apartment building. So this law is designed to protect the rights of co-owners of apartment buildings. In addition, we agree with the proposal made by the profile committee that, in order to avoid possible abuses, it is necessary to clarify how information on property subjects in housing and nonresidential housing in a multi - apartment building can be provided only in isolated cases when the building’s owners are united. Taking into account the above-mentioned parliamentary group "Reforms for the Future" will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u51	Thank you, too. Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one will be Paul’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u52	Alexander Blackwolf. Dear friends, I think in this case it's worth supporting the Ministry's initiative that it's the right bill. I’m a little surprised to learn from the profile committee that it’s only the unification of citizens, not every citizen. I think there are attempts here to make certain limits to the rights of each of the residents of this house. And the second previous observation, I also find it a little bit strange that not all and non-living rooms should be information. It is with nonresidential facilities that the most abuses are. And it's the most appropriate area for bribery, for real estate crimes that go by both residential and maintenance offices, and for other bodies that often provide absolutely groundlessly and for purposes that are totally inconvenient with neither the legislation nor the wishes of the inhabitants of these buildings to the different people that should not be given. And that's exactly what the information is about to end this relationship. Because whoever is opposed to every inhabitant of the house being able to get information about any non-living housing in Kiev, is actually covering bribery and crime in the area of property relations. So I think we should take it exactly the way the Ministry proposes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u53	Thank you, too. Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u54	Andrey Pavlovsky, the faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Please give the floor to the deputy from the "Fatherland" party Yuri Hanushtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u55	Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u56	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, well, they generally say that in civilized countries, information about the owner is open to access and based on a land cadastre. And all this information has to be open because the neighbors want to know who's on the side. So this project, in general, is far from complete, because in addition to the fact that there must be an OSBB, by the way, in the person to whom OSBB, we have to ask the question. Another aspect that needs to be is not only about owners but also about owners and users. Because very often even non-residential facilities, they are leased. And even when we know of the owner, we don’t know who is actually renting or to whom to present appropriate claims in case anything happens. So this project has to go in a complex way. And I'm wondering why it wasn't handed over like the Cabinet of Ministers said. Well, I'm not surprised at all, because there are currently no professionals left in the Cabinet who can analyze the problem and offer solutions. Yeah, there's enough viewers, and there's no experts. Well, well, hilo, well, cut down the Donetsk land, doesn't give normal professionals there. And that's why we have so few, such unfinished projects, that in principle it's not surprising, based on the principle of shaping the composition of our government and the system of government management in general. I'm sorry, but what we have is what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u57	Fedun refuses. All, dear fellows, then the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert management is in solidarity with the committee, and they also propose to accept it as a basis. A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, concerning the receipt of information by joint owners of a multi-family house. [[Registration number 10547]] Please vote. [[16:47:57]] For 262 Decision taken. Yes, Your Honor, it is now proposed that you consider the draft Law on Corporateization of State Enterprises. [[Registration number 1107]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:48:41]] For 214 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Pavlenko, co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Economic Policy Committee Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u58	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, a bill designed to regulate the process of converting state-owned enterprises, including those that are not privatized and strategically important to state-owned shareholders. The project suggests that state-owned shareholders be formed by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, other authorized authorities. In doing so, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine agrees with the decision of the authorized authorities. In doing so, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine agrees with the decision of the authorized authorities to corporateize those banned from privatization and strategic enterprises. The organizational security of the corporate process is relied upon by the founder of the commission for the reorganization of the enterprise, which is based on its decision. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approves the organization, formation and operation of the Supervisory Board and the Audit Board of the Society, as well as the typical statute of the State Shareholder Society. The bill also defines the specificities of corporate enterprise, such as with regard to the completion of the corporate process, the legitimate consequences of which may be the alienation of business property, the reduction of statutory capital created by the company and the reduction of the number of employees, only possible with the permission of the founder to submit a reorganisation commission. The statutory capital of companies established on the basis of property of state-owned enterprises not subject to privatization is subject to the right of economic knowledge of such property and the personal composition of the Supervisory Board, and the tasks of voting members of the Supervisory Board of the Society are approved by the authorities. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u59	Thank you, too. Mr. Alexander Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u60	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Economic Policy pointed out that the project should set general standards for all cases of corporate enterprise, as well as to regulate the characteristics of corporate enterprise, which is part of the individual spheres of governance. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine determines that, as a result of the first reading of the Ukrainian Act on Corporateization of State Enterprises, it is appropriate to return to work on the work that takes into account the comments made, by the way, they are expressed on two pages. I would like to add that the process of corporateizing state enterprises has been regulated by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. The president of Ukraine commissioned the government to prepare a law on corporateism, it would be logical for an appropriate law to be adopted instead of this regulation on the order of corporations. But the law is being passed, and the rule in the second article, the second point is "the order of corporateization is being established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine," and the logical question is why would this law then not be all that is regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers to determine in this law? This is a rhetorical question, and the committee members didn't listen to it, which I expressed and decided to adopt this bill as a basis, and I can say from my point of view that the bill does not essentially carry anything in itself, because everything is regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u61	Yes, dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Yes, Andrey Pavlowski, the BUT-Paternity faction. Then - Yuri Karmazin will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u62	Andrey Pavlovski, Yulia Block Timoshenko - "The Fatherland." Please pass the word to Yuri Hanushtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u63	Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u64	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it looks like we're putting a car in the middle of a horse -- we don't have any general rules on how corporateism is done, what the hand of the state is. I mean, you understand how the government's stock is being washed away. So in normal countries, the monopoly goes to the fact that a commanding society is being formed, that is, the state still has a role, and dividends are already being paid more for shares there. There's no such thing. We say in advance that if someone is assigned to the Supervisory Board, we will not just test him, and we will also control him by agreeing on some conclusions, what to say, what not to say? If a person is already appointed, his State may trust him in some way. I mean, in this respect, I see enough serious evil on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers, because you can't do that. Then again, the question is, how many stock companies are we going to have? In general, they say they're dots. Why is the standard statute, rather than the statute, approved for each enterprise? Can I explain why? Because when the default is approved, then the default is the default. And then, when it's real, then it turns out that the Ministry doesn't control how this stockholder society works anymore. This provides sufficient grounds for an increased interpretation of the activities of such enterprises. I see such a hidden place.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u65	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, our Ukraine faction, People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u66	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, I would like to draw your attention. Obviously, we don't have an economic crisis, obviously we don't have all the printing machines, we don't have teachers and doctors, and even, nurses write statements that they want to go on vacation because there's no money in the protected articles, it's not enough. Thus, the government of the followers of the predecessors was guided, so this government gives these little laws. Look, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I passed the previous law on the state registration of goods rights: two sentences are incomplete, only the Prime Minister is being introduced. Having adopted the previous law, amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations are being made, too. I took the previous laws and took this conclusion, because the law cannot be called, it is difficult, I do not want to offend the legislators. The concept of corporateism is given in the second article, and only five articles, at the sixth time, are in operation, all of it, the whole law. With a law to which a separate Law on the Order of Conduct of Corporations should be adopted, even though it is committed here to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because of this, the law on the administration of public property objects directly in this law, in article 3. And you had to change if you wanted to define that corporate is turning state-owned businesses into state-owned shareholders, and that's the whole point of this law? If you want to give it, you can do it in that law. Why do we build such a system? Why we don't make normal codes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u67	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, the law is contradictory, and I have to figure out the following. We will not vote in favour of this bill in the first reading on the following issues. Look at this. The bill provides that the bill. The law regulates the legal, economic and organizational relations associated with the transformation of state-owned commercial enterprises into a state-owned company and aimed at ensuring economic security and protecting the interests of the State. [[Here's the main thing.]] You can talk about anything else: the default statute and all that. The form in which this is happening, the sequence -- what colleagues have said today -- the national MPs who have been turned aside from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine -- has been preserved, even established by law, why then the law is passed. But I'd like to pay attention to something else. Today, you remember when a law was passed on essentially the corporateization of a state-owned enterprise called the Crucifixion. There was such a thing. When. the right to have a knowledge of agriculture is passed on to the institution that. For the property, it means what it's going to be. has a new legal status. This law provides for about the same thing. So an enterprise that doesn't have the right to be privatized because of its strategic significance for the state can get a property complex with the right of economic knowledge, that is, 100 percent to manage that property. And I'm going to remind you that on the right-hand side, you can be estranged, sold and so forth. It's a hidden form of sale of property to state enterprises, whatever it's called. We'll never vote for that. If there was a different norm, the property complex is transferred to the lease from the corporate transformation of the company from the commercial to the stock exchange, there would be no questions. I think the purpose of this bill is a little different, it's hidden. A parliamentary group called Reforms for the Future cannot vote in favour of similar initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u69	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Contrary to this, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority believes that the bill should be returned to pre-work. I bet the vote on a committee proposal that is and is in line with the requirements of the Enactment Rules on the basis of the draft Law on the Corporateization of State Enterprises. The first is the proposal for acceptance as a basis for the first reading. [[17:00:25]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Why don't we vote back for sub-processing? an object of the right of legislative initiative. I think you can make that offer. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal to return the bill to the sub? the subject of the legislative initiative's right to work. [[Registration number 11057]] Please vote. [[17:01:02]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, I would like your attention. The factions of the four have proposed that we now consider three bills relating to changes to the State budget, namely, 11067 for the National Commission's expenditure, which regulates the state's financial services markets, 11093 for changes to the name of the budget programme, and 11179 for the financing of the judicial administration, as well as the allocation of funds for compensation for medicines for people with hypertonic diseases, there are 40 million funds. If you don't mind, I'd like you to support us now. The more they are there, the more they stand a little bit, but the request of the factions here is now. Therefore, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Stately is being announced for consideration. Name. The People's Party faction, the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party and the Reforms for the Future, and the faction of the regions. The MP's group. Dear colleagues, three factions and one MP. Thank you for correcting me. The draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is announced for consideration, as well as the draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on the State Budget for 2012 is registration number 11093 and the draft Act is registration number 11179. If you agreed to do so, you would consider these three questions in a simplified way: interviewers, then co-reporters, and discussions together. I'm voting on the proposal to deal with these three issues in a package under a reduced procedure. Please vote. If we are related, we can combine our consideration of matters. Please vote. They relate to the same question. [[17:03:47]] For 231 Decision taken. The rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies: Igor Prasolov, Vladislav Lukyanov, First Deputy Minister of Finance of Merkovsky. The correspondent is the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valérie Baranov. Let's get to work. Igor Mikolaiovich, please. Prepare the next report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u70	The President-in-chief, with respect to his colleagues, is the purpose of adopting this law to resolve the issue of financial security for the activities of the National Commission, which governs the public market for financial services. By Presidential Decree No. 01070/21 of 23 November 2011, the State Commission for the Regulation of the Financial Services Market was abolished, and Presidential Decree No. 01070/21 established the National Commission for State Regulation on the Financial Services Market. The cost of ensuring the functioning of the National Commission for Public Regulation in the Financial Services Market is not foreseen to cover the accounts payable of the Secretary-General, which will result in the failure to complete the liquidation procedures of the Secretary-General and the failure to ensure the full functioning of the Nazcomfinese. Dear colleagues, please support the proposed bill on first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u71	Thank you. Anatoly Merkowski, please. Lukyanov is not here, he will speak for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The government has prepared and submitted to the Supreme Council a draft law amending the State Budget, and the bill relates to an increase in the expenditure of the State Judicial Administration under the General Fund by 594.5 million dollars, while reducing such expenditure at the expense of the Special Fund by 594.5 million dollars. That is to say, the total increase in government expenditure is not going to happen, but it's just the replacement of the funding sources set out in the 2012 Budget Act, the amount of money. The need for such changes is explained by the fact that the income recorded in the special budget fund is unfortunately not being adjusted. The other one. We plan to redistribute expenditure between individual budget programmes, namely, to reduce the costs of the State Court Decisions Program for Judges by 8 million dollars and to channel these costs to court funding, as well as to set up a new budget programme for 40 million dollars, namely, the State Budget Fund for Local Budgets, to partially offset the cost of medical treatment for people with hypertension. Thus, at the expense of these funds, we will be able to partially compensate for the cost of medical treatment for these categories of persons. According to our calculations, this will increase the availability of appropriate medical supplies for nearly 12 million hypertensive patients. The source of this increase, 40 million dollars, and a total fund of 594.5, is the funds that come from the National Bank as an excess of income over expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valerius Baranov. Let's say the position and the decision of the committee after this Bill 11093.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u74	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, Budget Committee at its meeting on September 4th, reviewed the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget of Ukraine at number 11067. This bill has already been mentioned by the author, and our committee proposes to support it, to adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u75	What, are you all right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u76	It's the first law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u77	Let's all do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u78	All right, all right. Bill number 11179. Our committee also considered him at its meeting. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority recommends it to us as a basis and as a whole. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill No. 11179 on the basis of the first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account the need to clarify the sum of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget in the text of the bill and the additions thereto, taking into account the revised and adopted analogous bills in the current plenary week prior to the consideration of the bill. In the event of the adoption of this bill, the Budget Committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, shall, in the drafting of the law, submit to the text and Appendices the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications relating to the committee's proposals for the bill. Please support this bill. And Bill 11093, author of which the Lukyanovs, commissioned me to report it to him. I'm from him, and from the committee, I'm bringing you to your knowledge that in order to increase coal production, it's necessary to have 150-160 active lava in the work every month and to increase the pressure on the discharges. To do the planned work, it takes technology. And one of the main problems in the coal sector, which has not been solved for a long time, is the sequential restocking and upgrading of the core funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u79	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u80	We have mining equipment that can still work, but we need capital repairs. The bill is designed to solve the problem. To this end, it is proposed in Appendix 3 to the State Budget Act 2012 that the name of the budget programme under code 1101,200 be supplemented by the words "as well as the financing of the mining equipment renovation programme, which will allow for the expansion of the direct use of the funds without increasing the amount of expenditure under the specified budget programme. The committee considered the matter. The main scientific expert office stresses the need to draw the Government’s conclusion on the bill. Minfin's backing up, too. At the same time, the bill requires editorial and technical legal clarifications according to the budgetary methodology, particularly regarding the clarification of its name and the name of the budget programme, as well as the presentation of the legislative proposal directly in the text of the bill. Relevant clarifications are given in the suggestions made by the committee on the subject. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill number 11093 to be adopted as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u81	Yes. The report's done, right? Please sign up, Your Honor, to discuss these bills. Yes. Show me the names of the people's deputies. Grivkovsky refuses. Jaroslav Suhi refuses. Oh, no, he'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I'm brief. Undoubtedly, these bills need to be supported, especially the bill that Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky reported, since you know that one of the main problems that concerns our voters today is the problem of normal access to the health system. Especially are complaints about high - road drugs. If we can actually compensate people for the drugs used in hypertension, we will take a big step forward in filling the real legislative content of the President's social initiatives. So I propose to support both of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u83	Yes. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then there will be the performance of Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u84	Honourable national MPs, Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable citizens, these changes to the budget provided for in Law 11179 sound very good to allow the availability of appropriate medical supplies to nearly 12 million patients. But what do we have in reality? 40 million dollars for 12 million people. We have 3.3 bracelets for a hypertensive patient. What needs to be done and done in the world is understandable. But how does it work? A draft order from the Ministry of Health has already been prepared for the appointment of seven medical devices. So in practice these 40 million will go into the pockets of certain manufacturers of these drugs. And of course, one person can get, another person can't get, and that will only lead to social tension. This question certainly needs to be resolved, but not in this way. Because it's really just to make it sound. Well, you know, three bracelets for the patient, 12 million for the sick, 40 million for the bracelet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u85	Yuri Hanusztak, please, the Faction BUT, the Fatherland. Who's going to be the faction? Volenec. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u86	Jury's shame, BUT's Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, well, in general, the fact that this voice suddenly introduces draft changes to the state budget is a very disturbing signal, the system is not working well. Reminding me, the Budget Code says that changes in the income section should be made at the rate of nine months. There are no results yet. So we have to see that there's a change in income, not in specific sources. Of course, from a populist point of view, it is best to give a spear in the middle of the projects to the one who begs for tears. There, to finance health care, there are teachers, but there are also projects that are lobbying, and there are bright projects. The same project as the last 11093. So from the government budget, we're going to finance the appetites of private owners, of the same mining companies. Because if today's program is about borrowing, it's going to add direct funding from the state budget, we want to add. Well, so interestingly enough, I understand that you need something to convince your constituents, so they decided to convince the voters not as much as their owners. Besides, what do I see is problematic, first, in court? When we calculated the salary, why did we not make the first and second articles of the budget in full terms, as stated in the budget code, regarding the protected articles? No, something put it in a special fund. The Special Fund is an expense that depends heavily on whether it comes from the source or not. We've hung up the entire administration, which means it's very bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u87	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u88	This special fund was planned and very poorly planned for budgeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u89	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich, thank you. The Communist faction is entitled to a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u90	Eugeny Wolynec, the Communist faction, the town of Schachtersk. The Communist faction will support both the rehabilitation of children and the modernization of coal enterprises. The only thing we call for is to strengthen control over the use of funds and not to achieve such a situation that we are modernizing the coal industry in the state account, and in time, coal enterprises will be sold for free, privatized. That if privatization were to take into account the extent to which the volume had been privatized and what money had been wet. In order not to make it possible for us to sponsor the oligarchs from the State budget. I understand that they have enough of their money, so let's sponsor those industries that are in dire need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is over, this is Vladimir Karpuk speaking correctly, so maybe if the Supreme Council supports this bill, where it is about allocating funds that are hypertensives, so that the committee can control how these funds will be implemented. So if you're going to make that decision, the law will be approved, I think we're going to give the committee a profile right away. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the proposal to adopt a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[Registration number 11067]] Please vote. [[17:18:39]] For 232 Decision taken. So the law was passed. The proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2012 to amend the name of the budget programme is put to the vote. [[Registration number 11093]] Please vote. [[17:19:13]] For 262 The law is passed. The proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2012 is put to the vote. [[Registration number 11179]] Please vote. [[17:19:43]] For 256 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on product safety is being announced for consideration. The proposal from the committee to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:20:16]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Pavlenko. The Coroner is the head of the Economic Policy Committee of Alexy Plotnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s laws on product safety, aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of prevention and prejudice to dangerous, inefficient, falsified or counterproductive products in the consumer market. The bill provides for the removal of rules that significantly reduce consumer rights protection and conflict with market protection practices against dangerous products in European countries, namely, a 10-day warning of a planned action on the need for a central executive authority to agree to a non-planned action. It is also proposed to define a mechanism for dealing with products that, in accordance with the requirements of the Consumer Rights Act, has been removed from implementation and to strengthen the responsibility of manufacturers and implementers for the introduction of counterfeit products. The adoption of this law will result in the protection of the constitutional right of Ukrainians to obtain safe and quality food, as well as in the prevention of the responsibility of those who produced, to produce inequitable and dangerous products. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u93	Alexy Plonikov, from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u94	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 4 September 2012 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on Product Safety, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in accordance with 18 January of this year. [[Registration number 9733]] The main objective of this law is to improve the effectiveness of prevention systems and to prejudice the arrival of dangerous, inadequate counterfeit or counterfeit products on the consumer market. The general conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: the first reading of the draft could be based on the comments it made. Taking all this into account, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on product safety, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and adopted as a basis from 18 January 2012. [[Registration number 9733]] Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. I see that there is a need to exchange ideas. Yes, name, please show me. Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine" faction, "National Self-Defense". Xenia Leapina, please. Then Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u96	Xenia Lapina, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I note that this whole bill is actually written for the sake of only one paragraph, namely the amendments to article 22 of the Law on Basic Principles of State Oversight, Control in the Field of Economic Activity. In fact, it simply narrows down the application of a law that regulates the way government controls are handled. And when it comes to the fact that we're canceling the order of conduct established by this law -- I'm stressing -- of planned checks, it means that planned checks will cease to be planned, and they'll become, again, a war against everyone, and not even as much war against everyone as mass corruption. My understanding is that the controlling authorities have come up with some dark times, and they have run out of cash. Because otherwise, I can't explain why they suddenly decided, after a year and a half, that there was this standard, so not just to adjust it, but actually cancel it. It's just going to be total corruption again, and we're going to read again in all the ratings how much this corruption has increased. I firmly oppose the adoption of such standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u97	Katerina Vaszczuk, faction. People's Party. Then Gregory Smitch will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I do not agree with the previous proposal that businesses should know in advance, especially food, those who prepare food products — carnivores, milk factories, other food establishments — in two weeks, they will be tested on such a day and at such an hour. It'll be absolutely all right there. We have to get the food system in order. Even in supermarkets. We see endlessly in programs how counterfeiting is sold to people who do not have quality goods; goods in which the expiration date is falsified. Is that healthy? I'm our people, our children. And we can't go on indefinitely using the right to protect what we're protecting the manufacturer. Protect yourself, but let them prepare quality products. No one's going to get hurt. If he hides anything, he won't worry. And three times you freeze the food, and it's bad to wash it in a margantovka and to teach it again, and all the other things that people see on TV, and then at meetings they say, "What are you doing, who invented it, what are you announcing in advance? It's all washed up, cleaned up, did you come? We have to come when there is a quality of disturbing signals, or there is confirmation of inadequacies of work.” This law will give such an opportunity. That's why we're going to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u99	Garbage, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be Ganushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, if you watch our television, especially the channel, I think, through the STB, when you touch food, there are terrible images, and, of course, neither we nor society as a whole, nor the consumer can respond positively. And you have to do something about it, because human health is more than anything. And if the health of the nation is threatened by the manufacturer, surely he must be responsible. I agree in this plan that there is a category of enterprises that do not need or need to be warned, but that we need to check or measure, or take product samples to control their quality. But I agree with the fact that this is not. It's about giving the law enforcement authorities or the authorities that have the authority to go in at any time and do any kind of testing to stimulate this corrupt activity. And here I see in this law that it's not prescribed enough, because if we're going to do another test, we have to clearly define the reasons why they can go there and check. If there is no reason to do so and the test is done, the subject is entitled to turn, and the head of the body should be responsible, not in the law. And the second question. I don't agree with these standards. If there was in the previous law, in the current law 500 percent of the party or part of the product that is forged or does not meet the technical conditions, or there is a security threat, I don't agree with the questions that lower their responsibility. That's 500 percent to translate into 5,000. What is 5,000 for a manufacturer who is supposed to be doing the same milk or cheese production? It's a zero! It's a zero! And we can't humiliate that. Therefore, the responsibility here must be clear. If we're talking about reducing the pressure on the manufacturer, then the manufacturer has to understand, reduce the pressure only if he conscientiously performs sanitation, environmental and other technological needs. If he violates, he should be held accountable even to the responsibility that is now taking place in China. And then there won't be this abuse, then there won't be this horrible painting on TV.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u101	Thank you. Yuri Hanustzak, “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u102	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have a huge suspicion that this whole bill has only been made in order to make the planned verifications of the fact that it was pre-planned. I mean, look, the End Position, that article they're referring to, it's about planned tests! Planned and preplanned anyway. But the planned tests are planned to be carried out in advance, which is what we plan to do. I mean, if an enterprise generally makes production and it's manufacturing under anti-sanitary conditions, there's no way that these anti-sanitary conditions can be fixed in 10 days. So the planned test is done in the way it's supposed to be done. And why do I have suspicion? Because, in general, the law is said to be sufficiently arbitrary, or holturous, in a large way, which is not acceptable to the executive authorities at all. Again, 5,000, why 5,000, why doesn't the same minimum wage go? And again, with the inflation and at the rate tomorrow, 5,000 -- that's going to be a penny at all. This time. Also, look below, there goes a lot of goods, then jobs and services. Well, stick to something. In this case, when it comes to talking, you have to tie yourself to "for the volume of the party," not the kind of work that's not that easy to evaluate. So it seems to me that there are enough serious lobbyist intentions here, that actually the size of bribes is too small and they want to "find" again with this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u103	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also came to a positive conclusion about this bill. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on product safety, registration number 9733. Please vote. [[17:32:23]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation regarding the performance of household obligations, registration number 11029, is being considered. The rapporteur is Vice-Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy Sergey Tihypco. At the same time, there are two more bills: 10433 and 10671, which are again reported by the Vice-Prime Minister, so this proposal, we will each look at these bills separately, but to consider these three bills immediately, because the Vice-Prime Minister shows respect for the Supreme Council. We have to meet. So Bill 11029 is announced for consideration. The Committee's proposal to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:33:30.]] For 209 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Vice-Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy Sergey Tihypco. The narrator is Yuri Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u104	Mr. President, honourable national deputies, the draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the performance of economic obligations has been designed to prevent cases of intentional evasion by legal persons, and I would like to stress, by legal persons, the obligations under credit agreements. For example, if, in 2008, local farm courts had misappropriation of credit commitments in the amount of 1 billion 600 million dollars, in 2011, 34 billion dollars. Thus, for three years the amount of wrongly executed legal obligations increased almost 20 times. This indicates that the widespread distribution of schemes for deliberately evading legal persons from repayable loans is spreading. What does this lead to? The loan portfolio is declining. In the situation that we now have with internal and external investment, it's extremely bad for the economy. In particular, the bill provides for the removal of the possibility of artificially prolonging bankruptcy cases, protecting the rights of creditors whose claims are secured, eliminating the possibility of defaulting on a legal person whose information is not available. Eliminating the ability of legal persons to evade repayments. The bill also contains another rule aimed at warning the avoidance of payments of credit funds received. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u105	Thank you, too. Yuri Mikolaiovich, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, this bill was considered at a meeting of the Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 September this year. And the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it on first reading as a basis. The Chief Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the same opinion. He's got a point. And the Committee recommends that they be removed before second reading. In fact, it consists of two parts. The first part, quite rightly said here by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, we have a serious problem when the courts decide on the recognition of contracts as invalid or as collateral contracts, and then it turns out that the borrowers remain with the loan money and the banks without the money and the bets. This is a completely wrong procedure, and the bill is addressing this issue. But there is another problem that is at stake here and that is controversial, and it needs to be examined and looked at further. This is that all creditors whose rights are secured are given the veto on the approval of the recovery plan. It's like it's a controversial thing, and we need to take a closer look at it. Because their claims do not allow other creditors to obtain any collateral, they are in line. And the creditor who has the collateral and the bail money will only go to him and no one else, he still has the veto to be approved. It's a controversial thing. The Committee therefore generally endorses the bill and proposes that it be adopted on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u107	Thank you. Yes, please sign in. Names of the national deputies. Vladimir Karpuk. Then Caplienko will perform. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u108	Please pass it on to Stanislav Arjevitina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u109	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u110	Thank you, Deputy Carpuku, for your word. I would like to say that when we say "borrower and borrower," it's not just about a bank or a banking institution or a client. A Ukrainian citizen who makes a loan to another citizen is also a debtor, acquires the status of borrower and borrower. They also acquire the right kind of farming. So that's the language in general. But the money for this, these changes, is that, you know, recently, there has been this kind of court practice when a loan agreement is declared invalid. Well, you can imagine a situation where you gave your neighbor money, a loan, yeah, a neighbor's in court, a friend or a relative is working, and he's making you a court decision and he says, "You know, our loan is invalid, I'm not going to pay you back." Please tell me what your reaction will be. So our courts have put in place this mechanism of recognition of the loan agreements themselves or of the mortgage agreements as invalid, and they don't even know what the consequences are. And you've heard the figure when from 600 million to a few tens of billions already there are non-refundable loans. To make it easier for you to vote, I will also remind you that every loan that you have invested is the cost of investors, that is, the deposits of Ukrainian citizens or other entrepreneurs. So I think the money that's been introduced in the bill about what the legal consequences of breaking or declaring a contract invalid are clearly prescribed, and I think there's a lot of rules that are direct to the courts. And you don't have to fantasize, just read this rule of law. I think very clearly and beautifully described mechanisms for implementing the recovery plan or implementing mechanism. I think it's a good suggestion that the recovery plan should work out and submit not some committee with incomprehensible functions, but still the creditors' congregations. Of course, for the second reading, it is necessary to clarify in detail how bankruptcy will be conducted, where enterprises are a state. This is about 50 percent, maybe a plank. I mean, for the first time, you can read this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u111	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Smitch will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, let's start at the top. We will support this bill in the first reading. We think he's right. Perhaps some things need to be cleaned up to the second reading. For example, a link between the amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, which amends the 86 articles, and these. The articles are settled, and 67 and 68. Maybe that's not the way to do it, but I think we can work on that for the second reading. I support the two previous positive steps that the legislative field is making to deal with today. For if it is indeed too many legal persons who ignore their obligation to repay loans they have received or have missed such a share. But we also seem to be able to anticipate the possible rejection by the courts of the recovery plan and the consequences of such a rejection. Because maybe in this bill, it also needs to be worked out in this way. In general, we support. Initiatives are innovative, initiatives are good, initiatives are needed by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u113	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be Ganushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, I have taken this word, I am not an expert in banking work, and I have never worked in this system, I do not know it. But I know one thing, and taking the opportunity that Sergey Leonidovich is here as an expert in banking, I want to ask myself personally, I think you probably share my point of view. There can and will never be a real sector of economy and economy throughout the country, especially producers, the agricultural sector, the industrial sector, to develop under the banking system that we have today. It can't be that banks have a one-sided order of typical contracts where banks can do anything and the borrower can't do anything. Question three. It can't and in no country in the world there's a special 20-30 percent year-on-year in the developed world for a short period of time, and today the economy can't function that way. Then I have a question, if we regulate the bread price, why don't we restrict banking work or regulate it on the side of the Ukrainian economy. For as many years as I've been in the Supreme Council, we're looking at a law that regulates the banking system, or protects its interests, the lobby works here specifically. All to strengthen and protect banks, they're so poor, so unhappy, they don't have any money, they're so little developing at all, but they're all about protecting their interests, so just focus on the interests and increasing the pressure on entrepreneurs. Can Ukraine’s economy continue to function like this, or not? Never. I think, and Sergey Leonidovich, I'm addressing you as part of the economic reforms in our country, our country can't develop an economic sector, especially industry, with this system of lending policies of the banking system. By the way, most banks in Ukraine don't belong to Ukraine, so they don't care, they want to choose, they want to last everything for a short time, and then at least a flood. How can this be allowed in the country? It's time to intervene.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u115	Thank you. Pancake, please, mic out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u116	Jury's shame, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! It's kind of a logic to protect the creditor, because that's where the court is found to be not real and so on, so on and so forth. But let's look at the cases that we have when people were given credit by banks in dollars, and they didn't take the currency risks and they didn't even talk about it in contracts. What are we talking about? This means misleading, in fact, about the substance of these treaties. And so when it comes to the possibility that the loan agreement might be cancelled, then it should be pointed out in which case this issue of cancellation can be considered. Not so simple that in no way can the contract be made because the creditor actually imposed the contract. This is especially true of individuals, and in view of the fact that banks are essentially engaged in monopolistic activities. I can answer why we have 24 percent. But it's very simple, because those who stand up there and who receive this dividend are extremely advantageous. One is inflation. And it's extremely convenient, because they're actually multiplying their assets by the fact that they're washing people's basic funds. Why and how can we do this? But it's very simple at the end of the day, we need percentages, more precisely, of the income derived from the dividend tax at rates much higher than the income tax. Because the income from injuries in all countries is taxed much more than the passive incomes of active income. Why, then, as they say, put it in stock if you put it in the bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u117	Yes, thank you for the discussion. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the performance of economic obligations. Please vote. [[17:46:17]] For 255 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on notarial action and provision of notarial services is a proposal to consider a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 10433]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:46:53]] For 201 Please 201 is the result. Reported by Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Leonidovich Tihypko, Minister of Social Affairs. Prepare Zabarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u118	Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national MPs, seems to me a very important and necessary law today we have the opportunity to consider in our first reading. What does it mean? In Ukraine, we analyzed extremely many of the documents that require notarial identification today, 198 of them. The bill provides for 48 documents to be reduced by changes to laws by 48 reductions in these notarized documents. So now this is going to be given by the organization and sometimes by other institutions, but it doesn't need a notary certificate, it's the first position. And the second position, we're looking at today, and the cost of notary services, we're seeing a very big difference in the regional cut. The bill stipulates that these services should be regulated and sets limits. It seems to me that our people will win very seriously. Request: Support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u119	Thank you. Yes, the head of the Legal Policy Committee, Vladislav Zabarsky, please. Yes, please sign up for this. Silent Paul, group “Reforms for the Future”, then – Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u120	Is there Paul Mikhailovich? Is there a silencer? Well, what are you raising your hand? What are you, a silencer or something? Please, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u121	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland. Dear National Deputies! Taking advantage of the fact that we have an entire minister, I would like him to comfort us not by what we are going to be. What the hell is going What changes are being proposed for notary actions or notary services, and what is happening today in the banking system of Ukraine; what is happening today in the field of your ministry; where no funds are being paid and how many people are now going to be forced to go on vacation or write these vacations. You know, thank God, it's happened to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. He was in charge of the Kharkiv region. But it's not just the Kharkiv region. This is the case in both the Odessa and Poltava, and in other areas. That's why I'm Sergey Leonidovich. I'd like you to calm us down. Not us. To calm the Ukrainian people. Because everyone sitting here -- this 50 people from power, a dozen from opposition -- they're all normal and well protected. And I would ask you to do that. As far as this bill is concerned, I want to tell you that good wishes are and even there are changes that are being proposed. is offered to refuse to make a notary of performing inscriptions about the borrower's natural persons. There's, really, there's a plus, there's a minus. In general, I think that this bill, if we adopt it in the first reading, there will be no great harm and, in that case, we can both vote and support it. The question is different. The question is, How do we continue to live? Because it's September-month. And I'd like to hear the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u122	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u123	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, may I have a word with the MP of Pinchuk? Pinchuk Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u124	Pinchuk Andrey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, it's not normal enough, it's probably a situation where even a good thing that no one has any questions about, in fact, this bill is designed to make life easier for every average citizen and for us, and for all of us. It is a common practice when each person faces these problems. But, you know, when even MPs go out and comment on the law and first press the "against" button, and then read that this is the law, they're going to go against it, it's not normal. And it's not normal when they go out and it's not the law, but it's the language, it's the language, it's the grandmother Yaga against, because it's bad there, it's bad there. Let's still consolidate efforts, focus on what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, from the Reform Group for the Future, a national MP, Movcan, has not taken advantage of his right. Next time, please. No one's ever been to the "BOUT"- "Paternity" faction? Please, Sergey Sass, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u127	Thank you. Deputy Sass, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, of course, this bill is one of the manifestations of improvement in the lives of citizens today. What do I mean? The project contains a wide range of services related to notary activities, which is the basis for calculating the notary congregation. Such an approach does not leave consumers with the opportunity to do away with the services they have been given. And what's more, he's predicting it? lashing out notaries of extra character services. As a result, a citizen will be forced to pay notaries more than he is now. Therefore, the relevant standards are discriminatory for consumers of notarial action. The project envisions a new way to pay notaries for notary actions, which will lead to a substantial increase in the value of notary services. That's why the BUT-Paternity faction proposes that the bill be sent.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u128	Right. The offer is for back-up. Dear colleagues, the committee invites the Supreme Council to decide on this bill by voting. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill should be returned to work. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on notarial action and the provision of notarial services. [[Registration number 10433]] Please vote. [[17:54:56]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. I am voting for the draft law to be passed on to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. [[17:55:21]] For 230 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for a Single Contribution to a General Compulsory State Social Insurance is being announced for consideration. [[on payment of a single contribution]] Registration number 10671. The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:55:59]] For 201 Decision taken. Rapporteur - Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy Sergey Tihypco, co-rapporteur - Vice-President of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour Jaroslav Suhiy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u129	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill is designed to simplify the administration of the single contribution to the general government social insurance and to reduce the number of payment documents that the payer makes for his payment. Depending on what legal entity is today paying the only social contribution, it is now obliged to draw up from two to seven payment documents to calculate the only contribution. This creates difficulties for employers. In connection with this bill, it is proposed to amend the Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. Thus, it is suggested that all businesses that have employees pay the only contribution to the payment of salaries for one payment document. The distribution of the amount counted between social insurance funds will be effected by the State Treasury in accordance with the percentages determined by the bill. The percentage of the distribution is determined by taking into account the actual receipts of the only social contribution for 2011. The implementation of the project does not require additional costs and will lead to a significant simplification of the work of accounting services in our businesses where employees are hired. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u130	Thank you, too. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi is the deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u131	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The need to make changes is caused by the practical and practical experience of implementing the Law that we have adopted and discussed for a long time, "The collection and accounting of the only contribution to the general public social insurance obligation." The Committee on Social Policy and Labour makes two general comments: first, on the need for sustained enforcement in the development and implementation of similar requirements of current legislation and its approved order of interaction between the central executive authorities in the insurance and social dialogue funds. And the second. We make warnings about not allowing for significant differences between the actual amount of income from the fund and the projected amount of revenue provided for in the fund's budget, because this could cause insured persons to decrease the amount of payment. But most of all, it's different. In the case of the introduction of Ukrainian law, the rules of this law will be simplified by the work of the Treasury, the Pension Fund, and the accounting of enterprises, institutions. There will be a need for one payment order, when now between two and seven. Next. Today, the main challenge for insurance companies is not just the number of payment orders. I want to remind you that the Pension Fund has opened 88 accounts to make a single contribution. And in the complex system of defining the base to pay a single contribution, there's a lot of different rates and unwarranted reporting. And the last. In connection with the above, the committee proposes to adopt the bill on the basis of which the government can continue to have the necessary and necessary work to improve the collection system of the single contribution towards uniting the basis for its implementation. This bill today really needs our industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u132	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". The next one's gonna be Kick-Ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u133	Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u134	Xenia Leapina, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u135	Colleagues! Lapina, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill needs to be viewed from a different perspective. Today, the distribution between parts of a single social contribution depends on risk groups. High-risk people count more for accident insurance, low-risk people count less. If we do the unification, then we have the risks of inability to pay further, the various payments that we have, there, the disability and so on, from the accident. In fact, more than anything else will be affected by a fund that has to provide for all these consequences from accidents. For the vast majority of businesses, there will be little change because they still actually have a minimum wager. Actually, there's not going to be a big simplification here, because the complexity of the calculation is only in large-scale businesses. So I think this is where the risk to the Social Insurance Fund is greater than the benefit of this unification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u136	Gennady Zdirko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u137	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's Reform for the Future will vote in favour of this bill. And the bottom line is that this bill actually proposes to review the approach to determining the proportions of the distribution of the only social contribution to the types of state-owned, state-owned social insurance. But this is remarkable because the Ukrainian Law on the congregation and on the single contribution are being improved. But there is, of course, a negative of this bill, because there is information that the joint representative body of all Ukrainian trade unions and trade unions for collective bargaining and social dialogue at the national level and the joint representative body of the employers at the national level believe that the proposed mechanism for the distribution of the single social contribution is opaque and will make the planning of the income portion of the funds less precise and need to be further developed. It seems to me that the second reading can be done, and we really need to calm our colleagues down. Taking advantage of the possibility, Sergey Leonidovich, I would like to say that the fact that in the city of Oczek, I very much ask you to intervene in the situation is that the people were not paid five years' wages and paid no money to the Pension Fund. People are retired and there are no retirements for five years, and the company is communal. I'm asking you very much, because this is the kind of thing that actually involves more than 100 people working at a utility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u138	Yuri Hanustzak, BUT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u139	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, well, I get it, the problem is to form documents with a single payment. It's a very noble thing, I've got two hands to support it. But let's see how it's implemented. It's implemented by really any enterprise, any computer, where the probability of an accident is zero, and the metallurgical combination, where the risks are high enough, they're counted in the same proportions, that's not possible. Moreover, look, the person of this single contribution is actually the Pension Fund. And the calculations are 32.5 percent. The calculations they come out of the very serious mathematics that comes out, I've already talked about it, which comes out of the understanding that a person in his life should count into this fund enough to get a normal pension at the end. When he retires. If we do such things, those who have greater risks are affected by those who have fewer. So counting, they still have to go to the Pension Fund on individual accounts of every person, every person. And we're making a copy of this whole thing. So these things are very, very risky. I'd like them to look at it from that point of view. Because since 2000, we've had a pension fund account for every person, not just going to meet something that simplifies accounting. Let's address those issues of simplification of accounting in some other way, not by the way that people will then suffer from what we do not make all the informed decisions. Because good intentions, after all, are powerful.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u140	Dear colleagues! Question completed, Peter Cibenko one minute, please. Then Basil Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u141	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! A few words from the history of the question, when a legislative basis was formed for the creation of social insurance funds, and especially when the law on the collection and payment of the only contribution to the general public social insurance was adopted, were certain concerns about what would not happen as well as would be the case as always? Unfortunately, at least the worst expectations did not happen, but this bill, which is being passed, is really focused on a few things. First, something to improve the law. Secondly, it is extremely important to unify it, because the existing system is quite bulky and difficult to use. And thirdly, reduce the paperwork. So the faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u142	Basil Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u143	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Two comments on the statement by the people's deputies, I'd like to make a point. First, there is no personal account for today in the social insurance funds and there is no need to mislead the people's deputies. And the second. We considered the bill at a meeting of the Committee and a joint representative body of employers on Tuesday, and the joint representative body of trade unions supported the bill. None of the social insurance funds have raised particular concerns about the distribution. The Committee therefore proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u144	Dear National Deputies! The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft law amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for a single contribution to the general government social insurance. [[on payment of a single contribution]] [[Registration number 10671]] Please vote. [[18:08:28]] For 259. Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on settlement of matters that make it impossible to perform administrative charges is being announced. [[Registration number 10429]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[18:09:06]] For 199 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Dmitry Voron. The reporter is Victor Schemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u145	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences has been prepared for the purpose of settling issues that arise in the execution of administrative fees in the form of public and correctional work. The bill defines the circumstances that make it impossible to perform social and correctional work: loss of employment, recruitment of military service, detention, imprisonment, and deprivation of liberty, and the unknown finding of a person’s place. The bill also states that if the circumstances are met, the criminal executive inspection applies to the court for the purpose of replacing public or correctional work with a fine. This project provides for a defined procedure for the replacement of redundancies in the form of repairs and public works for persons who avoid such charges by administrative fine in the form of a fine or an arrest. In addition to this draft law, it is proposed to reconcile certain provisions of the articles on public and administrative work with other provisions of the Code on Administrative Offences. In the part of the calculation of the term of administrative arrest – times, part of the purpose of implementing the regulations on the application of administrative fees in the form of public correctional work after they have gained legal power. The adoption of this bill will uphold the principle of irreparability of responsibility for committing offences and will ensure that both offenders and others are properly disciplined. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u146	Yes, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk is the head of the committee's committee on law enforcement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u147	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Settlement of Matters, which makes it impossible to implement administrative charges submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill, as stated in the explanatory note to it, is to address the issue of the execution of administrative charges and to prevent the offender from engaging in administrative mergers. In order to achieve that goal, the bill proposes to amend a series of articles of the Code of the Ukraine on administrative offences, which provide for the possibility of replacement of public or correctional work by other means, such as fines or administrative arrests. The bill also determines the circumstances under which a replacement takes place. These include the loss of employment, the recruitment of military service, the taking of custody, the imprisonment of a person, the unknown location of a person, and others. During the discussion of the bill, the members of the committee, without excluding and agreeing with the need to resolve the issues mentioned, agreed with the critical comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council on the individual provisions of the bill. In particular, it was pointed out that sanctions in the form of fines, public or administrative work and administrative arrests could not be applied to military officials, since article 15 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences stipulates that such persons bear only disciplinary responsibility for the commission of administrative offences and therefore such a situation as an application for term service cannot be considered to be justified. With regard to such a situation as taking a person into custody, it was noted that it was unclear how he would make a fine in the form of a replacement for public or correctional work. After reviewing the bill, the committee considers it necessary to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the draft be returned to the draft with resubmission to the first reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u148	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u149	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! This is also the case when the entire Prime Minister of Ukraine is amending the Code of Administrative Offences. In which case, changes relate to just one chapter, this is about regulation or avoidance of correctional work. Thus, we are amending the Code of Administrative Offences. I don't know what Justice Minister Lavrinovich is doing in the government. I just don't know why he's sitting there. I don't know what the other leaders are for. If I were to sit as prime minister, and I was given 150 amendments to one codex a year, I'd say either these people go somewhere or they're learning something. Because of this, I think that Vladimir Mikhailovich, when you're having another meeting there because you're invited there, you're a wanted guest there, you're always in a place of honor at a time when MPs are generally despised by the government and, in particular, by Mikola Azarov. So you tell me, show me that this code was adopted in the Soviet Union, and a long time ago -- in the 1960s. And making changes and additions there is a disgrace. In general, I agree with what the committee has said entirely professionally. And the destruction of the scientific expertise on the 4th page, although the project has only two pages. 2.5 pages, and on the 4 pages, the destructive assessment, I'm going to go ahead with the destructive evaluation of this bill, and I want the government to make an urgent submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. This is the view of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. At the same time, there is a regulatory proposal to vote, i.e. the first one is the regulation on the adoption of the draft Act, the amendment of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[Registration number 10429]] [[dealing with issues that make it impossible to perform administrative strings]] Please vote. [[18:16:28]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I understand. Who's in favour of going back to that question, please vote. [[18:16:53]] For 259. We're back. I'm betting on a motion for adoption based on draft law, registration number 10429. Please vote. [[18:17:16]] For 259. Decision taken. Honourable National MPs, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on food safety is being reviewed. A motion to consider this issue is put to the vote under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:17:53]] For 219 Decision taken. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u151	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, indeed, the bill is very important and very necessary, but unfortunately there is no consensus in the room so far, and so that the law in the room does not fail and burn definitively, please postpone it for further consultations to ensure a positive vote. Please move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u152	Dear colleagues! Is that what this is about? Vladimir Karpuk, please. Now, if there are any other thoughts, we have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u153	Dear National Deputies, the Health Committee has carefully studied the bill, and virtually the entire redistribution is carried out so that business interests will be controlled by the State Veterinary Epistantial Service. In other countries, this is not in line with the requirements of the 53rd and 62nd WHO sessions, where the role of health care in food quality is, on the contrary, emphasized. How will the veterinary or epistaxis study the effects of food on the health of the population, without knowledge of clinics, epidemiology, or microbiology? And that's why this law can't be adopted. The committee recommends that it be rejected. I think we should look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u154	Since there are such different points of view, it may be better to do so: assign two committees (the Committee on Health and the Committee on Agrarian Policy) to hold a joint meeting and determine on the basis of this decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg of you, fellows of honor! Well, today, according to everything. From all accounts, we cannot make a decision today. So I'm going to put it to a vote, for God's sake, on the transposition of the bill, registration number 10495, please vote on the postponement of the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please. There's an offer, I'll put it to a vote. [[18:20:19]] For 226 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of the principle of the conduct of business by subjects of private law without sealing, registration number 10730, is under consideration. The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:21:02]] For 216 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister Vladimir Pavlenko, co-rapporteur, Deputy Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Xenius Lapin. Please, reporter, let's make this brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u155	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a bill to establish the principle of the conduct of business by subjects of private law without the application of seals. The main purpose of the draft law is to simplify and simplify the process of initiating the business of Ukraine by refusing to be obliged and moving to voluntary use of seals by the owners, and I would like to point out private rights. The bill provides for a change to the obligation to specify only personal signatures in the documents. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u156	Thank you, too. Xenia Leapina, deputy head of the committee. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u157	Dear colleagues, the September 5th committee reviewed the bill. We stress that it is already the fifth attempt of the Cabinet of Ministers to cancel the mandatory use of seals. Each time, the bill narrows the release from mandatory sealing. And in fact, it's not clear where it's going to go from here. The committee considered the matter carefully. And there was a discussion, because we couldn't help but draw attention to the conclusion of the scientific and expert management, which stressed that the bill cancels the mandatory application of seals, but instead offers no other means of confirming the authenticity of documents. The argument that counterfeiting a signature is much more difficult or impossible is clearly not working is that the signature may even be easier than printing. Committee members have pointed out that by preventing one abuse, we may actually be exposed to other abuses. For example, we try to prevent such abuse as the failure to transfer seals from one legal director to another legal director. But we are now exposed by cancelling the sealing obligation, to another option, when the legally new director is confronted with a legally placed rear number by the signature of a perfectly legal previous director. And how to prevent this bill, it is not clear. I mean, understanding that the general thesis that printing is a non-modern way of protecting documents, we share it. But we realize that we need to be very careful in this regard in order to be medically sound: no harm. Because we can have a very large number of new abuses. Nevertheless, the committee decided on a basis of support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u158	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u159	But given the findings of the scientific expert, it is necessary to add it to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in if you need to speak. I'd like us to count the force, we've got 20 more bills for the show. Please sign in. Fedun. Paul Grivkowski. Fedun. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u161	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like you to respond to my reply on the basis that during your stay in the government, you are asking questions, including the repeal of old codes and the preparation, of systematic preparation. I can do this myself, but you're not even giving me a chance to fly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yes, dear friends, I'd like to say, when we're breaking the Rules today, and we're holding a meeting at 18.25, that's how I agree to do it, if we're sitting here from the communists Simonenko as the leader of the faction, the Ephraims from the regions. None. Where are the other leaders? I see there's Sharov. There is no one from the opposition, no one from the other, no one from the opposition. Everyone's doing something important. What do we do with you, Supreme Council? One faction manager is made up of five factions and one group. Vladimir Mikhailovich, that's probably why we need to organize a job like this, and let the voters know now that they're going to the elections, and they're not here. Where are the faction leaders at this time? Where? Where are they? And we want them to vote for them. Now, about this bill. If they were here, they wouldn't be passing the bill, and they would be looking at it and giving it to the government officials, probably, including Mikola Janovich Azarov, who's turning it all over to "popereds," and he's getting to that point, and he's getting to the point that he's got nothing to give, only he's printing it in the government. That's it. There's nothing left. Yes, Your Honor, we need to steal less. That's right. It's a wish for Azarov, but that's not where it goes anymore. Simply canceling the obligation to apply seals is not an option. That's the law we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u162	Dear colleagues, to the faction leaders present, we express our strong gratitude. And those who don't have a warning. I'd like all of us to be in the session room, because we're teaching each other lectures, notes, and we just have to work and we'll be fine. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. But the faction's Jury Hanushka has the right to speak, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u163	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, well, if you continue to make sense, any seals will be voided. I want to point out that we're going to have an election. We're going to have a district commission. If that is the case, there is no need for sealing. This means that after leaving the commission, those who get into the car are greatly simplified by the falsification of the results of the vote. Because you don't need any seals. The signatures are placed right here on the processed form. While printing control is in principle serious enough and it makes counterfeiting a little more complicated. So, you know, well, you don't have to fool people like it's a simplification of work. You can fake everything, but if there are elements of protection. It's harder to fake.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u164	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is not sufficient to accept as a basis and recommends that it be sent for further work. I'm betting on a proposal for a committee that matches the regulatory requirement for the adoption of a bill as a basis. [[Registration number 10730]] Please vote. [[18:29:28]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Let's do it again first, please, I'll put this proposal to the vote. [[18:29:52]] For 223 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine has been announced for consideration, in part, to abolish the requirement of mandatory release of paper extracts, statements from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs. Registration number 11002, I'm putting to the vote the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[18:30:32]] For 210 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Dmitry Voron, co-reporter of Xenius Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u165	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law amends a number of Ukrainian laws, which provide for the submission of statements of extracts from the Single State Register of legal persons and natural persons. In particular, to obtain licenses, to obtain permits, to confirm state registration. The above complicates the initiation of entrepreneurial activities by subjects and leads to an increase in the numbers of state registrars from receipts. Thus, the purpose of the above law is to simplify the initiation by entities of entrepreneurial activity of entities in the management of their activities and to satisfy the needs of public authorities to obtain information from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs through the Internet. In order to achieve this goal, it is proposed to cancel the requirement that subjects be required to manage government authorities’ statements, extracts from the Single State Register of Legal Persons, and natural persons who are entrepreneurs. And to implement the receipt by the public authorities of information from the register through the official website of the main authority in the system of central executive authorities on the implementation of state policy in the field of state registration or alternative access to the Single State Register, in accordance with the country's law on the state registration of legal persons and natural persons. The law is very necessary, it is impeccable, I ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u166	Thank you. Xenya Lapina as deputy head of the committee, please give your statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Finally, a year went by when the government finally pointed out that there was a problem in this area, that there was too much queues and too much time to get anyone's benefits. The bill is almost identical, unfortunately, because it was rejected in this room three months ago -- it was an MP's bill. But it is good that the government has written it kindly enough without spoiling it. So we can certainly support this bill. I just want to point out that there are certain risks that need to be eliminated before the second reading, namely: we need to emphasize and refer to the order in which we receive the relevant organs because we are exempting businesses from the need to take these statements themselves and carry them into our organs. But with regard to organs, we have to establish a link that sets the order for the body to receive the relevant information from the Single State Register. And of course, this bill will have to be supplemented by several articles amending several other laws that still require extracts from the register. But on the basis of the bill you can take, and this will be the right step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Can we vote? Is there no objection? Then I put to the vote the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in order to cancel the requirement for mandatory issuance of paper extracts, statements from the Single State Register of Legal and Natural Entrepreneurs. [[Registration number 11002]] [[18:34:34]] For 230 Decision taken. Xenia Mikhailna, so can she accept it in general? What if no one denies it? Can't you? Well, there's a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u169	..there's still a number of laws to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u170	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to have the committee prepare for consideration in the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[18:35:09]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am announcing for the consideration of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Information Act and the Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information. [[in a new edition]] It is suggested that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:35:42]] For 213 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Radio, Alexander Kurdinovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Oreste Mutz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u171	Honorary Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, the bill proposes to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into line with the new edition of the Public Information Act and the Information Act, namely, to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, and the 53rd laws of Ukraine. In particular, to bring legislation in force to a single terminology, to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations, assuming responsibility for violating the Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information, i.e. a fine of 25 to 80 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes, as well as public work for a period of 20 to 30 hours a year during the year of any of these violations. Also, the deletion of part three of article 277 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, according to which negative information about a person is considered unreliable if the person who distributed it does not lead to the opposite. Also, amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality by initiating a brief introduction into administrative matters of acquittal of the inaction of entities of authority or of the administrators of information regarding the examination of a request or request for information. It also amends article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing Corruption by creating a single national register of persons who have committed corruption. The implementation of the Act will allow the full enjoyment of the constitutional right of citizens to information, to have an effective mechanism to combat corruption, to make the authorities transparent, which will foster citizens' confidence in power, and to express Ukraine's positive international image. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u172	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Orestes Mutz. As for the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u173	Dear colleagues, this bill has been supported by the committee, and I ask your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u174	Who insists on this? Please sign up. Yuri Hanustzak, “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u175	Yuri Hanustak. Here is a specialist in these matters, Andrew Shevchenko. Please tell him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u176	Andrew Shevchenko. Please, Andretz Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u177	I thank Yuri Hanuschuk. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour of the bill. Why? Because we consistently vote for all the bills that make a stronger citizen who give him more knowledge, which give him more rights. I would like to remind you that almost two years ago, we approved with you more than 400 votes of the Public Information Act. I had the privilege of being the author of this law. The point is very simple: everything an official knows, any citizen has the right to know in the same amount of information. Now we have a bill that amends 57 laws and brings them into line with the Public Information Act. I also have to say that we're looking at this bill with a lot of delay, because then, two years ago, we commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to draft this bill in three months, and we know that Derteradio did his work qualitatively with representatives of public organizations, and with experts from the Council of Europe, we worked out a huge package of changes. But somehow the Cabinet of Ministers led by Mikola Azarov took a year to register this law here in the Supreme Council. What Will Today’s Bill Give? He will allow the Act on Access to Public Information to finally work fully. This means that any Ukrainian citizen will be able to get to know the General Plan for the Development of the City or the Village in which he lives. This means that any citizen can get information about why he's listed as a municipal tariff on such a formula, not some other form. This means that when this law is fully operational, we will have less corruption, more truth, and more rights for every Ukrainian citizen. I think this law alone will not correct the power that spits on the laws, and we see it every day, but I think this law is exactly what draws us to Ukraine, where a citizen will feel like a real host. That is why the Fatherland faction and I personally urge everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u178	Dear colleagues, the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Information Act in the new edition and the Ukrainian Public Information Act is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10455]] Please vote. [[18:40:58]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on State regulation and administration in the field of transport and road transport]] [[10458]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[18:41:32]] For 211 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Dmitry Demidovic. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mikhailo Mironenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u179	Good evening, distinguished national MPs! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! You have before you a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on State regulation and administration in the field of transport. The purpose of the bill is to amend the 16 laws of Ukraine in accordance with the administrative reform introduced by the President. The adoption of these changes will ensure the work of the executive authorities by legislativeizing their powers. These are both technical changes in the names of the executive authorities and the strengthening of their control and supervision functions and other issues. Realizing that the bill has been created for a period of time that has changed a number of laws in Ukraine, we ask that the bill be adopted on the basis of its further elaboration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u180	Thank you, too. Mikhailo Ivanovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u181	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications has considered this bill, amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on State regulation and administration in the field of transport and road management, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill proposes to amend 16 existing laws and codes. As a result of the first reading, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the basis of which it was entrusted to the Committee to work on it. [[Registration number 10458]] To the second reading, taking into account the proposals made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis, no objection? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on State regulation and administration in the field of transport and road management, registration number 10458. Please vote. [[18:44:28]] For 253 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the exemption from taxation of transactions in goods, jobs and services as part of the implementation of international technical assistance projects with the aim of improving the conditions for handling obsolete radioactive sources and high-activity wastes in Ukraine. The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[6:45:11]] For-198 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Vladimir Pavlenko, Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade. Vitaly Hometic from the committee will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u183	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The aim of the proposed bill is to resolve the issue of exemption from international technical assistance tax, provided to Ukraine with the aim of improving radiation security by the G-8 taps within the framework of the "Global Partnership against the Distribution of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction" Initiative. By joining the Initiative in 2003, Ukraine agreed that all governments should take the necessary steps to ensure that the support provided was considered free of charge and was exempt from taxes, bribes, and other payments. The bill thus provides for amendments to the Tax Code in part of the exemption for the period of implementation of the initiative from taxation on added value. The adoption of the project will provide technical assistance to improve the handling of radioactive waste sources and highly active wastes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u184	Thank you. Yuri Karakai, please make the decision of the committee. Short.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u185	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee at its meeting yesterday considered the draft bill and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis, and the committee notes that the bill needs some work to be done before the second reading. That's right. The bill does not define who will be involved in the implementation of the projects, so that they will be exempt from taxation. The bill does not define mechanisms for exemption from tax on the added value of transactions from the supply of goods to the customs territory of Ukraine. The bill does not define a comprehensive list of codes and descriptions for OCTs of goods whose import operations will be exempt from payment of the added value tax. In addition, members of the committee were invited directly in the bill to identify an exclusive list of international agreements that would provide the proposed benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u186	Dear colleagues, please sign in. Sign up, I don't mind. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikhailo Dentist. He's refusing. Yuri Carmazin, please. He's refusing? No, Yuri Anatolyovich does not refuse. Don't scare me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u187	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I can give up this, I can't just give up what I have to do to the community and the Ukrainian people to reveal the truth about these laws that are now being proposed and signed and handed down by the government. How can we ask the question so that we do not count the international agreements under which we will render benefits? Well, think about it, we're opening such a huge hole, and that hole is unlimited for each composition. What are we doing? Let us list the international agreements under which the benefits, as described in the Tax Code, will be applied, article 180 of the Tax Code. If anyone has forgotten, please take a closer look. The other one. How, for example, will we react to the list of goods? It is no longer important, that is, the law does not list these contracts, nor does it list goods that will be exempt from payment of duties. There's nothing in the budget, there's nothing in the budget, there's gold money in it, and we're talking about the fact that we're still looking at the issue of the benefits. That's why I think that's the conclusion I made. The scientific and expert office that the bill needs to be redrafted should be mandatory in this case. And if we've had anti-corruption expertise that's been mandatory for a year, but it's not being carried out by the "crovossia" government, no expertise is being carried out, it's a corrupt bill, it's not being accepted today, it needs to be thrown out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u188	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u189	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, well, look, we've talked about these free economic zones more than once, and they're still trying to open those doors again, which, you know, they've brought everything in extra. There's almost chicken, there, and so on. So the document, the law here, is very tricky. Because there's no list here, there's no specification on where these goods are going. Then there is no strict requirement that these goods cannot be overexplored. So that's how we're offered, as they say, a cat in a bag and they say, "You vote, tomorrow we might add, or maybe not add, you just open the door for such operations." Well, I understand, because she probably feels like she's losing the election, and she wants to break up more as soon as possible in the last few months, and then after that. Well, well, at the end of the day, we have to take care of the state, because that's how sad it is. In the last months, well, these laws go lobbying, so much money is being removed from the budget, we think, well, when we come to power, as we're going to cancel this, how we're going to get back. Even with that Chinese loan, you won't get away with it. We have 70 billion deficits when it was approved at the very beginning, actually 30. And now there's this kind of tool that can't even be called law. You vote, we'll add it tomorrow. Well, you can't do that. I see that not only are there no experts in our Cabinet of Ministers, but there are even hidden pests. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u190	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Exemption from Taxation of Transactions in Goods, Jobs and Services in the framework of the implementation of international technical assistance projects with the aim of improving the conditions of treatment of obsolete radioactive sources and highly active wastes in Ukraine. [[Registration number 9528]] Please vote. [[18:53:07]] For 251 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u191	By factions, please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u192	The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 179, BUT "The Fatherland", "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense", zeros, communists 24, the People's Party – 20, reforms for the future – 18, non-factional – 10. Dear colleagues! A draft Act on agrarian receipts, 9610, is proposed for your consideration. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[18:53:49]] For 197 Decision taken. The reporter is Gregory Kaletnik, please. That's the plan. Who's going to report? Basil Black here is a co-reporter, you're a reporter and a co-reporter, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u193	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The need for the adoption of this law is due to the situation that resulted from the lending of agricultural products, especially medium and small ones, which are virtually without access to credit facilities of credit banks, even in the language of the state interest compensation programme. In addition, the new VAT administration rules for agricultural enterprises under the Ukrainian Tax Code also do not contribute to the activation of contracts between suppliers of material and technical resources and agricultural enterprises, because VAT is only due to the first operation and suppliers are forced to or lower prices for agricultural products, or to lose their VAT revenues. In view of these problems, agricultural producers should have alternative lending options, such as future crop credit, which works successfully in individual countries through the application of a financial instrument in the form of contract receipts, which represent an obligation to supply agricultural products, or to pay after the implementation of their products in the future in exchange for obtaining financial or commercial resources now. The bill proposes that voluntary payment of agrarian receipts be linked to their physical return, while the compulsory transfer of the original agrarian receipts to the authorized authorities provides additional protection for the sellers from the possible abuse of creditors of the adoption of the bill will strengthen the government’s development of loans to agricultural producers, especially small and medium-sized ones, who do not have enough liquid assets to pay the mortgage. In addition, the adoption of the law will contribute to the preservation and creation of new jobs, as well as to increase the local and state budgets. From the committee, the proposal to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis. Please support the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u194	Can we vote? Mr. Stanislaw Arzhivetin, please, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u195	Dear National Deputies! I came out because when we're looking at a bill, we're always saying that banks are guilty because they don't have access to credit resources. I'd like to bring you the next stats. Yesterday, there was a round table at the Presidential Institute of Strategic Research, and statistics showed that 40 billion dollars had escaped from Ukraine in 20 years. Every year, up to 10 percent of the GDP from outside our country flees from Ukraine. In the hands of the population today, more than 400 million of the funds that are stored in glass banks are where the resource should have come into the agrarian sector at very low rates. Please tell me, whose fault is it that this credit resource is not in Ukraine's banking system today? I don't think it's the bank's fault. Next. What about today we said that there is no access to credit resources in agriculture? I would like to remind you of the world's experience that usually the credit sector does not lend to the banking system, but they do lend credit to the guaranteeing institutions that are created by the State specifically for the agricultural sector. I'd like to remind you that there are specialized banking institutions that are specially designed for this agrarian sector. So I think when we talk about receipts, we really need to make decisions. But today the banking system has been accused of not lending credit to our country’s economy for three or five percent, as in Europe. I went to these speakers, to my friend Smith, and I asked you, are you going to deposit almost 20 percent of your deposits at inflation rates, like in Europe? And then you get a loan under five. Today, under 15-20 percent of people don't make deposits. But this bill needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u196	Thank you. Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u197	Thank you. Sergei Sass, “BUT – Fatherland”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, well, surely we welcome the desire to provide additional tools for lending agricultural products. But at the same time, I want to draw attention to some of the shortcomings that we think are in this bill. The project should remove novels of the final clauses relating to the changes to the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes and the Enforcement Law. In our view, the imposition of criminal responsibility for failure to execute agrarian receipts, which are civil and legal obligations, will mean the spread of the act criminally. Criminal law on civil and legal relations, which would certainly conflict with the subject of legal regulation of the Civil and Criminal Codes. In turn, the amendments to the Law on Executive Implementation contain a number of rules that recognize the dominant role of performance in the general system of executions. For example, according to the project, the required documents on the enforcement of agrarian receipts will be reviewed on the day of their arrival. Forced execution of agrarian receipts should be provided within 48 hours. To our conviction, the State Executive Service today is not ready to work in such a regime. So when we prepare the bill for second reading, we propose to take these notes into account and we propose to support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u198	Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u199	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm going to support this bill because it makes it easier to obtain, in any way, one way or another, a farm that works in the agrarian sector, the money is so much needed when it's needed for manufacturing purposes. And as for Mr. Arjevetin, what he was saying, I want to remind you that today's banking system is not allowing for a loan, because in order for a farmer to make a mortgage, he needs two thousand mortgages for one thousand conditional units. And accordingly, there is no country in the world, more so in European countries where 200 percent is needed. And in the world, banks value business projects, business risks. In an extreme case, the bank can turn to the company to insure its loan, but it introduces normal available loan prices and thus allows these farmers to develop, supporting its financing. And we have 25-30 percent and plus 200 percent of the bet. It's a business in the agricultural sector that can't be developed. That's why they work and beg. And until we change the banking system, until we make them work within the national economy, nothing will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u200	Yuri Carmazin, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u201	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for one minute to say that the bill is good for Tereshuk and Kaletnik. But we can't now, in the first reading, vote for amendments to the Criminal Code, to the Criminal Procedure Code. Because of what? We didn't miss it either through the legal committees, nothing. Think of what's written here! There are no authors now. I'd like them to think about it. A person who has issued an agrarian declaration that has caused property damage to others is fined to be deprived of their liberty by the age of 3 years, in the first part, in the first part, in the second part, in the last five years. What are you, reverend? To the agrarian receipts, before. You're taking a completely civilized way of adding things like this right now. How a good thing can be taken and disgraced is a good idea. Therefore, removing the changes to the Criminal Code is the first reading when the idea is discussed. That's when the decision is made, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. So let's vote without it. I'm happy to support this bill, but no change to Criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the offer may have the right to life. Just a minute. I'm going to put the committee's first motion to vote, if it's not supported, then we're going to put it to a vote with an exception. [[One minute]] And even if this is not supported, when preparing for the second reading, the committee should bring it into line with the requirements of the Rules. I don't see a problem. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Agrarian Payments Act. [[Registration number 9610]] No, no, I can't bet. Please vote. Yuri Anatolyovich, please. [[19:04:24]] For 216 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote, my esteemed colleagues, to accept as a basis by removing those positions that George Carmazin spoke of, registration number 9610. Please vote. Yuri Anatolyevich, vote, please. [[19:04:52]] For 243 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the Trust Fund for Preservation of Preservation Obligations for Cereals]] Committee proposal: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[19:05:27]] For-198 Decision taken. Vasil Vasilovich Cherniy is a reporter and co-reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u203	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on June 19th, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the guarantee of the implementation of obligations under the composite documents for grain submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Tereshuk Sergei Mikolajovich, and notes the following. [[Registration number 9611]] The purpose and purpose of the bill is to lay down rules for the establishment of an organization and the activities of a guarantee fund for the implementation of obligations under the regulations on grain. The aim of creating such a fund is to make the use of stock documents for grain attractive to creditors by protecting the interests of the owners of such x documents in the event of the failure of the grain warehouse to return the grain to storage. The legislative introduction of the proposed conditions in the bill will contribute to the effective interaction of banking, insurance, manufacturing and trading systems in the Ukrainian grain market, access to credit resources, ensuring the quality of production and the reliability of relationships, access to external markets, development of insurance services and credit mechanisms. In view of the above, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the guarantee fund for implementing obligations under the composite documents on the basis of grain. [[Registration number 9611]] I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u204	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, can we make a decision? Well, please sign in if you insist. Mikhailo Dentist. I won't. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Do you refuse?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u205	I also propose to support this bill because it's a very important task to create exactly the financial markets in the agricultural sector, and this tool allows it to do so. That's why we need backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u206	Thank you. Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u207	Thank you. Deputy Sas, BUT, Fatherland. Well, there's a question about the bill, because the analysis shows that insurance is cheaper than the operation of a guarantee fund under these conditions. Next, the project does not provide a clear, transparent order of compensation for the owner of the stock certificate of the grain transferred to storage. Thus, the Governing Council has the right to determine the documents to be added to the claim for compensation. In addition to certain grounds for refusing to satisfy claims of grain compensation, there is also a refusal in other cases provided for by legislation. All of this provides the basis for obstacles to the management of the property and to the corruption of the fund’s officials. So in these circumstances, we will not support this bill, it needs substantial work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u208	Dear colleagues, the motion for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the guarantee fund for the implementation of obligations under the grain documents, registration number 9611. [[19:09:40]] For 235 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the conclusion and implementation of distribution agreements is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 11119]] I'm voting on the committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. 11119. [[19:10:16]] For 210 Decision taken. The reporter is the national deputy of Harlim Valérie. The narrator is Alexy Plotnikov. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! The inter-ministerial commission for the conclusion of production distribution agreements is negotiating three agreements for the distribution of hydrocarbons in non-traditional gas in the areas of Uzewska, Oleska and Skifska. The specific features of these projects are that all future agreements will become multilateral with the participation of two or more investors. And the existing legislation on contracts and distribution of products is written under bilateral agreements. So the key task of the project is to create conditions for the implementation of multilateral product distribution agreements. First, it clearly defines the status of the operator, the main investor, who is responsible for organizing the work on gas exploration and production, represents the interests of all investors in relations with the State, is responsible for implementing the programme, work and budget, and for enforcing environmental legislation. Based on the fact that the operators of all three contracts are non-resident investors, which is ExsonMobile, Chevron, Shell. [[United States]] [[United Kingdom]] The bill clearly sets out the status of their permanent representations in Ukraine, which will enable them to carry out their activities under the hydrocarbon distribution agreements. And to pay taxes to the budget properly, to pass on to the State a corresponding portion of the profit. In addition, the proposed changes will help to address issues such as the identification of the circle of persons who have the right to use the geological information obtained from the project, the mechanism for the return of the part of the area of the nadr that is declared unpredictable during the work, and the indexation of costs to be reimbursed under the long-term distribution agreements. The adoption of the bill will allow the creation of effective conditions for the implementation of mining projects under the terms of the distribution agreements, strengthen State control in the implementation of multilateral distribution agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u210	Yes, Alexy Plotnikov, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u211	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 4 September 2012 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the conclusion and implementation of the production distribution agreements submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Harlim, respectively registration number 11119 from 30 August 2012. The bill aims to improve the effectiveness of private investment in Ukraine's mining sector by improving legislation on product distribution agreements and related areas to ensure a more favourable investment climate in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion of September 5, 2012, made several comments and suggestions to the bill and considered it appropriate to return it to work. At the same time, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the drafting and implementation of the distribution agreements submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy, Harlim, to be adopted in the first reading and on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u212	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to speak, please sign up. Sign up. Igor Plahoi, please. None. Vladimir Karpuk. Is there a bad guy? I won't. Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u213	Please hand Yuri Carmazin over.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u214	Yuri Carmazin, please. Then there's Gannushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u215	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'll have a joint opinion with Vladimir Karpuk on this law. The point is that the ideas that are good in it are just ideas. Ideas cannot be accepted in the first reading, for there are articles that are harmful to the State’s ability and security. For example, article 32, which suggests that I quote: "At the request of a foreign investor, the State has the right to waive immunity in the distribution agreement. Such a refusal is extended to all court decisions, international commercial arbitration in the decisions of the pre-trial court and arbitral tribunals." This article, for which Stalin would have been shot before, would have just been shot. Good and right, yes. And I want you to pay attention. It contradicts the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the case of the 2001 distribution agreements, in which the provision on the compulsory refusal of State immunity, the immunity to pre-supply and the enforcement of a decision in the distribution agreement is declared unconstitutional. That's why you can't do things like that. Another very important gap in this law that will not allow me to vote for it under any circumstances, because it has to be thoroughly worked out is that the Earth Code provides for permission to use the owner or to use agricultural land without taking into account their purpose. Imagine, our mother-earth is given to one -- to grow crops, and without consideration, it will be treated. As a result, I believe that there is a violation of articles 91, 96, 143 of the Earth Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u216	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u217	And I think that the proposal that the science and expertise department made is to go back to work is the softest offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u218	Thank you. Thanks again. Yuri Hanustak, please. It's the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u219	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that these are the requirements that the foreign investor is now putting in order to enter Ukraine, but let's get out of the fact that we are always guilty of defending the interests of the state in the negotiations, first of all, what interests? Why, for example, is there a requirement to register the investor’s representation in Ukraine? I don't see the logic in these things. Then, when it comes to concluding multilateral treaties, multilateral treaties, it's always much worse than bilateral agreements. Because multilateral agreements in this case have to determine which part, let's say, someone might be the guarantor of the treaty on the side, but then he's not a party as such. So this is the requirement of one party that the guarantor of the treaty be the other side, it's normal, but then it's not an equal, multilateral agreement. In this case, there is such a suspicion that they want to lead us on the wrong path. If they're participating in a tender, there's always one that comes with the corresponding contracts, or the intent to conclude a contract from other subcontractors, and it's more or less normal to consider. Moreover, in the framework of World Bank legislation, this condition is essential for very serious international trades. So the entire structure of the investor, all the liabilities he's going to make in relation to other subcontractors, they have to be in the demands of the state, or the one who orders the corresponding tender, that's not what the law says. No, they go to the concessions that an investor requires.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion is concluded, and I would ask that we listen to Yuri Ivanovich Hanuschak’s proposal that we protect the interests of the state. But not as we were protected and brought before the International Court of Justice concerning the island of Snakes and were solemnly lost. All you can lose. We have to protect each other, not play under soles. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conclusion and implementation of distribution agreements. [[Registration number 119]] [[19:20:19.]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work is put to the vote. [[19:20:44]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the strengthening of liability for counterfeiting of excise stamps is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4736]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[19:21:16]] For 206 Decision taken. Basil Gretzak is the head of the committee's subcommittee on legislative and law enforcement matters. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u221	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I will report this bill to you at the same time as the author, as a representative of the Main Committee. The bill is aimed at increasing responsibility for manufacturing, storing, purchasing, transporting, transferring, importing to Ukraine for the purpose of marketing. And the sale of illicitly manufactured, obtained, or forged stamps of the excise congregation. The bill consists of two chapters, one containing changes to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and the other defines the procedure for taking effect by law and the implementation of its provisions. In doing so, the first chapter of the bill refers to the production, storage, purchase, transportation, transfer, import to Ukraine for sale, as well as to the sale of illegally produced, obtained or forged stamps of the excise congregation. To the subject of a crime in article 199 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, excluding the relevant provisions of article 216 of the Code. The committee considered this issue and believes that the bill will help to improve the mechanism of criminal and legal opposition to the illegal circulation of excise stamps. As a result of the review, the Committee requests the Supreme Council to support this bill on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u222	Dear colleagues, let's vote, yes. Please sign up for the discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, if they insist on performing, there's nothing I can do, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to do a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u223	Marina Perestenko, Communist faction, please. Valerius Behves, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u224	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. You remember that not long ago, a powerful tunnel under all the rules of the construction metro was built in the territory of Slovakia under the ground. Today, law enforcement officials face a dilemma, there is no article on criminal responsibility for smuggling, and it is so qualified by an international smuggling organization. Do you know why it's not? Because six months ago we decriminalized 16 crimes, including smuggling. So the same percentage of pro. the question of counterfeiting the stamps of the excise congregation. Of course, our faction will support this bill. But let us first think about making decisions on this valid issue, including the decriminalization of individual crimes. That's because it's embarrassing in front of the country and in front of colleagues from other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u225	Vladimir Kaplienko, group “Reforms for the Future”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u226	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, well, I'll start by voting for this bill, we won't. The MP's "Reforms for the Future". And I'll tell you why. Because the comparison of Ukraine’s monetary system with the system is not monetary, that is, that regulates the order of payment of the excise congregation and the arrival of the State Budget is inadequate, in our view. Today, two articles 199 and 216 of the Criminal Code govern two different matters. One is committing a crime against the system, that is, falsifying the financial documents of the highest liquidity that money is. And the second is even the storage of the excise stamp with the holographic element of protection. I'll tell you what. Well, maybe let's get to the next thing that if someone even looks at this protective element, they have to die right away. You can't live like this. What's the bill about? This bill about the fight for payment or the monopoly? In our view, this is a struggle for a monopoly, for there is a particular enterprise in Ukraine today. The other one. These are inadequate actions that are aimed at what crimes are, and this is really a crime, when there is a counterfeiting of an excise stamp, which is designed to punish much more than or adequate when the economic and financial system of the state is being undermined. This, in our view, is inadequate. And then there's the next one. If an appropriate proposal is made in the project, it is necessary to confiscate the counterfeit brands of the excise congregation. Is that what you need to understand? Then that's what we have to do. But this is regulated by 81 articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. So it is not clear what this bill is about. And we don't consider it possible to support similar initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u227	Yuri Hanustzak, “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u228	Yuri Hanustzak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, well, I support the previous reporter that the key word in this project is that it turns out you can fake holographic inscriptions. Well, we know who's doing it. So excise stamps, based on the logic of this project, should always have holographic signs. How can you fake them? I'm an optics specialist, so far I haven't learned, I don't know, and I can say it's hard enough. I'd like to draw attention to the standard that came to us from the Soviet Union when there was no one at all -- this is the confiscation of property. Well, in general, you can actually do it in such a way that a person will find one brand that they'll claim is fake and confiscate all property. Confiscating property, in general, is purely a steel rule. In a civilized world, there are civil relations, that is, if a crime is committed, there is punishment in the form of deprivation of liberty and so on, but there is no confiscation. I mean, there's always civil appeals for property after that, and that's how it's assessed. I mean, if you want to go European, let's at least start with this bill, even though I see it as a purely lobbyist slope. And that's why I'm going to avoid voting for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm taking the lead. Well, let's not get into trouble. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. You made the decision of the committee. Dear colleagues, I'm reading what's written here: the adoption as the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine as a basis. [[on strengthening the responsibility for counterfeiting the excise congregation’s stamps]] [[Registration number 4736]] [[19:29:01]] For 246 Decision taken. The proposal was to adopt a bill as a whole. There's a denial. I'm betting on a second motion for the committee to prepare the bill for the second reading on a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[19:29:30.]] For 248 Decision taken. I mean, next Tuesday, plenary, I mean. The draft Law on the Single National Demographic Register is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10492]] The proposal from the author is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[19:30:06]] For 205 Decision taken. The reporter is Vasil Gritzak, co-rapporteur, the first deputy chairman of the committee, Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u230	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Single National Demographic Register. [[Number 10492]] The bill establishes the legal and organizational principles for the creation and functioning of the Single National Demographic Register and the issuance of documents certifying the person, certifying his or her nationality or special status, foresees the introduction of Ukrainian documents to go abroad with an electronic biometric information medium in accordance with the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization. [[ICAO]] The only national demographic register is an electronic information and telecommunications system designed to store, process, use the information specified by this law, and record documents. The aim is to adopt a bill on the introduction of a widely accepted European practice on creating and ensuring the functioning of the population register, as well as the fulfilment by Ukraine of its obligations to the European community on the way to membership in the European Union in the area of the provision of electronic information documents in the State. The adoption of the bill through the creation of the Single National Demographic Register will ensure the mechanism for the implementation of the constitutional rights of natural persons to freedom of movement and residence, the implementation of the first-line action approved by the President of Ukraine in the National Plan of Action for the implementation of the European Union visa liberalisation action plan for Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been considered by the committee and has also been adopted unanimously, and this will now be discussed by a committee representative. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u231	Thank you. Victor Taran is the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. And then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u232	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In all countries, the European Union has a wide range of population lists — demographic registers in all European countries. And their purpose is to make demographic statistics that cover the entire population of the country. The primary purpose of the registers is to protect the personal data of individuals by introducing modern levels of security. Unfortunately, so far there is no single centralized demographic population register in Ukraine. It is clear that the problem of organizing and operating the demographic register is closely linked to the issue of documenting the population of documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine, and the bill therefore provides for the introduction of Ukrainian documents for moving abroad with an electronic biometric information medium in accordance with the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization of the SAO. As early as 2010, the EU has approved an action plan on visa liberalisation by the European Union for Ukraine. I just want to say one thing: if we want it to be really softened, there is visa liberalisation with EU countries, we need to adopt the Biometric Passports Act, like it or not. That was the committee’s opinion. And I want to say last. Of all the bills that work in this, let's say, in the legislative field, this bill looks the most valid. Let's say we were looking at a bill by Deputy Tolstenka. It generally introduces such a standard as the removal of passports. Instead, a Ukrainian citizen’s card is introduced. This would lead to a terrible confusion, and not only would it be a register, but it would simply cost the wind. And so, given the above, the committee, I'm reading the committee's opinion, the committee's decision, and I'm looking at 21.06. In 2012, the bill approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the draft Ukrainian Law on the Single Demographic Register, introduced by the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u233	Finish up, please. Dear colleagues, can we put acceptance to the vote as a basis? Well, they're raising their hand for a minute. Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u234	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you for taking the floor when everyone's in a hurry to get home. However, two words are literally on behalf of the MP group. Let me remind you of Bills 8507, 10492, 10381, 1036, 9592. These are the bills that wanted to settle this issue. Among them, 8507 is exactly the same because we're looking at it right now. I would like to remind you that President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine used the veto and vetoed a bill that is similar to that of 8507. In accordance with which the regional office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees had already stated that the key positions of the bill, and thus, were not in line with European and international standards. Dear friends, I regret today the deputy of Terrena Taran, who has been speaking and defending the creation of this single national demographic register. To deceive you. Because it's a little bit different. Today, the national information system for the registration and documentation of natural persons is in operation. And for today, it's very different, it's about creating a database for exchange, a complete exchange of documents that identify a person in one way or another, starting with passports, and ending with a driver's license, which, after today, makes it time-consuming, in order to get the right to use and monopolies in this area. It's about big money. What are you doing in Parliament? I call on everyone. Representatives of the Communist Party. Well, you haven't supported similar initiatives before, well, why now? Please, please, please don't give your life to similar bills, because they are shameful.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u235	Honorable colleagues, Victor Terrence, reported the committee’s decision, not his personal point of view, but his personal point of view. He reported that the committee had made a decision like this, and he reported to him. Replica to Terrena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u236	Well, that was, you know, a psychological, intense speech by the previous MP. I just want to say what the Head of the Supreme Council said. I've underlined it twice. I made the decision of the committee. Period. The committee that unanimously made this decision includes representatives of the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party, Our Ukraine, the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Lithuanian Block. And so it was the balanced opinion of all the representatives of all the factions of the committee. I cherish the name of the committee, please, I have no right to speak my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u237	Dear colleagues, please remind me of my last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u238	Who's that? I am. Come on, Mikola Tomenko. Please, let's do some. Please. I just don't see it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u239	Dear colleagues, if you're still physically ready, we're still working, because I can see that not everyone is physically ready to continue working. So I want to inform you that Victor Terrence has expressed the point of view of the committee. The faction will not vote for the bill. I just want to say that there's actually one very important story. Now I'm abstracting myself from a commercial component that's been here for the second year in the Supreme Council, that makes passports and how much they cost. In fact, there is a government component that no one does. This needs to be inventoryd and seen what's going on with the institution of citizenship. Today, my friends, I'll let you know, if you drive around the country and look at it, we have several areas in our territory where we have as many citizens as we have dual citizenship, that we will soon find ourselves in a critical situation when there are problems of protecting national interests in the country. We need to find out if we have people who own five passports and citizens of five countries. And when the courts determine, register the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u240	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u241	For one is not registered, because he has five passports, and he is not residing in Ukraine; but another is registered as a deputy, because he has 20 passports and he has not lived in Ukraine, well, they have decided to register him. Because this mess that happens with the civil institution is a threat, I think national security, and the PRSP would have had to look at this issue for a long time. And the technology part I'm saying is that we're not interested in it right now, so we're not going to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u242	Well, Yuri Carmazin, please. Dear colleagues, come on. Please, we're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u243	Yuri Carmazin. Dear People's Deputies,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u244	You work like some people do, let's not talk about working.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you today to think about being a civilized state, first of all, responsible for the commitments we have made to the EU regarding the right of citizens of Ukraine to enter and relocate territories, so that our people are not abused and that there is not what is happening, what we are now saying is that the threat of national security is indeed. But I would like to vote in favour of this bill, but I would like us to add a study on nationality to those requirements that apply to this register. The root nationality of Ukraine is completely wrong. How long can this be done? Since 1917, we have been in such a position to forget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u246	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to accept the bill as a basis. There were differences of opinion on this subject. Please identify yourself with this bill. I'm betting on a motion for adoption based on the draft law on the Single National Demographic Register. [[Registration number 10492]] [[19:41:27]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We are further working and moving on to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the promotion of agricultural cooperation]] The committee proposes to consider the issue of a reduced procedure by putting the motion to the vote. [[19:42:05]] For 211 Decision taken. Reporter, please, Irina Gorin, from the Karakai Committee will be speaking, please, Yuri Karakai.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u247	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the draft bill at its meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it in the first reading, taking into account the comments made. In particular, the bill of exemption from taxes on the income of natural persons from the sale of the agricultural product may allow such benefits not only to agricultural producers but also to any person who will implement the agricultural product. Moreover, Ukraine's legislation does not provide for the use of "co-operative payments" in the bill. Unsettled at the legislative level, such issues would lead to significant losses in the budget and conflict of interest in the application of the law. The committee believes that on second reading these questions can be identified in the right direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u248	Thank you, too. Please sign up with your respectable colleagues. Please log in, yes, if the record is complete then point to the board of Yuri Carmazin passing on to Stanislav Arjevetina. Then, Sergey Sass, one minute will be, you'll be writing against it or it won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u249	Dear National Deputies! Our committee really had a discussion, indeed, the committee supported in the first reading. But I think we've also convinced the author that if we leave this option, we'll create sort of offshore areas in agriculture. I'm going to give you a few examples of what benefits we will deliberately have to offer in order to make things right in agriculture. First of all, all the cooperative payments and payments of portions of the income on pies should be allowed if we under this law applied to the cost in this way to reduce the tax base and the underpayment to the budget. Next. After these cooperative expenses, i.e. the income of individuals, are not taxed either, even though we all consciously understand that essentially these incomes have been earned, it's like a kind of equity payout in other societies. But we are conscious of the fact that in agriculture it is not necessary to tax it. We also allow the proceeds of corporate payments to those members of agricultural cooperatives who also come out to be self-sufficient and not to pay taxes. This was previously permitted only to natural persons now and to legal persons. I think we should also understand that we are deliberately expanding the area of this agriculture -- agriculture -- now there are no such limits. Although the current legislation you know about agriculture, one is so many hectares, so much so forgotten. So there's no boundaries now, and we're creating a huge opportunity to engage in entrepreneurial activities while using large-scale benefits. So my proposition is, if we're really consciously going for such extensive agricultural benefits, we have to set a law term for how much this works. Then, for example, five years from now, we're going to analyze and see if we've created a whole network.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u250	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u251	And we, for example, have five years to analyze how much the budget was under-receiving, whether there are special tax-laundering schemes in this mode, and then continue or stop this experiment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u252	Thank you. Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u253	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the reduced procedure that the majority voted for in the hall is, first, a speech by the national deputy or the motion initiator. We don't have the authors in the room after the third bill, and you're putting the law on the table. Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I'm addressing you. I understand if you're specifying someone there, if that's true. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I ask you to comply with the Rules, the summary procedure is for the initiator to speak from the rostrum. And it's the third law when the initiator's not in the hall, and you're looking at the bill. That's a violation, you can't let that happen. As far as the bill is concerned, we believe that it has nothing to do with cooperation or with the benefits of cooperation. And so our faction will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u254	Thank you. Thank you for your observation. Even if you want to support it, there are no people to support it. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I'm betting on a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code, please vote. [[on the promotion of agricultural cooperation]] [[Registration number 10068]] [[19:47:54]] For 265 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, Proposal: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure, has been announced for consideration. [[on improving the legal regulation of administrative relations between civil protection, fire and technological security authorities and operators]] [[10529-1]] Please vote. And I'd like to invite the reporter to the rostrum. [[19:48:35.]] For-200 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Minister of Emergency Situations, Vasil Kwasuk. Anatoly Seminog will speak from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u255	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! On behalf of the President of Ukraine, Bill 10529 was drafted to eliminate excessive state regulation in the field of fire and technology security. The bill provides, first, for the lifting of the permit granted by the fire - safety authorities to start the work of private - management entities. Secondly, instead of granting permits, the principle of declaration of readiness and compliance with the technical requirements of fire safety legislation is introduced. A positive conclusion is needed to start the operation of high - risk entities. Fire safety authorities will also be deprived of the right to decide for themselves whether to shut down businesses or business entities. Such a decision will be given the right to exercise exclusive authority through an administrative court. In general, this bill will improve conditions for the development and management of businesses in Ukraine. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the bill and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u256	Thank you, too. The committee will be chaired by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u257	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! For your consideration, the draft law drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending some of Ukraine’s laws to improve the legal regulation of administrative relations between civil protection authorities in the area of civil protection of fire and technology security and management. The purpose of adopting the bill, according to law enforcement entities, is to improve the legal regulation of administrative relations between public authorities in the area of civil protection of fire and technology security and the sub? I don't know. I don't know what you're The draft law does not require additional funding, according to the initiators. At the same time, the scientific and expert office has made a number of remarks to the bill, but the committee has decided to support the bill, based on the fact that it is, in our view, a fairly progressive bill today, even one rule that does not allow businesses to be closed today by decision of the supervisory authorities, but only by decision of the court. This bill, in our view, is progressive. At the same time, the comments made by the scientific and expert authorities, according to both the committee members and the drafters of the bill, could be further elaborated on the second reading. So I'm asking you to support the committee's decision and to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u258	Please sign up with your respectable colleagues. Boguslaev, faction of the Party of Regions, please. He's refusing? Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u259	Yuri Hanustzak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, it would be a good project again. But let's look at essentially how we have these controlling organs milking from a poor peasant's money, as they say. They definitely don't say which project is good, what standards should be. Then they actually come in and say, "And you know, you don't have a hanging door on that side." And they say, "The project is wrong there, and I don't know anything, and so on, I don't." So if it's about the fact that when it's announced in general, let's say construction, even construction and work, it immediately indicates a set of restrictions that have to be made by the law enforcement authorities that come in, or those who are making sure that they already know that they've reported, like, that kind of restrictions. Then I could understand. In this case, it is always up to the signature of someone who, after all, accepts or gives up an object in operation to determine whether or not they will be implemented, in fact, those investments that have taken place. So those problems that now exist in construction, for example, when they're being built on the initiative of gas residents, you know, three, four years from now, people can't turn on that gas because that inspector doesn't come or says that, you know, I have this idea that it's wrong. That's not how this project works, because everyone, everyone, definitely wants it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u260	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u261	Thank you. Please give the floor to Behvizu Valerija Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u262	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my great respect for General Kwasuk as a true expert in the field of civil protection. But, Vasil Pavlovich, the problem is that today two systems of integration are being built in the Ministry of Emergency Situations. From the minister to the manager and second, they're inspections that are doing system-wide collection of money for farm subjects. And this is the main one. I understand it's not just your problem, it's the minister's and the minister's office as a whole. And that's what I'm saying so it's in the transcript, because very soon we're going to get back to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u263	Garbage, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u264	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I took the floor, 30 seconds, to thank the Ministry, first, and Minister Balozy, because it's an unprecedented example when it's the Ministry that's reforming and simplifying the surveillance system that makes it easier to breathe into our businesses that are actually working in the real sector. And I'm sure that a lot of entrepreneurs will join me in thanking me, because it's a substantial and very progressive norm that's being introduced and allows a simplified procedure to put new technologies, new jobs, new businesses into practice. Therefore, we thank and hope that such examples will be used consistently by other ministries that will simplify the work for our businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u265	Dear colleagues, vote on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving the legal regulation of administrative relations between civil protection authorities, fire and technology security and operators, registration number 10529-1. [[19:56:54]] For 232 Decision taken. A draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s bankruptcy laws, 10707, is being announced for consideration. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u266	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, a serious bill is being tabled in the Hall and is indeed necessary for the proper functioning of the economy. But to date, unfortunately, there is still no common consensus on the adoption of this law. Therefore, in order not to burn the law, please put to the vote the question of postponement of consideration of the bill for further consultations with a view to obtaining a positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u267	Dear colleagues, this bill has been in the Supreme Council for two months. Sadly, the committee did not consider him. So that's a request. I'm going to put it to the vote on the transfer. The Supreme Council, if it makes a decision, will consider this document for the committee. I'm voting on this proposal. It's about transferring what I'm talking about. What's the offer? Well, I said I put her to the vote. Sergey Volodymyrovich! The transfer of consideration. And the commission of the committee to review this bill immediately. Please vote. [[19:58:34]] For 258. Decision taken. The draft Law on the Forming and Placement of State Procurement for the Training of Experts, Scientific, Scientific and Pedagogical Personnel, Higher Qualifications and Retraining of Personnel is under review. [[10720 - Registration Number]] I would like to vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. [[19:59:10]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Pavlenko. Maxim Lutsky will be speaking from the committee. Stepan Davemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u268	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill provides for the establishment of relationships in relation to the formation and placement of government procurements for the preparation of scientific, scientific, pedagogical and labour personnel, the upgrading of the qualification and retraining of public procurement personnel, and the formation of public procurements according to the needs of the labour market. The draft law provides for the formation of a government order, taking into account the medium-term forecast of the need for professionals in the labour market, which is made up of central executive bodies in the sphere of social policy, statistics and other central executive authorities, local self-government and social partners. In doing so, public procurement is carried out by the contracting authorities on competitive grounds, in addition to ensuring the defence of Ukraine, state security and the protection of the state border, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Security Service and other military formations. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u269	Thank you. Vice-Chairman of the Committee, Stepan Davymuk, please take the position of the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u270	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honorary Collegiate, Bill of Mineconomy Development designed to carry out the relevant mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers under the Ukrainian Supreme Council Decision on Conclusions and Proposals for a Draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. The draft law is designed to create a transparent mechanism and criteria for the formation and placement of a government order for the preparation of professionals for all sectors of the economy according to current and prospective labour market needs. The provisions of the draft Ukrainian Law provide for the formation of a government order, taking into account the medium-term forecast of the need for professionals in the labour market, which is made up of central executive authorities, local self-government authorities and social partners. This is important and relevant, allowing foresight to be maximized and the needs of the market economy taken into account by relevant professionals. In doing so, the public procurement is to be made by the contracting authorities on competitive grounds. The draft law is in agreement with the Nacdere Service, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal The main scientific and scientific authorities have made very serious comments. In particular, according to the Chief Executive, it is reasonable to believe that the bill does not contain a separate subject of legislative regulation sufficient to adopt a separate law on the subject. There are also serious disagreements about the timing of the order and the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u271	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u272	and the preparation of the State Budget Act. But the Committee on Science and Education proposes the adoption of the proposed law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u273	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, if there is anyone who is ready to perform, please sign in. Yes, Basil Hara, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u274	Dear colleagues, the bill is very simple and understandable. There is a proposal to discuss and accept it more briefly and it is very much needed to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u275	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u276	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". As to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the bill does not contain a separate subject of legislative regulation. But given the situation that there is, the imbalance in the preparation of different kinds of specialists, when some of the engineering professions are missing, even the science and teaching professions of others. There are overproductions, such as economic and legal ones, when government policies are not being implemented in the preparation of the labour force itself, the weight of this law is increasing. At least what will be the medium-term perspective of the review and certain figures that Ukrainians need are very important and can be planned for money. So we're going to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, we can immediately delete the change date not until December 1st, because it doesn't correspond to part 2 of article 96, but we're going to put by September 15 at least, if all of this is done, then the change in this term won't affect, let's say the quality of these documents that are being submitted to the central executive authority that executes and provides public policy in this area. That's why we're going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u277	Yuri Hanustak, then Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u278	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! I admit that the problem is that there is a certain imbalance in the needs of different specialties and the way we prepare we have a masonry. But what I'm pointing out is that getting out of the tender procedure, from competitive procedures even in small amounts there and so forth, is the dot going on, why? Because, in fact, we don't have a regulation in the basic law on how to buy services. And if that's what it's like, it's a sign that we've got our footage cleared in the Cabinet of Ministers that can't just take the typical tendering procedures of the same World Bank, include them in the basic law, and a lot of problems afterwards. And by every law they do, and we don't do that by tender, and we don't do that, why? Because we see the powerlessness of those frames that the government has to do anything, or the freeness to do anything. You may not have English translators, so it is presented even in English as a standard procurement documentation. So let's do this in a systematic way. The second option that I understand is that tender procedures are long enough. But at last we have to approach this issue carefully, and thus determine the tender procedures so that they can be done in order to do the least that needs to be arranged, to be brought into this area by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u279	Thank you. Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u280	Thank you, the MP's Group on Reforms for the Future thinks this bill is aimed at eliminating the constitutional right of citizens to free education. Its analysis only confirms that the government is consistently pursuing financial problems on the basis of education, at which costs are consistently reduced. In particular, the Court of Auditors found that up to 49 percent of the students were trained in the past and the past year, instead of the projected 51. With this bill, the government is proposing to eliminate the general expression in specific figures of state guarantees of free student education for every 10,000 people, which will mean the actual elimination of free higher education. Such policies show that the government does not want to understand the importance of education in the modern post-information world, living with the illusions of an industrial society in the middle of the last century and has no intention of investing in the development of education and science. In Europe, where Ukraine seems to be leading this government, education is generally free of charge at state and municipal universities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u281	Question completed. The committee offers in its first reading, the Chief Scientific Expert in its work. I put to the vote the first reading on the basis of the draft Law on the Design and Placement of State Orders for the preparation of scientific, scientific, pedagogical and labour personnel, the promotion of qualifications and the retraining of personnel. [[Registration number 10720]] Please vote. [[20:09:38]] For 244 Decision taken. Consider: The New Foods Act, registration number 11008. There's an offer, there's an offer: look at the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] From what? [[B in m in s a l in]] [[20:10:05]] For 186 Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u282	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I point out that this bill is not. The first reading was not considered in the profile committee, so we cannot consider it today. It's not a simple bill, it's a law. the amendment of some laws, and this is a basic bill. And also, Adam Ivanovich, I point out to you that the majority who voted “before the conclusion of the agenda” are present in 57 people in the room, in violation of the requirements of article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine on personal voting. I'm asking you, as chairman, to stop violating the Constitution in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u283	Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u284	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you with conviction, see who is working in the opposition's hall today, and let the team pay no wages for today. After all, two people sit in the hall and raise the rest of the room. At the same time, the first stand in line in the pay register. As far as this bill is concerned. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the Committee to postpone consideration of the bill. Our faction supports the Committee's decision. And we'd like to ask that we don't waste time, so let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u285	Honorary colleagues, two factions: the BUT faction and the faction of the Party of Regions have been asked to put the matter to a vote. Please vote. [[20:12:17]] For 253 Thank you. The factions. Region Party - 182, BUT - 1, Our Ukraine - did not vote, 0, Communists - 19, People's Party - 20, reforms - 18, non-fractional - 13. We are discussing the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation for the conduct of checks in relation to the termination of the application principle of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons who do not have employed employees. [[Registration number 11005]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[20:13:09]] For 206 Supported. First Deputy Finance Minister Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski will report. Get ready, Homutinik. Or is it from the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u286	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed for a draft law that is designed in accordance with the tasks set out in the 2012 National Action Plan on the implementation of the economic reform programme approved by the Presidential Decree. The bill provides for the improvement of tax laws in the part of checks in connection with the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of individuals who do not have employees. In particular, verification periods are reduced, and these checks should not exceed 3 working days; they should simplify the procedure for conducting such checks in the last two calendar years simultaneously. Tax payers are declared to have no income from economic activity, tax payers are not registered as VAT payers, tax authorities have no tax information regarding the use by payers of employed persons and open accounts in institutions and other financial institutions. The adoption of the bill will simplify the procedure for voluntary cessation of the business activity of an entrepreneur who did not use the work of hired persons. The bill is short. A request to accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u287	Thank you. Please sit down. Who's from the committee? Karakai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u288	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, sadly, was unable to consider the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u289	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing the session room. Are we going to consider it without a decision from the profile committee? I'll put it to a vote. Who's in favour of considering the committee without consideration, please identify yourself. [[20:15:50.]] For 236 We've got it. Please sign up if you want to. Please, Smitch. Behind him, Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u290	Mr. Sase, give me a chance to say. I'm very grateful for the opportunity to say that I want to go to all entrepreneurs in Ukraine, because you know that one question when an entrepreneur opens his business and then he can't do his obligations for any reason or other? tying up to the state in terms of economic activity and reporting, and so on, and he needs to shut down this business. And unfortunately, to this day, the procedure was certain, it was so engaged and complex. And the government will demonstrate one more time today, and we will support, the Party of Regions and most of them represented in the Supreme Council, working at this time today so that these entrepreneurs can sleep peacefully tomorrow and know that they have a simplified procedure -- once, and an accelerated procedure -- two. And that they will not have any questions that make their lives more difficult. So I would ask everyone to support today's vote and print who supports entrepreneurs today and who doesn't. Please put to the vote and adopt the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u291	Asshole, he's got Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u292	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this bill. But I want to say, clearly, that entrepreneurs can't sleep, because in fact, the demeanor procedure that entrepreneurs are going through today, by shutting down their business in the Tax Inspectorate, it's going to continue because today we're considering this bill, unfortunately, in the first reading. But of course it's a step towards entrepreneurs, and our MP group will certainly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u293	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u294	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that we now have 54 people in attendance at 20 hours 18 minutes from the majority, and, thank God, in the presence of the leader of the faction of the Party of Regions, who has already appeared, something terrible is going on, something terrible is going on. Horrible because of that. No, I don't need a Valerian, thank you. This is for you, take care, you'll need it when the people throw you out and start with the "blood" of the head, from Azarov! He'll start with him. As a result, take care of the Valerian for yourself. Adam Ivanovich, well, we don't have the Rules, the Constitution doesn't apply to personal voting, we don't react to notice. We don't even make decisions with the committee anymore, the committee doesn't. We "benefyed" the people by creating the Tax Code, where we predicted dragonry means to destroy entrepreneurs. They're all closed today, they're leaving today, there's a tax check coming in and they're telling them that the minimum we can fine you is 50,000 dollars, and otherwise there's no exit checks, you know. And we want to "bless" them further. We say to them, "Dear ones, there will be a pre-planned check on you, definitely!".. Come on! Stop running tests already! Take it and 10 times as much as you want to cut the tax administration, stop now, you see everything's already going "in tartars" and you'll fly there yourself! No, you're still going on with cynicism to abuse these entrepreneurs, and you're also saying that it's for the implementation of the Rich Society, competitive economy, an effective state. And we all remember what the constitutional guarantor, Mr. Janukovic, said? Tax breaks. These are your tax breaks. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u295	Yes, Grivkowski. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation, for the conduct of checks in relation to the termination of the declared principle of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons who do not have employed employees. [[Registration number 11005]] Please vote. [[20:21:01]] For 257 Thank you. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u296	Well, isn't it funny when you announce these results?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u297	I am glad that there is a result. Dear colleagues, there was an offer, but there is a objection, unfortunately. Unfortunately, there is a denial. Dear colleagues, we were looking at some drafts in the morning, there were no tables, and now there were bills for these tables. That's why we're now looking at Bill 10043 – amending some Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of state and municipal property. Please, head of the Kaletnik Committee. Okay. Wait. Grigory Mikolayovich, wait. Give the word to Sasu because he can't take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u298	Adam Ivanovich, well, stop it or else. Deputy Sas, "BUT is the Fatherland." Well, what's this shit? Today, we have called off our decision to adopt this bill early, and you are in violation of part five of article 47. The point is, I quote, "The Supreme Council's decisions on draft laws, regulations, other acts are only taken from issues that are included in the agenda before the opening of the plenary session." That's not an issue involved. The decision was repealed with regard to the adoption bill as a whole and should therefore be included in the order of the next day, not today. What are you doing? Stop this mess. Is your country shaking your hands? And as a communist, you're helping the criminal authorities steal the land from people. Stop all this stuff. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u299	Thank you. Thank you. Well, you know, unlike you, the Communists have never voted for anything like that. That's the first one. That's one, that's one. The other one. Taking into account Sass' fair remark, I'm putting to the vote who's in favour of putting the bill in order of the day and considering bill number 10043, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Before the opening of the plenary session, before the beginning of the plenary session. [[20:23:39]] For 225 You may not open a plenary session until the beginning of the plenary session. Don't wave your hands. The agenda for the plenary session cannot be started as there is no session. What are you saying? Yeah, what do you need to be, huh? Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a proposal on who's in favour of going back to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u300	You can't do that. It's not a simple law. [[20:24:36]] For 234 Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u301	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u302	You're just back. Who's in charge of including and considering? Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u303	You can't! Don't vote! [[20:25:06]] For 234 It's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u304	Boycott! Boycott! There are no deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u305	Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u306	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of state and municipal property. It is prepared by the committee for second reading according to the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft of the bill was considered by the Committee of Amendments and Proposals, as expressed by the People’s Deputies on June 21, 2012. They're taken into account by the committee. Please note a few key points. First. This bill has no bearing on the market of the earth as it is here, provoked, claimed. The other one. In 2001 the earth code was adopted and on October 25, 2001, under the headship of Ivy John Stepanovich as Head of the Supreme Council at that time, the Land Code required the establishment of a State Land Bank. The absence of the State Bank over the course of these 10 years has distorted the agricultural lending system. And today it is only for those who lobby for the commercial banks that are eating at the peasant’s work. Commercial banks are lending under 25 to 26 percent today, and holy bread is cheap. This law introduces the State Land Bank, which is to provide exclusively rural, farm, agricultural, and agricultural enterprises with a loan of no more than 5 per cent of the National Bank’s interest. And the third. All amendments and remarks made by national deputies are included in the work. The Committee notes that the adoption of the bill will allow for the clear identification of land and land in state and municipal property, which will facilitate effective territorial management, the regulation of the tax base on land payments, the avoidance of conflict situations and judicial proceedings. It will also distinguish all countries in Ukraine without additional spending on government and local budgets. The bill cancels the need to develop land-use projects on the delimitation of state and municipal property, and projects on land-based land-building will lead to a significant economy of state and local budgets. Taking into account the committee's presentation at its meeting on September 6, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted by a second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u307	Thank you. Gregory Mikolaiovich, wait on the right hand side is that there's nothing in that table that you say that all the amendments are included. So let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u308	Adam Ivanovich, one word. The point is that the amendments are taken into account by those who received comments at the time of the adoption of the June 21 Bill and who served as a basis for repealing it in second reading and in general as a law. Therefore, these amendments were considered by the Committee and agreed with those comments by the National Deputies and the orders of the Supreme Council, and therefore, the amendments that we have already voted on on June 21 have no reason to stop because it was only these two key amendments to Article 15 and Article 122.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u309	That's good.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u310	Amendments to Article 15 are an amendment to the Drought and Article 122 is an amendment to the Bort and the Siddnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u311	Dear colleagues, calm down. Since we are considering the law in the second reading, we canceled it in the second reading. So we're going after the amendments, whether they're taken into account or not, because this is the second reading, not just if it was the third reading and only some amendments, and this is the second reading. Yes, Rubber One. Declined. Don't insist. Chaplain. Layer 3 Four. Five o'clock, are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u312	Well, I'm actually saying that what's being done right now is totally lawlessness. And I've pointed out that in this Supreme Council, if there's some kind of malice and some kind of criminality, it's done that way at night, when we don't have any, or the press, when they're turning off the broadcast, then you're doing, really, what's called immensity. Because it is the law that you want to satisfy the appetites of a particular family. You're committing a crime against the entire Ukrainian people, and you're not going to get away with it. You're the same communists who vote to put it in the agenda, that's, that's, that's the biggest crime you can commit against agriculture, that's taking the land away from it. And by this law, you take this land. You're completely reducing local self-government. And you can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u313	Be objective. The Communists did not vote for inclusion in the agenda. You don't have to put a shadow on your knitting. 6th Carmazine, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u314	No, well, Adam Ivanovich, it's very strange, very strange. It's very strange that we're not talking about essentially amendments, that's the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u315	Adam Ivanovich, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u316	Grigory Mikolayovich, please let me conduct the meeting. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u317	Well, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u318	I repeat, if you lead, then you will answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u319	No, I can give you the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u320	Well, shut up. There will be a call for you, then you will. Please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u321	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask that you pay attention to and read 10 comments from the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the General Legal Department of Michael Tepluk, whose general conclusion is that since the date of the entry into force of this law, the land of state and municipal property of the apiori, by virtue of the law, will be considered to be separate. Even so, the income of local budgets from or rights to land sales will cease. These are articles 29 and 71 of the Budget Code. It's just one tiny little thing from all over the bouquet that we've been made. As a result, I will not give up my amendments, and I will insist that article 6 (d) of the Earth Code be rewritten. This is: agreeing on issues related to the cessation of the right of permanent use of any substantial change in the use of the ransom and any other change in the purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u322	Amendment 6 Karmazin is voting. I'd like to make a statement. [[20:33:09]] For -6 Not supported. 8th. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u323	Yuri Carmazin. I'm colleagues of Chetchev with great respect for his hand, I say. As long as Karmazin is sitting here while his amendments are being made while other deputies are sitting, the opposition is not dead. Those who have circumcised themselves have died, and this opposition has not died, reverend Mikhail Vasilovich. That's it. Article 9 of the Earth Code suggests that the following should be made: “Cyivian and Sevastopol city councils in the field of land relations. The knowledge of the Kyiv and Sevastopol city councils is part of their territory: the administration of the land of the city's territorial communities, the transfer of land for public use, the transfer of land or municipal property to the property of citizens and legal persons according to this code, the granting of land for use from the land of municipal property and the land of municipal communities according to the code, the removal of land from the land of municipal property, the redemption of land for the needs of the city, the cessation of the right to use land.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u324	8 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[20:34:42]] For the four of us. Not supported. 11th Amendment, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u325	I'm asking you to pay attention. Sevastopol in itself is not a city, Sevastopol is 33 inhabited sites, and there are seven other councils, including the Inckerman City Council, including the Kachin Village Council, including Ternivska, including Orlinska. And so giving authority solely to the Sevastopol City Council, making decisions about the whole territory called the Great Sevastopol, means giving birth to a huge one between them. So let's take this question seriously. Let Sevastopol’s city council make that decision within the framework of Sevastopol’s own construction. Other councils have to take on land that affects them personally, because it's a case where we don't have a basic law on Sevastopol, and we're already asking that question. Let's separate Sevastopol from that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u326	The 11th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[20:36:14]] For the four of us. Not supported. Panocchik, 13th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u327	Gentlemen, this is the same story. In Kiev, too, we do not have the issue of the administration of Kiev. I've passed three bills, one of them relates to it. There's also a few silages that are still in the city of Kiev. So we also need to separate the city of Kiev and better vote as I suggest, that is, within the territory of the Kyiv Council. In the same way, we reject any misrepresentation because the territory of the Kyiv Council is the territory of all the great Kiev. And there will be no overlaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u328	The 13th amendment is on the vote, please be determined. [[20:37:27]] For two. Not supported. 14th, Ganushtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u329	With this amendment, I explain how to regulate the relationship between the Sevastopol City Council and other councils within the Great Sevastopol. Notice that there is no overlap in this case. The Sevastopol City Council deals with the issues within the Sevastopol Dam, and everyone else within the jurisdiction of those councils within the Great Sevastopol. Consider what else there are district councils that have no authority on the issue of the city of Sevastopol at all. And this question, after all, will have to be settled. I suggested how to settle it correctly so that there would not be a disturbance that would definitely be in these areas, because the land tax went to these silages in the town of Sevastopol, and now he won't go. Actually, this law, you think about what you're doing, a land tax that worked under jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u330	The 14th amendment is a vote, please be determined. [[20:38:57]] For 1 Not supported. 15th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u331	Yuri Carmazin. Sass and I have just filed a statement asking her to be included in the minutes of the meeting, a grave violation of the Rules during the consideration of this matter. Now for my specific amendment to the 15th. My proposal is that the standard proposed by the author of the bill is greatly limited by the authorization of rural, rural, urban councils in the field of land relations, which violates their legal rights. And I propose that we put the article entitled "Responsibility of rural, rural, urban councils" as follows: "To authorize the use of land of territorial communities, transfer of land of municipal property to property or temporary use, granting land to the use of their land of municipal property according to the code, removal of land, redemption of land, organization of land, coordination of the activities of local land authorities, control of the use and protection of municipal property, restriction, temporary ban, preparation of conclusions on land.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u332	15 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[20:40:28]] For two. Not supported. Panocchik, 18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u333	Here, the main role in this amendment relates to Sevastopol itself, that is, the Sevastopol City Council is responsible for itself, and other councils are responsible for themselves, but once again, I stress that coming to local budgets, especially rural ones, which are completely subsidized and completely weak and fragile, they will decrease even more. So we're paying for the land. In fact, we're removing a whole layer of payers who have been paying for the budgets of rural councils until recently. And now jurisdiction will only apply to that part that is in the village itself. But besides, you know, the village council, it's very often 3, 4 villages, how will that be handled? Well, no one thinks, but everyone wants to give up the land as quickly as they can. Land market was not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u334	Amendment 18 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[8:41:59]] For two. Not supported. 20th, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u335	I'm saying one thing and I'm putting it in your head that this system is not going to work. You're masquerading Ukraine. So Ukraine, which looks like a raisin bride, here's a raisin, and everything else is a mass that is incomprehensible about who is regulated and who belongs. Who will belong to this land outside? So the only way to do that is to make local self-government universal is to do it within the jurisdiction of the council. This concludes the jurisdiction of one village council, and the jurisdiction of another village council begins. You want jurisdiction to end at the edge of the barrier. You recently passed this law under Kharkiv. Where will that jurisdiction be? How will it go on? That the raisin was growing and had gone softly, and softly, it had confirmed that the land was no longer there. They're still sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u336	20 amendments shall be made to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[20:43:29]] For two. Not supported. 21st, Carmazine, accounted for. Carmagine is 35th rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u337	Thank you, Yuri Carmazin, the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Paragraph 2 of Part 6 suggests that the change in the target destination of especially valuable lands is allowed only for the construction of national security objects. I submit this proposal in view of the fact that the editorial proposed by the authors indirectly creates a very wide range of grounds for changing the target destination of the land, namely, for the construction of public roads, electricity and communications lines, pipelines, drying and irrigation channels, geodetic sites, housing, oil and gas wells, and manufacturing facilities related to their exploitation. What practical approach will lead to numerous abuses in the Poltava region now each gas well provides 360,000 dollars on the day of its arrival, where are they? They're gone. Who owns it? We don't know if that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u338	20 amendments, 35, sorry, vote. [[20:45:17]] For the five of us. Not supported. Karpuk, what's your correction? 33, the amendment taken into account by Bebezenka, is valid for confirmation. 33 amendment please vote yes. [[20:45:43]] For-188. No correction supported. I guess so. The 36th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u339	Jury Carmazin Amendment 36 refers to what I propose to exclude part seven, namely: "the change in the purpose of the land assignment of the forest-farming purpose of the conservation, health-care, recreational assignment of the state-owned property is carried out in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I believe that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has broad rights in the area of change in the target assignment of land areas for the conservation, health and recreational purposes of the country's state ownership is not justified. In practice, such a mechanism can lead to numerous abuses in this area. Moreover, the change in the destination of such lands is not acceptable. After all, the recreational fund should remain intact. Only the Lord can change him, for the Lord has given him to us. So let's not blaspheme and go ahead, consider my offer, otherwise this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u340	Yeah, 36 goes to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u341	Please be supportive. [[20:47:36]] For -6
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u342	Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, this is Yuri Carmazin's 45th Amendment, please. No, the 44th Yuri Hanushtak. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u344	40th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u345	40, it's edited. So, Yuri Ivanovich, please, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u346	I'm not going to repeat this argument. I'm just going to point out that the very fresh conclusion of the Supreme Council's apparatus and the judiciary, which is horrifying to see what you're doing here, is the main one, and says that the individual provisions of the bill do not comply with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, which are based on the fact that in 1996 a number of legislative acts are not brought into line with the Constitution of Ukraine that regulate the organization of public authorities within the administrative and territorial units. However, the stated provisions laid down in the bill as a standard of continuous action, such as the existing territory currently existing, which does not form part of any area, the absence of individual district-owned administrations, and the existence of territorial communities in stock.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u347	Dear colleagues! Well, please, let's finish. I'm begging you! To the end, let's go through, let's go on with this. Well, please. Puts the vote to the 44th amendment. [[20:49:34]] For two. Correction not supported. Amendment 45. Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u348	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We have now come to the attention of Chairman Adam Ivanovich of the gross brutal violation of the Rules and Constitution that is now taking place in the Hall. In particular, this law was repealed this morning, and today we accept it by repositioning it, including it in the evening session. In 20 hours, 20 minutes. My amendment to the 45th refers to the fact that I propose paragraph 4 of Part 2 of Article 79. leave it as it is. This is by defining the boundaries of the land of state or municipal property, which is carried out in the process of demarcating state and municipal property." [[end of quote]] This proposal is made in view of the fact that a valid editorial is more appropriate when dealing with this issue, although as the formation of land areas by defining the boundaries of state or municipal property for land-use projects, the system for sorting the territories of the population leaves a field for manipulation and abuse, which is unacceptable as corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u349	Honorable colleagues, Yuri Anatolyevich, was responsible for the 45th amendment. I'm putting her to a vote. [[20:51:08]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. Amendment 49, Yuri Hanustak. You will. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u350	It's the only way to explain to people, people, how they're being robbed. So I continue to quote what the Supreme Council's apparatus, the Chief Legal Authority, just doesn't write it. The President's request for a veto will continue to go exactly to the top because there are no rules in line with the Constitution. And they say: “The bill, part of a fourth of the new edition: it is proposed that the central authority of the executive authority on land issues and its territorial authorities be empowered to manage the agricultural land of state ownership by removing the designated powers of local government administrations. In this regard, it should be noted that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, this should be the prerogative of local government administrations. That's why we're in violation of the Constitution. You are in violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, vote on the 49th amendment. [[20:52:40]] For two. Correction not supported. 50 Amendment by Yuri Hanustak. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u352	Gentlemen, I continue with this very thought. Look, according to the laws that have been passed before, about centralizing governance in general to all that is moving, to the level of the highest authority, the law establishes that everything is carried out by the State Department. And the main thing is that according to the law that has already been passed, it's not just the State Commission, but in the person of the central body, it's the State Commission. You're paralyzing all the activity at all. It's such a corrupt norm that you can't even imagine. This is not a standard that goes beyond seven years, but to life imprisonment for the person who will sign the relevant land-deriban acts. Come on, let's go! If you want to do something, well, steal what they say, let's share with other organs of the state, with the local authorities of the state, because the pyramid will move exactly as it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u353	It's an amendment to the 50th vote, Yuri Hanushchak. [[20:54:15]] For 1 The amendment is not accepted. 59th Amendment, Yuri Hanushchak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u354	Vladimir Mikhailovich, 53rd for confirmation. And let me comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u355	Well, I'll ask for confirmation. You said I'd put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u356	Let me comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u357	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u358	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to listen. This amendment suggests in section V, paragraph (b), of article 83 of the Earth Code that the words “for the benefit of the territorial community” should be deleted. And in the first reading, we wrote that alienation for the benefit of the territorial community of land for social needs and for reasons of social necessity is in accordance with the law. So the point was that land outside of state property could have been alienated for the benefit of the territorial community. We're putting a knife in the back, putting the territorial communities in the back. And since it's not in the first reading, it's now proposed in this amendment. So I'm asking questions about confirming it. I mean, I want to encourage you not to support her, because she's a completely criminal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u359	Dear colleagues, Amendment 53 is included. At the request of the National MP, I am voting for 53 amendments. Please vote. [[20:56:00]] For 239. Correction confirmed. Please show the factions. Region Party – 185, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-fractional – 14. 59th Amendment. Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u360	Ladies and gentlemen! I think in the case of those silent slaves, we should order a word. You are now being followed by local councils, city heads, village heads, and village heads. You strike them in the back, and then you go and ask them to vote for you. You're not just punching them in the back, you're punching them in the back at nine o'clock. And when no one does, you think they don't listen to you when no one does.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u361	I'm asking, let's make an amendment, let's make an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u362	He can't say anything. That's my word. This is the amendment, because this amendment foresees that it is incomprehensible to whom everything is passed, all the countries except those that are limited within the population. That's my testimony. So that's what I'm saying clearly on this amendment. Because my position was different. Anything that's not related to government property.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u363	Dear colleagues, calm down. Please, let's do some repairs. If we argue with her, let's move on. 59 amendments to the vote. [[20:57:58]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. The next amendment is 60. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u364	Yuri Carmazin. Proposal, 60 revisions. It is suggested in article 84, part two, after the first sentence, that the second sentence be supplemented by a new sentence, which reads: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees on particularly important issues.” I base this on the fact that the issue of the acquisition and realization by the State of the right to land should be agreed with the Supreme Council of Ukraine as such, which is particularly important for the economic development of the country and falls under article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Because of this, everything that is going on today during this evening's session is an attack on the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, the right of every citizen of a small or large country to rule, mother, to grant rights to territorial communities. Please support the amendment, and I ask the Head to stop the violation of the Rules that is taking place today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u365	Dear colleagues, let's go with the breach. Did you write your application? Written. Now I'm going according to the Rules. I want to say again, I'm not talking to you or yelling, and now we're talking about all the amendments that you insist on. Anything else, if there are any problems under article 48, please continue to consider. And stop this violence. I beg of you, dear fellows. I'm not asking, I'm in charge of a meeting of the Supreme Council. I can't cancel the Supreme Council's decision, and you understand that. Please, please, please. Amendment to the 60th. I'm putting her to the vote. You're doing all your functions and you're doing a good job. Don't shout. Please. You have no reason to blame me. [[21:00:14]] For the The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 61, Yuri Hanushtzak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u366	I want to explain to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, what lawlessness is. The vote raised the question of implementing the Law on the Rules, did it not? And it was decided not to comply with the Law of the Law, which is called lawlessness. Now, as amended, if it's about what's going on, the realisation of the land, then at least the competent authorities, the ones who actually got their mandate through the President who appointed the Heads of State, are, in fact, a college body. In this case, it is not clear to whom to do so. So this is proposed to the central authority on land issues, the local authorities, to whom specifically? I tell you again, once again, this is going to be a huge level of corruption, you can't do that. And I wonder why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u367	Vote 61 of Yuri Hanushtak’s amendment. [[21:01:45]] For two. The amendment is not supported. Amendment 62, Yuri Carmazin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u368	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, dear Mr. Head, I propose that part three of article 84 be made available in such an editorial that would reveal the issue of the State’s acquisition of the right to land and not allow for the narrowing of what it is now, which creates a mixed interpretation. As a result, I propose to write: "To the lands of state property that cannot be transferred to communal property belong the land used or used for nuclear energy and space systems, the land of defence, except land under socio-cultural, civil, industrial and residential objects, the land under natural conservation funds and historical and cultural objects, the land under public and international water objects, the land used to secure the activities of the Supreme Council, the President, the government, the land areas of alienation, the land that are secured by state professional and technical educational establishments, the land that is secured by higher educational institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u369	These positions are set out here, Yuri Anatolyevich, and they are put to the vote, i.e. 62 amendments. [[21:03:23]] For 1 The amendment is not accepted. Please, let's go to 63. 63 is counted. Please be reasonable. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u370	Yuri Carmazin. It happened that in 1996 the Constitution of Ukraine was adopted, part of the seventh article of which reads: "In Ukraine, foreign military bases are prohibited." Whoever doesn't remember, I'll remind you that I'm the author of this amendment. And thank God she existed. You washed it, you made it out of it now that without a lease agreement you gave our territory away for many years. No lease. That's it. This amendment is designed to complement article 84, paragraph "and" with a third of this content: land used by the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine on the basis of international agreements ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to stress that no lease agreement, which is referred to in paragraph 12 of the Transitional Regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine, has been concluded by Ukraine. That's why I'm putting this amendment on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u371	Dear colleagues, you will prepare for the vote, and I will read you the standard of the Constitution. The use of existing military bases in Ukraine for the temporary stay of foreign military formations is possible on lease terms as defined by the international treaties of Ukraine ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So from the point of view of the Constitution, there are no violations here. Questions. Listen, don't scream. The question is, what is the rent price, how much it corresponds to the market value of the land? Yuri Anatolyovich! Yuri Anatolyovich! I'm asking you, Your Honor, to be precise. Please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on amendment 63, which is supported and considered by the committee, to confirm it. Please vote. [[21:05:53]] For 234 Correction counted. Next. Amendment 68. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u372	Yuri Carmazin. With regard to amendment 68, I suggest in article 117 that we put it this way: "The transfer of land of state property to municipal property and land of municipal property to public property" is a name. "The transfer of land of state property to municipal property and land of municipal property into state property shall be carried out exclusively in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Code for Legal Persons." I submit this proposal in view of the substantial change in the procedure for the transfer of land of state property to municipal property and land of municipal property, as defined in article 117 of the Code of Land. The proposed option should not be considered properly worked. In particular, a new edition of this article focuses attention on land that cannot be transferred from state property to municipal and vice versa. However, this does not automatically take away the question of the composition of land that can specifically shift from one property to another. Also.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u373	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, the 68th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u374	Please be supportive. [[21:07:35]] For-9 The amendment is unfortunately not supported. It's on. Amendment 73 Yuri Hanoushka. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u375	I'm actually surprised at the Communists, but they're writing on a bunch of posters about what they won't sell on private property.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u376	Please correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u377	And that's what this is after.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u378	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u379	They sit quietly and this one, and they keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u380	Well, you're about to tell me what's still on the fence. Well, you don't have to, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u381	In fact, I still have time, actually. The whole point is that taking land that goes under some kind of property should go, if it's public property, it should follow the principles of delimiting powers between levels. This is the saying, this is the norm, and it's proposed to make it into this law. And I don't understand why such a simple enough thing, which is logical enough, it's deflecting. Because it's a different principle than delimiting the powers of a defined law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u382	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are 73 amendments to the vote. As long as the vote goes on, I ask the committees to take into account the amendments of Hanushtak and Karmazin, so that we don't have any problems. Right? [[21:09:12]] For the four of us. 74 for confirmation? Please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u383	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! On the basis of the inadmissibility of Amendment 74, I would like to point out that they apply to Article 118 of Part 1 and Part 6, and that I therefore refer you to paragraph 1 of the remark of the General Legal Administration, which I am underlining, and you may also see that this should be a guide, that there have been changes that were not considered at the time of its adoption under the first reading procedure, and here it is emphasized that this applies to articles 15, 118 and 122 of the Ukraine Code of Land. As a result, in violation of article 116 of the Law on the Rules, which prevents changes to articles that were not considered in the first reading, I demand that I withdraw without confirmation and without a vote, by your will as Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u384	Unfortunately, I don't have that option. I'd love to. One minute, one minute, don't yell. So I can only put a motion to vote to confirm this amendment. I am voting on the proposal of National Deputy Yuri Karmazin to confirm Amendment 74. Please vote. They won't back up now, and we'll be fine. [[21:11:16]] For 230 Correction confirmed. Let's get this over with, respectable fellows! 80 amendments, Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u385	Let me at least get to her.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u386	This is page 26, you have 80 and 81.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u387	I'm saying once again that there's authority of local self-government, there's a charter of local self-government that we've ratified. If we disrespect our Constitution, at least let's not disrespect international treaties. And the Charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, is part of our legislation, and this is actually an international treaty. And this paper predicts that the earth is the basis for ownership of local self-government, the organs of local self-government. And that's exactly the same thing I'm proposing to introduce into this law. Because you take away the basics at all, and then you wonder why we have no initiative at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u388	Dear colleagues, 80 amendments to the vote were rejected by the committee, author Yuri Hanustzak. [[21:13:07]] For the Correction not supported. Yuri Ivanovich 83, one minute, 81 revisions by Yuri Hanushtak
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u389	It's up to 88.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u390	Wait, I gave the man my word. Wait. Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u391	I made this suggestion to the same Sevastopol City Council, which essentially gave it the authority to manage all the lands by ignoring the authority of others who are part of this council. But I'm asking you to pay attention to that and bring it in, and I think it's going to be in the transcript that there are actually 55 people here. I mean, of course I understand that the Constitution means nothing to you. Then it turns out that I came here to an unconstitutional body that violates the Constitution itself. I'm ashamed to sit between you because they say it's, well, it's kind of wild. I'll be ashamed to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u392	Dear colleagues, there are 81 amendments to the vote. I'm also ashamed that you're giving such business proposals and voting only for yourself, and your faction doesn't support it. I'm ashamed too. What kind of group is this? [[21:14:47]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Sergey Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u393	I'd like to draw attention to 78 amendments. 78 The amendment was not considered at first reading. It must be expelled from the body of the bill. This is a serious violation of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act. And last of all, I'm telling Political Provokator Hanushtak that he'll mention once again where he doesn't need the Ukrainian Company, right here, in the session room he's going to get what political provokers get. Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company did not vote, support or support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u394	One minute, well, 78 amendments have already been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u395	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u396	Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, come on. Not yet, you are. I beg you, there are other national MPs who are keeping a close eye on the text. Get some rest, please. Dear colleagues, 78th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u397	A completely different position, there are more than ten positions, there are nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u398	Well, what difference does it make? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u399	But they're filling in. Vladimir Mikhailovich, give it to me, then ask. Please, this is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u400	I'm a normal person, so there's nothing I can do for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u401	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm fine too.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u402	I'm asking you, well, so give it to me. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u403	Vladimir Mikhailovich, give me a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u404	Please. Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u405	It's getting out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u406	Please, the microphone. Express yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u407	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u408	Replica at the end, after the question has been considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u409	The right-hand man was a national deputy, Gordienko, but he didn't say everything. Because there are a lot of things buried in this amendment. First of all, it is stated in paragraph 4 that the central executive authority on land issues can distribute any land, pass it on to all needs. Except for the cases predicted. When for the government, paragraph 8. And the next thing you know, it's in this amendment. This amendment in paragraph 8 also covers that the Cabinet of Ministers is transferring land from the state-owned land to ownership or use in cases defined by 149, 150 to the statutory capital of the State Land Bank. There's a "Zarita" big dog. There was nothing like that in the first reading! That's why we broke this law. And because of that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted you to give me your word. So everyone can understand what's going on. What we're talking about is the return of ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u410	Two national deputies opposed the article. against amendment 78, which is supported by the committee. It should therefore be put to the vote. I place an article 78 on the vote to confirm it. [[21:18:23]] For 223 Correction not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u411	They are not the authors of this amendment. Please come back and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u412	Well, I'm voting for the return to Amendment 78. The committee's head is demanding. So it's me. [[21:19:04]] For 239. We're back. I'll bet you a vote on the approval of this amendment. And please, dear fellows, or you work. I'm not gonna play you all the time. confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u413	Let them not run in the hall, let them stop, for 50 people sell the land. Stop them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u414	Please. [[21:19:30.]] For 232 Correction confirmed. 93 Camasina’s Amendment
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u415	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have now committed a brutal violation of the Constitution, and you know it. You've allowed an eight-vote vote by one person, and that counts for the adoption of the law. It's a brutal violation of the Constitution, I remind you of that, even though you know it without me. In Amendment 89, I propose paragraph six.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u416	93rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u417	Article 123 exclude, namely: “Earthly areas of state and municipal property, where buildings are located, other objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u418	Yuri Anatolyevich, 89 revisions count as yours. Now, if you'll excuse me, please argue with Amendment 93.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u419	Wait, that's what you gave me, 80.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u420	No, it's 93rd. Please, 93rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u421	93 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. The question is to exclude part 11 and article 123. The point is that when land is transferred to enterprises, institutions, utilities, and public property, the transfer of land to public property is made simultaneously to municipal property and vice versa. And in the twelfth, "The transfer of a building and a building, another property of immovable property of state property to municipal property, is the basis for transfer to the same property of the land on which the object of transfer is located and vice versa." This proposal is made in connection with the fact that such a legislative position in practice can lead to numerous abuses. In order not to allow this to happen, I am introducing this amendment 93. Please be supportive. The President will then be asked to veto, including on these grounds that I have just said.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u422	Dear colleagues, the amendment of 93 Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. Please support her. [[21:22:17]] For -8 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 95 of Yuri Carmaine. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u423	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 95 refers to the amendment. I propose that the first part of article 133 should read as follows: "Indemnities may be transferred to land belonging to citizens and legal persons only on the right of ownership and rights to them (land lease rights, the right to use a foreign land for agricultural purposes (emphi tevsis), the right to use a foreign land to forget (superfinitions) in case of non-legislative use." This proposal is made in view of the unacceptability of the author’s proposal. After all, land may be donated to the mortgage. Such a position can lead to the plundering of the state by means of corrupt schemes of high - ranking workers. I would like to stress that this bill of anti-corruption expertise has not been passed in violation of anti-criminal legislation. Because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u424	Dear colleagues, the vote is based on Amendment 95 of Yuri Carmazin. [[21:23:49]] For two. Correction not supported. Amendment 99 Yuri Karmazin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u425	Yuri Carmazin. What do you know about the fact that everyone else has given up their offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u426	Yes, I was told that they were refusing their amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u427	They all say no, don't they?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u429	Well, that's very good. And so I ask for part two of article 149 to be presented in this paper: "The removal of land is carried out solely by the consent of land users and on the basis of decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local government administrations, rural, rural and urban councils according to their authority." End of quote. This proposal is made in view of the fact that the editorial proposal is proposed by the authors in order to greatly simplify the removal of land and to withdraw authority from appropriate rural, rural, city councils, which may lead to speculation and abuse. The kind that I've already shown you, which were at Amendment 78, installed here purely.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u430	Amendment 99 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[21:25:27]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. Yuri Carmazin's amendment is 104 again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u431	Yuri Carmazin. My amendment 104 refers to the proposal for part two of article 150 to be made in such an editorial. I'm giving it literally. "Early areas of particularly valuable land held in state or municipal property may be redeemed, redeemed for the construction of public property, roads, electricity and communications lines, pipelines, drying and irrigation channels, geodesic sites, housing, socio-cultural objects, oil and gas wells and manufacturing facilities associated with their operation, strategic objects by decision of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine or by decision of the relevant local council, if the issue of removal, the purchase of land is previously agreed upon by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." End of offer. This proposal is made in view of the fact that the author’s editorial proposal does not give rise to the removal of land. Article 84 of the Land Code, which establishes a list of lands, is disregarded.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u432	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich, Amendment 105 actually takes your amendment into account, it's less detailed. So it expands the authority in this part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, you insist, I'm voting 104 on Yuri Carmazin's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u433	Please back up! [[21:27:23]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. The amendment of Yuri Hanushtzak. In a row, the two revisions are 107 and 108. Please, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u434	Well, first of all, I want to thank Gordon for noticing and asking for confirmation 78 of the amendment. It means only one thing that my efforts to awaken a civil conscience at least in some part of this room have not proved to be in vain, thank you. And after this amendment, I'm going to say that really, if we don't do this, then we're going to concentrate in one hand in one place on such unlimited power that the tender room is going to seem, well, literally childish. You can't do that. I realize that they're already written, they say, what they're going to cost, they say, a ladder of that area or that area. But you have to be absolutely aware of what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u435	This vote is based on the 107th Amendment of Yuri Hanushtak. [[21:28:57]] For the Correction not supported. Amendment 108, Yuri Hanushtzak's microphone. Yuri Ivanovich, please 108 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u436	Here's the definition that this is the boundary of the city, the village, the village council. I'm starting to understand that the administrative maps that we sell in every kiosk, in other stores, and the red line that goes, are the limits of the jurisdiction of the rural, rural, city council. And from this point of view that there can be no breakup, that's exactly what this amendment is saying, so we're going to have to remake all the cards completely, it's going to work. Because in this case the cards will be sold in a different way, it is a red frame of the corresponding inhabited area, and then the emptiness, it is still not clear who can do so. Because even to reconcile a small procedure, you will have to go with a large suitcase before that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u437	108 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[21:30:30]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Amendment 110, Ganushka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u438	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u439	110th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u440	All of these amendments apply to the same thing and to the need to give local self - government real opportunities to govern the earth. Because it's really going to be such an interesting situation that even to agree on the simple smallest changes in the land configurations, you're going to have to go to the authorized authority. How is it not clear what authority, or central authority, or local authority? The organ system isn't defined because according to the law that we've adopted before, the organ is only central, and everyone else doesn't have the right to sign it at all, so they have the right to take bribes. Maybe so, then they concentrate and they know the mountain and there on the top of this central organ.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u441	110 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[21:32:02]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Amendment of Yuri Carmazin 114, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u442	Yuri Karmazin, Amendment 114 refers to the fact that in section X of the Transitional Regulations, I propose that paragraph 10 should be left in good order, namely: "the decision to separate the land of state and municipal property within the localities is taken by rural, rural city councils according to agreement with the executive authorities. And outside the population, the executive authorities agree with the local authorities. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine defines the boundaries of land in which objects of immovable property belonging to the administration of the President, the Supreme Council, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, and others are located. Determining the boundaries of land areas where immovable property is located in the area of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea determines the areas of the Kyiv City Administration to determine the boundaries of the land areas on which objects of immovable property located in the area of the administration of district government administrations are located. This is a proposal for an exclusive mechanism for demarcating state and municipal property.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u443	Amendment 114 shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u444	Please be supportive. [[21:33:39]] For the four of us. The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 118, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u445	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 118 is considered at 21 hours 34 minutes at an even smaller number of four men from the Party of Regions left without them in the hall. So now there are only 50 people out of the majority who accept. vote in favour of the law. As a result, I propose in the Land Rental Act that part 4 of article 4 should be left in good order, namely: “relanders of land owned by the State: district, district, Kiev, Sevastopol City Administrations, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within the limits of the powers defined by law”. I submit this proposal because the editorial that is currently proposed by the authors violates the rights of public administrations and local authorities. So you have to leave this part in the actual form. I think it'll suit the people's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u446	The vote is amended by 118th. [[21:35:14]] For-7. Correction not supported. The 121st amendment. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u447	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I thank you very much for all of you who have supported us now -- these seven people, the carefree people. There are still decent and honest people in this room who may be called opponents and generally advocates of the interests of the Ukrainians. In Amendment 121, I propose, in the Ukrainian Land Authority Act, article 25, paragraph (d), to read: “projects of land structure for the formation of land of municipal property of territorial communities and projects for the delimitation of land of state and municipal property of localities”. End of quote. This proposal is made in connection with the incomprehensible position of the authors regarding the removal of the above projects from the country’s documentation, which may lead to misunderstandings and incomplete accounting of the lands involved. Furthermore, article 49 lays down the requirements for such projects, and it is inappropriate to remove them from the content of the article, while providing for a list of land belonging to public property in the framework of the projects by an arrangement to establish and change the boundaries of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u448	It's the 121st amendment. [[21:36:46]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Amendment 125, Yuri Hanustak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, as a former expert in the Ukrainian City Association, I am now horrified to imagine the reaction of city heads and village heads to this law. Yes, I will say that I have done everything possible to ensure that those who vote, who sit here in the hall, do not say, "We have not been aware of what we have stressed here." Because when the time comes, everything is said to be due to everyone, because it will be. This is in fact absolutely, because the amendment that I'm correcting is the last attempt to uphold the right of local self-government right now, and you're taking it so brutally that I'm surprised that you're being tolerated by this land that you're now giving to someone who you don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u450	Amendment 125 shall be put to the vote. [[21:38:13]] For the Correction not supported. Amendment 130, Yuri Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u451	Yuri Carmazin. The amendment concerns my proposal, which is that I propose that you delete the changes made to section II, paragraph 4, of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations, and other legislative acts of Ukraine, so-called a legislative act. This proposal is due to the proposal that the authors amend the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations and other legislative acts that do not comply with the requirements of the norm. the techniques according to which changes are made to the law, not to the law on making changes to it. This is required by article 90 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, which states that the bill can only provide for changes to the text of the original law. The law, the code, the basis of the legislation, not the law amending the legislation. You want it or you don't want it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u452	130 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[21:39:45]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. Amendment 133 Yuri Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u453	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 133 refers to part six of the first part of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Expertise on Earthly Documentation, which I propose to leave in the version that has been verified over time. These are: "The land structure projects for the formation of the land of municipal property of the territorial communities and projects for the delimitation of the land of the state and municipal property of the settlements." The proposal is based on the abolition of state expertise, land - building projects for the formation of communal property of territorial communities, and projects for the delimitation of state and municipal property of population sites is unacceptable and corrupt. In general, it is worth noting that the author’s position regarding the exclusion of projects from the list of projects for which an expert should necessarily be conducted seems like lobbying the interests of a particular group of persons. Thus, the current norm should remain in national law. Well, I was asked by the leaders of some factions to speak louder.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u454	The vote is set to 133 amendments. [[21:41:19]] For-7. Correction not supported. Amendment 136. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u455	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 136. These are changes to paragraph 4 of the first part of article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which I propose to leave in place. It is the separation of state and municipal property in the order established by law. This proposal is due to the fact that the removal of this standard will result in a narrowing of the legal powers of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which we guarantee with you by the Ukrainian Constitution, which we have guaranteed with you the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That's why I'm pointing out that this could lead to additional distortions in autonomy entirely on the grounds that you're giving them right now. You're violating their rights as an autonomous entity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u456	Dear colleagues, we have 136 amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u457	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u458	[[21:42:51]] For -6 Correction not supported. And amendment 141. Yuri Carmazin, microphone. And please invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u459	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose in 141 amendments to chapter III of the bill to exclude part seven. It's a stupid amendment at all. It says, "Since the date of this act, the land of state and municipal property in Ukraine has been considered to be separate." I pay your attention, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to your attention as well as to the President, because I see that he has to write, that I have nothing more to do, that the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has clearly written you in paragraph 8 of its observations, in paragraph 9 of its observations, that this provision, which the land is considered to be separate, is one that violates the Constitution. Because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u460	A vote of 141 amendments is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u461	Please back up! [[21:44:26]] For-7. Correction not accepted. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u462	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that 33 amendments be made to confirm the expansion of the authority of the Supreme Council on particularly valuable lands. People's deputies would like to support this amendment. Thank you. Please come back and support. Please vote back to 33 revisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u463	Quiet, quiet, calm. May I have your attention, please? Well, take it easy. A motion for a return to consideration of 33 amendments is put to the vote. [[21:45:28]] For 243 We're back. A motion for approval of Amendment 33. Please vote. [[21:45:48]] For 243 Dear colleagues, by factions, please. I'm reminding you that here it's going to go, that especially the valuable land issues about them have to agree with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, what's wrong here? Region Party – 190, BUYT – Fatherland – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-fractional – 14. A motion for acceptance is put to the vote. What's 145? 145 amendment rejected, what do you want with it? They don't want anything anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There is a motion for the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property as a law. Registration number 10043, please vote. [[21:47:19]] For 242 The law is passed. The factions? Please. Dear National Deputies! Factions: The Party of Regions – 191, BUT "The Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, National Party – 19, Reforms for the Future – 16, non-fractional – 14. Dear colleagues! We discussed the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services with the proposals of the President of Ukraine and did not vote, they said after they gave out the table. So now we have to vote on the table, it's given to you. It's 9435 law. So I'm going to put six amendments to the vote there that are included. There is an amendment to this bill number one, and I ask you to vote. It's worked out as in the new edition. [[21:48:24]] For 239. Copy that. Puts to the vote the amendment of the friend, please vote. Dear colleagues! He's promised twice, he'll be promised a third time. [[21:48:43]] For 237 Copy that. The third amendment shall be put to the vote, please vote. [[21:49:03]] For 239. Copy that. Puts to the vote the 4th amendment. Please vote. [[21:49:22]] For 240 I'll bet the vote on the 5th amendment. Please vote. [[21:49:40]] For 242 Copy that. And it's 6 amendments to the vote. [[21:49:59]] For 237 Copy that. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal for acceptance that has been finalized in the new edition, including taking into account the President's proposals, the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services. [[Registration number 9435]] Please vote. [[21:50:31]] For 240 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! Now we have a few laws left, I think. I'm asking for your attention. There are two proposals or we will continue to work now, or in accordance with article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, we can decide to adjust the calendar plan for our activities. I mean, one minute. So that tomorrow we can continue working on the committees, and then on schedule. So, I can see for a second, hold on a second. Wait, please. So there are two options, or we're going to keep looking at these questions that we have, we have five bills here. Or we'll take a decision with you to adjust the calendar of our work, then if you'll allow it and we've decided to make the parliamentary requests that we have. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, there aren't many of them there, dear colleagues, and that's my problem. In order for us not to accumulate them, the MPs turned to this point. And then Friday we have work to do on the committees, and then the next plenary week, when we have it, we'll work there and be determined. Because that's not how you do things, too, your esteemed colleagues, when one part is present, and the other part is only present to the queue. Do you understand? Let's do some work. [[B in m in s a l in]] So which ones will we continue to consider? So, shall we go on? I'll do it. Let me put it to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, Sass and Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u464	Deputy Sas, “BUT – Fatherhood”. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you took note of the requirements of part two of article 19, provides for a short discussion procedure when adjusting the plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u465	That's right, I had it for a brief discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u466	Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u467	Dear colleagues, when we approach this issue, the reduced procedure will be. I told you everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u468	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Come on. No, I haven't finished my opinion. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're depriving the people's deputies tomorrow, so listen to the government. At this morning's meeting, Arsenij Yatzenuk addressed this issue, which took place in the country with regard to the collapse of the bracelet and suggested that he listen to the Prime Minister's Supreme Council on this issue. Tomorrow, according to the law, we have a year of questions to the government. And I demand that it be conducted, this is article 35 of the Cabinet of Ministers Act and article 229.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u469	Ladies and gentlemen, we will address this issue, discuss it. But you told me once again that there is an article in 19 that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after discussion on a reduced procedure, can adjust the calendar plan. If someone really wants to listen to the Prime Minister, they need to be in the room, working and making decisions. We're running out of people who write clothes. We have a lot of chiefs, no servants, you know. And that's the problem with the country. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u470	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'll let myself remember. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikhail Vasilevich! I would like to remind myself that we have offered to listen to the Minister of Education and Science of Tobacco tomorrow. And we have the right to adjust our work. That is why we can remove this issue and move on to the next one. We will support here, Vladimir Mikhailovich, your proposal. There's only one request. Given the fact that the heads of the land committee are here, there are two bills for us to close this block, it is 11116 and 11131 to consider. Then, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we will vote in favour of adjusting the plan, and you will read out the treatment of the deputies. requests from MPs. And that's where we can finish our work today. If you could back us up on that. I think we have fully implemented the programme that was marked for the current week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u471	Dear National Deputies! Then let's build it this way. There are suggestions. Including now continuing to work. There is a proposal to consider two bills: 11116, 11131. Then a brief discussion will be held about adjusting the calendar plan. After you and I have accepted, if the Supreme Council decides to make a decision to make parliamentary inquiries and to finish our work. [[There are not many of them — 114]] Should I vote? No, it's not. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the procedure for the removal of land and their purpose is then announced for consideration. [[Registration number 11116]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[21:56:38]] For 224 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Miroshnichenko. Gregory Kaletnik will be speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u472	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable voters, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act to amend some Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for the removal of land and change their purpose. [[Registration number 11116]] The bill proposes to amend articles 20, 118, 122, 123, 151, 186, 186-1 of the Ukrainian Land Code and article 50 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act. The proposed edition of article 20 of the Ukrainian Code of Land will simplify the order of the change in the destination of land, since the need for decisions by executive authorities or local government to permit the development of a project is being reversed. According to practice, the permission to design a project does not guarantee that after it has been formed, the executive or local government will make a positive decision on its approval. Since permission does not affect the final decision of the executive or local authorities, there is no need to obtain it at the initial stage. The bill proposes to eliminate the commission on issues related to the acceptance of the land administration documentation by amending articles 118, 123, 151, 186, 186-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. According to practice, experts who do not have the right to sign the relevant conclusion that they are actually blocking the work of the commission are sent to the commission. In addition, the bill proposes to reduce the number of permitting authorities involved in agreeing with the country’s documentation. Amendments to article 50 of the Ukrainian Law on Land Administration will strengthen the composition and content of the projects at the legislative level by means of an arrangement that will avoid abuses by executive authorities and local self - government in the process of agreeing and approving the specified documentation. Dear colleagues, taking into account what has been said, please support the bill proposed under heading 11116. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u473	Thank you. Gregory Mikolayovich, what does the committee think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u474	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I have the opportunity to make a proposal to accept this bill as a basis, and we will prepare it for second reading as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u475	If anyone insists on speaking up, please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Communist faction Volinec Eugene. Sergei Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u476	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! We are witnessing a brutal violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the previous bill. As for today's bill. I think it would be right to call it a change to some Ukrainian legislation on improving the procedure for land capture and changing their purpose in an illegal way. What are you talking about? Dear comrades, we actually know how to take possession of the land. Think about it. Today's law says: "The change in the target destination of land occupied by forests is based on the conclusions of the executive authorities on environmental protection and forestry. [[at least one point]] It's off. We don't have to agree with anyone. All of it. I just took over, yours, and let them forget forever the way you took him. But you have to have a conscience after all. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote against these bills, which are being pushed in an unfair way. And we didn't understand from the committee head's report whether it was his offer or his position to support the committee. And whether you've been looking at the committee, and whether there's a decision, because tomorrow we're going to be asking questions and documents, whether there's a committee decision or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u477	Yuri Carmazin. One minute, then. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u478	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what kind of things are forcing us to make these changes right now, but, although the Party of Fatherland's Defenders doesn't support the Company in all matters, the previous speaker is 300 percent right. As this bill is being considered today, think about it, although it was only introduced and registered on August 28, 2012. It's only recently introduced. He doesn't have the conclusion of scientific expertise. He doesn't have any anti-corruption expertise. We have this function in this case, at least to some extent, of scientific expertise. And to the end. What is the point when the Committee on Land Relations did not consider the matter? What is your conclusion? In general, the question was not considered. So, colleague Sass, this issue is being dealt with with with with a grave violation of the Law on the Rules, with a grave violation of the Anti-Corruption Act because it is intended to conduct an expert study. And that's what Mr. Lavrinovich should do. Mr. Lavrinovich has already prepared to run the Supreme Council. It'll be a little early. You have to, Mr. Lavrinovich, do your duty, that's what I'm telling you. And you're already preparing for the Supreme Council to lead it. The wound. Now let's see what you're doing here in this law. Article 20 of the Code of Land, if it was previously stated in part three that the change in the target destination of land owned by citizens or legal persons is being carried out under the initiative of owners in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers, is now simply written "on the initiative of landowners". But we have everything going on in the state at the initiative of the owners. Absolutely everything is happening. They do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u479	Thank you. Sergei Sas, please. Faction "BUT" is "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u480	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." Vladimir Mikhailovich, once your genius forerunner said, "Where do you push him, how does he not climb?" Do you remember that classical expression?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u482	The committee didn't consider it. There's no such thing as science-expert management, as Carmazin said. But with respect to the bill, I would like to say the following and to address, perhaps first of all, those who may still be listening to us. Having passed the previous law, respected colleagues, friends who were required to leave the land, you had previously driven bribes to district, district, land administrations. Now in order to solve these issues, you need to drive bribes to the central authority of the executive body on land relations regulation. Be ready for this. And this is a continuation of the same subject. Therefore, be vigilant and know who you are dealing with and how you are dealing with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u483	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to adopt draft Law 11116 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedure for the removal of land and the change of its intended purpose is based on a vote. Based on what I said. [[2:05:17]] For 242 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the deregulation of agricultural activities in the field of land administration and land-based work]] [[11131]] I'm putting the motion to the vote under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[22:05:48]] For 226 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Miroshnichenko. Then Gregory Kaletnik of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u484	Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, the bill calls for the abolition of the licensing of economic activity for work with the land administration and land-based work and certification of the performers who carry out such work. The certification of the performers is to establish a personal responsibility institution for their work and services. Such responsibility will ensure that there is no concept of impunity or legal nihilism, when it violates the requirements of legislation, standards, or standards. The bill will limit government regulation of land management and land assessment, encourage free competition in relevant markets, improve production efficiency and promote consumer rights, services, land administration and evaluation. With a view to preventing the total loss of State control in the area of economic activity in respect of land administration work, land assessment work, the bill introduces the introduction of a national register of land-use operators and an expert financial assessment of land areas, which is a preventive measure to prevent the production of land-based documentation in violation of legislative and regulatory requirements in the area of land-use and to ensure that land quality improves. This new, more liberal model of government regulation is based on an assessment of the ability of specialists to do the work. Dear colleagues! Please support and approve Bill 11131. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u485	Gregory Kaletnik, where? Please sign up for the performance, sign up for the performance then. Name, please. Yuri Carmazin, please, Yuri Carmazin. It's too late. Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u486	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is only four numbers posted on the Internet today on the 6th, the evening, you and I are here all morning. If you think this is a normal term that fits the Rules, I am again addressing my colleague, Sasa, as the first deputy chairman of the Rules Committee, because I see no head of the Rules Committee. Because it is a brutal violation of the rule of law. And secondly, it's also a violation because the committee hasn't considered this bill and couldn't yet consider it, it's not easy. It's hard to blame him. And what's more, the science-expert administration, of course, only got it for consideration and couldn't write about any conclusions yet. Because of this, the bill is not to be considered in essence, the honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich. And we've always done this as soon as we saw that the Rules were broken, which is that it's only been introduced that there's no committee conclusion that we've made such bills. To what do we need to do so to deregulation of our agricultural activities by carrying out work with the earth’s system? And I'll tell you about what? In view of the fact that you are already in the state of selling nothing, you have already become so proficient that you have now destroyed the gold reserve, now you are lowering the land and everything you need to do right now, and you are preparing the foundation for it. That is why, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you did not say in the previous law that he was adopted only in the first reading, implying that he was in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u487	Yes, Sergei Sass, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u488	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT" Fatherland. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I still don't understand whether you're being bullied or just not understanding what's going on. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm talking to you. I wasn't looking at the committee. If all the land officials had heard this right now, I don't know if they were talking about us. They've been subjected to constant reforms in the Land, the name is changed, the structure is changed, there's no cadastre, there's no cadastre, they don't work for five months because they don't have regulations on their work. And this is another genius reform from the point of view of evaluation work. Now, let's go back to our qualifications again, again bribes, again money, again disorder. Do you understand? There's a Faust once. Well, I don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u489	Dear colleagues, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on the deregulation of economic activity from land administration and land-based work. Based on what Sergey Sass warned on the basis. [[22:12:14]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm going back to those suggestions that we've already begun to discuss. We've been working for 22 hours today, we've considered, practically, everything the Cabinet of Ministers has proposed, the factions have suggested that tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine, or the Ukrainian National Deputies, will work on committees so that there are no more mutual claims here, accusations that not all bills are prepared. Next plenary. Next week, we're back on the committee. And on September 18th, we start working, we continue to work in plenary until September 21st. In accordance with article 19 of the Rules, a brief discussion of the matter is required. And another is proposed if the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports such a decision, to make parliamentary inquiries today. Please sign up for this. So please, the names of the national MPs. Yuri Carmazin, then Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u490	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, someone once saw Grivkowski. I'd like to give him a word, because it's the first one written there, and I'm the second one. But I think he's sleeping just as well as any other citizen. Dear National Deputies! I'm not talking to you right now, I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. You can see that today's session has worked for those who are in a hurry to scratch the earth in their pockets. It worked for them. They passed the law, they did everything. The question now is what to do tomorrow, because there is a law besides the Law on Rules, there is also the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which he is obliged to do in full, with the Prime Minister of Ukraine alone, to be here tomorrow. And I want to correct, maybe then I'll take a replica of the head of the distinguished faction, the largest, most decisive faction of the Ephraims, who said it was they who called the minister of education. No, Your Honor. All over the world, opposition calls on the government because you see it there every day, and the opposition calls on the government to tell you what's going on with the bracelet, why it's been laid down, where the gold money was being distributed, why the price of trains was rising, why people were being cut down on railways today, why people were forced to take vacations today. Because there's no money, they say it's only for October. That's all the Prime Minister had to say tomorrow. That's why I think we should postpone this position. You can go anywhere, but the government should be in the Supreme Council. Tomorrow. It says so: Friday. There's an election campaign, there's no election campaign -- he has to report every Friday. And I believe that, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, we must not violate this. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u491	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is the Fatherland" faction. The next one will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u492	Sass, “BUT – Parenthood”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! In this room, most have repeatedly called for opposition, a minority to cooperate. The kind of cooperation you're showing today, we already see. But what kind of cooperation do you propose tomorrow? Tomorrow, according to article 35 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, as said by Yuri Anatolyevich, there should be a government in full stock, and we should ask him questions. For this reason, Arsenius Yatzenuk spoke from the rostrum today, underlining the collapse of the bracelet, regarding the state of the gold currency reserve, regarding the food crisis, the increase in food products in relation to non-fertilization. We'd like to hear the answers from the Cabinet of Ministers on all these questions and a number of other questions. You have denied your rights, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You're going to make a statement today. I wanted to ask you five more questions tomorrow, nine o'clock, and I have the right to do so, and you denied me the right to ask these questions for them to be declared. And that's why in the village, in Crimea, which is called the Red Mac, whatever it is, there will be no water. I can give other examples. You're taking away tomorrow, you're afraid of communicating with fellow members of the national MPs, you're going to address the current problems that each region has with the various issues. And you do it, you do it artificially. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, everything that could be violated was violated today. I don't know, you just didn't accept it today, you had to vote all the laws until the end of the convocation, by one vote to accept it as a whole, close the Supreme Council and put an end to this mess. There are 55 deputies in the hall now from the majority who seem to be working, which is the point of your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u493	Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u494	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies who work. I want to address the citizens of Ukraine. First, inform them that today, not just today, but in the last two and a half years, the opposition, so-called opposition, is almost gone. Where they work, what they do is unknown. There is one person, who sees a so - called leader or so - called leaders, making a political statement. And that's the end of their work in the Supreme Council. I want to ask the Chief of the Supreme Council, why do they have a salary? Why, for 2.5 years, they have failed to fulfill their responsibilities. The Ukrainian Parliament doesn't like it. Let them leave. Let them give their mandate, people will come to their place, and they will work. If you were more than us today, you could argue. You're three people today who keep working. And that's why. That's the first question. The second question. Regarding the National Bank or the accusation that the government today or the National Bank does not provide information on what is happening on the gold reserve that is happening with the bracelet. The bracelet is stable. And I remind you. In 2007. In 2008, when the national currency collapsed 2.5 times, you were mostly there, and there was nothing we could do: neither get an answer nor get an explanation from the head of the National Bank, nor from the President, nor from the Prime Minister, nor from anyone. And then there was really the collapse of the economy of Ukraine. Now, one more question. It's about stabilizing. Stabilization, if we're talking about Ukraine and the economic laws that we're adopting today, including if you have specific proposals, you need to put them specifically and work, not at the confrontation, but at the collaboration. We'll never get any results when there's no understanding here. And understanding can't be when you're speaking during the electoral process -- some slogans, some promises that tomorrow we'll be, tomorrow we'll be, tomorrow we'll be. What about tomorrow? When was yesterday? What about today? Why is no one working today? And these constant accusations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u495	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down. I really like that there are a lot of Cossacks out there today who are acting as secretaries in their leaders. [[Applause]] And once again, you invite the government. Come to the session hall for a decent salary, do not go around everywhere, and don’t jinx yourself with beautiful ones. Let's work in the Supreme Council. I want to say again, work for the Supreme Council. You don't like the offer? Stand up, vote, make your proposals. And what you're doing and looking for someone you're looking for is completely wrong. It's not right. Calm down. Calm down. Dear people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m1.u496	Okay, okay, okay. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a vote on the proposal to amend the calendar work plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that tomorrow the Supreme Council, the national deputies will have the opportunity to work on committees and factions. The plenary session of the next Supreme Council, according to the calendar plan, will be held on September 18th. I am voting on this proposal to amend the calendar plan so that tomorrow, September 7, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will work on committees and factions. Please vote. [[22:22:44]] For 265 Decision taken. Now, honourable national MPs, questions. Yeah. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Victor Teren to the President of Ukraine on the guarantee of a stable operation of businesses, adequate material and personnel security of health facilities, an improvement in the environmental situation, and an immediate start to the construction of a bridge through Dnipro in the city of Kremenchuk Poltaw. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[22:23:29]] For-13. Request not supported. Valerija Behwaz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of effective measures to eliminate contradictions in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the increase in pensions granted in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons ", which led to the exclusion of pensioners from the category of persons who are entitled to increase pension insurance in accordance with the above-mentioned legal act. Vladimir Karpuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Head of the Volin District State Administration, Head of the Wallin District Council on the allocation of funds for the renovation and restoration of the Dominican Monastery — a monument to the national architecture of the early 18th century in the city of Lutsk Volinsk. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the electric train with the connection of Wozniessen-Alexandria-Voznesensk in the Poznańka-Oleksandrija district. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution of the problems of the Kirovograd bourgeois complex. Vladimir Yavorowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration on speculations that impede the construction of the subway to the Troještina microregion, namely, the absence of a separate line in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012 and the allocation of the money gap for the construction of the subway in Trojetina as part of the exercise of the city of Kiev as the capital, which does not even allow the preparation of the work. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation in the state-owned company Zakarpatski Helicopter Industrialization, located in the village of Dubové Tachiv district of Zakarpat. Victor Olijnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of the inhabitants of Manevicki, Lubeshivski, Kamen Kashir region of Volinsk region for the non-payment of pensions provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District State Administration for the Inaction of Powerless Authorities in relation to the Accidental Status of Roads of State, ignoring the official duties of the employees of the Divisional Reich Administration of the Odessa Region in relation to Ukrainian citizens who live in the Dzdílnjansk, Velikomihajlovski, Frunziov region of Odessa and the National Deputy of Ukraine, as well as the immediate capital repair of the State-level route within the "Lemanske-Kuchurgani-Split-Greatimihailka-Frunzivka". Victor Sinchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the debt owed by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to the private stock company KAGMA for the production. Victor Terrence to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the integration of financial resources in Ukraine's National Budget project into the full implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children. Vitaly Zharavsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the creditor's debt for work carried out with the technical equipment of the boiler in the village of Golovino, Cherniakhiv region of the Žitomir region and the allocation of funds for the second launch complex. Mikhail Poljančić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for unpaid pension payments to non-working pensioners living in the area of radiological control and children of war in the Curtkov region of Ternopil region, as established by the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster and on the Social Protection of Children of War. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of the drawdown by Czernihiwoblanergo and Czernigów Directorate of the double pay for the payment of electricity consumed from the rural population of the Chernigiv region. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Head of the Odessa District Administration for the illegal price increase for scrapped gas and for ignoring the commission of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the materials of the Office of the Prosecutor of Ukraine's Office and the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 2 December 2011 to take action to establish for all categories of citizens the price of a single cylinder of compressed gas at a level that does not exceed 121 grams of 88 for residents of the Odes region. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of timely and necessary revenues to the automotive companies in the Chernigev region of the State Budget subsidy for the payment of the passengers' benefits. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds to clean up the Lake of Lebedin in the city of Lebedin Sumsk. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the needs of Chernobyl I-IV categories, the disabled of Chernobyl I-III-III groups of the city of Ternopil Islands. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Chief Architect of Kiev City, Head of the Inspectorate of State Architectural and Construction Control in Kiev, Head of the Delhi District in Kiev State Administration for the Inadmissibility of Illegal Construction of Multi-Surface Buildings in the village of Shevchenko in the Podil district of Kyiv on the street of Soshenka, 33. Oleg Zarubinsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the measures applied to owners of enterprises that systematically delay payment of salaries. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the head of the Podil District in Kiev, the State Administration on the need to design and build a metropolis in the city of Kiev in 2013 and subsequent years, and its funding from the state and city budgets. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to develop a state support programme for mobile operators to provide telephone services in mountain settlements. Oleg Zarubinsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the day-to-day supply of drinking water to all residents of apartment buildings. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of all chemical compounds in the list of toxic substances of thali. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to provide drinking water to residents of the town of Zvenigradka Cerkas region. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Lviv Regional Government Administration, the Drobic City Head for the immediate implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as the President's orders at the meeting of the Management Board of the Economic Reform Committee, regarding the non-substantial reduction in the number of secondary schools in the State, the verification of the facts contained in the collective application signed by more than a hundred smallpoxers, the illegal, on intended grounds, the change of status, and the further possible closure of the heads of the Drobician City Council of Public School No. 8 in the town of Drobich of Lviv, the examination of the facts of the theft of public funds issued for the maintenance of the number of secondary schools and the status of non-conversion of schools. Sergia Sasa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation of water supply in the village of Red Mac Bahchisarai in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vladimir Zubanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State support for the creation of books from the history of cities and villages of Ukraine. Sergia Košin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal conduct of the management of the Plain State Administration and the Regional Regional Administration of the Rhineland Region and the protection of the personal rights of employees of the state institutions of the Vladimir region to freely choose the banking institution through which wages are to be paid. Veacheslava Koval and Alexander Crnvolenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the head of the Delhi District in Kiev, the State Administration for Breakages with Hot Water of the Winegrower Housing and Other Housing Houses in the Podil district of Kiev as a result of the failure to pay public compensation. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of funding for the Ukrainian World Coordinating Council in the Ukrainian State Budget in 2013. [[A rabbit, a silent rabbit, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Jury Karmazin to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the immediate review of the legality of the Odessa City Council decision No. 1761-VI of 28 February 2012, which was reorganized by the Geriatric Pension for Lonely Persons of the Pedagogical Street, 24 in Odessa, which resulted in a gross violation of the social rights of its inhabitants, the commission by officials of the Odessa District Crime Council, provided for in articles 14, 219, 364, 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the use of urgent measures to respond to the appeal of the decision of the Odessa District Court of Justice on 14 August 2012 on the issue of the abolition of the criminal code of Ukraine, the application of the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice and the review of the judicial review of the judicial review of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of jurisdiction and the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the decision. Andrija Pavlovski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying the activities of the Company "Closed Shareholders Association" to unduly restrict consumers of Kiev to access TV channels that violate citizens' rights to receive information. Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General's Office, the High Council of Justice, the High Caliph. [[Litwin, Bondik, Prutnik]] The Commission, the State Executive Service, the State Financial Inspectorate on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of a citizen named Alexander Gorbachev on the need to comply with the court's decision and the terms of the investment agreement by the State Enterprise "Capital Construction Administration of the Kyiv-Svetoshin district" of the Kyiv Region to ensure the right to housing guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Anatolia Yagoferov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the calculation of pensions for persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Eugene Chago to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal to remove legal contradictions and disregard for the rights of individual categories of citizens who were in the immediate vicinity of the Chernobyl AES on 26-27 April 1986 and who carried out their tasks, including the protection of the rights of Nina Melanczyk, a citizen. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for a real solution to the vital problem of the large housing force of Kiev - Trinity by building a subway branch for him. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure, reiterated the MP's request for the threat of life and health of people as a result of training and acrobatic flights by private aircraft of the Biotzerkow Aeroklub "Pilot" over the territory of the Gardeners' Associations "Avangard", "Chemik" and "Heologist" in the city of Bila Church. Irina of the Coastal to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Infrastructure to restore the movement of trains from the city of Kharkiv to the western areas of Ukraine. Sergey Shevchuk to Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Health, Attorney General, Attorney General of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the inadequacy of the establishment of a municipal medical institution "Hospice Hospital" for tuberculosis patients in the village of Mladi Černovetsek. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the head of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters, the head of the Court of Appeal of Poltavian Region on the fair, impartial and legal conduct of proceedings by the Court of Appeal of Poltavian Region. Groups of national deputies to the head of the National Tax Service of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with Ukrainian law enforcement by software providers and natural persons entrepreneurs who carry out their activities under the trade mark Triolan during financial transactions for the purpose of eliminating possible financial devices. [[Jacinyuk, Tomenko, and others. Total 8 deputies]] Sergey Grynevetsky to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the military academy in Odessa. Constantine Bondarev to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service, for the non-compliance of electoral legislation in the formation of electoral committees. Alexander Kemenyash to the head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of large - scale road transport through the area inhabited by Kolčino Mučakov district of Zakarpatsk, which is not resolved locally for 15 years. People’s Deputies’ Groups to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Authorized President of Ukraine for Children’s Rights, the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration on the need for all-rounding assistance for the treatment of a severely ill minor child, Vitaly Staryska, in order to ensure his inalienable natural and inviolable right to health care and timely medical care by authorized public authorities. [[Bondik, Prutnik, Plonikov]] Vladimir Karpuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Bhutan City Council of the Kyiv Region, for the verification of the overriding of official powers by the prosecutor of the city of Irpen, Andriy Shil, and the head of the Bucharest City Council, Anatoly Fedoruk, in connection with the decisions they made to demolish residences on the street of Malinovski in the city of Butch Kyiv district. Vassila Zdovna to the Attorney General of Ukraine to determine the legality of the criminal case against the citizen of Alejandro Strojic. Mustafi Jemilev and Yury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Judicial Commission of Judges, the Minister of Justice for the Investigation of the Inaction of Police and Prosecutor's Office for the Investigation of Fraud Action by a Group of Fraud Workers, targeting a citizen of Dmitr Nikolayev, who is involved in the illegal alienation of a residential building on the Agronomic Street, 25 B in Odessa City, using official documents that have been provided with unreliable information by interested employees of the Municipal Court of OMBTI and RON, the legality of a private notary of Irina Puchova's contract of sale and donation of 28 April 2011, the violation of an oath by the judge of the Suvorov District Court of Odessa In the Middle Sea during the conduct of civilisation, and the prosecution of the judicial proceedings. Constantine Bondarev to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of an examination of the identity of the candidate's property as a candidate of the national MPs. The Gennady of Moscal to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the unlawful actions of officials of the committee of the Dnipropetrov City Council, on the unjustified restriction of the conduct of pre-election agitation, on the urgent use of appropriate measures to address violations of applicable legislation and to bring guilty persons to justice. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Energy Regulation in relation to the non-implementation of the heat-generating enterprises of Suma, the Society with limited responsibility for Sumitplenergo and the Directorate for Coal of the Northern Speech of the Suma Engineering and Production Union of the name Frunze, a separate decision of the local self-government authorities to conduct the recalculations for central heating and hot water services. Edward Zeynlaw to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-application of measures taken by the prosecutor's office to verify the legality of the actions of the senior investigating officer of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to execute the administration of the Ukrainian Pension Fund in Billa Church for the decision of the Biotzerkow Regional Court of Kiev and for the approval of the Kyiv District Court of Appeal to pay an additional pension to the citizens of Olga Kostina for the damage done to her health. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the facts of the discussion in the office of the second President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, with his surroundings and his involvement in the assassination plan for Eugene Szczerbán, and further involved in the implementation of this plan of Russian Keelers. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the annulment of the illegal decisions of the Kyiv City Council relating to the lease of the land for the construction of a gas station at the intersection of Heroi's Space and the avenue of Les Kurbas in Kiev. Sergey Shevchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the provision of a full, objective investigation into the criminal case involving the Deserved Doctor of Ukraine, Omelyan Drigibk. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of compliance with Ukrainian legislation by enterprises - providers of software services and natural persons entrepreneurs carrying out their activities under the trade mark "Triolan", in the course of financial transactions for services, and the use of measures by the Attorney General of Ukraine to eliminate possible financial schemes. [[Puppies, Tomenko and others]] Jury of Lithuania to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Kirovograd Regional Government concerning the collective complaint by the community of the village of Zavalny of the Heivoron district of Kirovograd on the number of cases of abuse by the village head of Valerija Dubinsky and the use of appropriate measures to restore the rights and legitimate interests of the villagers. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the right to rest. Vassila Zdovov to head of the Ivano-Frankow District State Administration regarding the provision of public education facilities for Kosovo, the Verkhovinski, the Svetan region of the Ivano-Frankow district by school buses. Viacheslav Koval and Alexandre Cnervolenko, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the General Directorate of Municipal Property of Kiev, head of the Delhi District in Kiev, State Administration for the illegal alienation of the Inter-Hyrian High School Corps No. 19 in the Podilj district of Kiev. Ostap Semerak to the head of the government of the Public Shareholders Association of the National Stock Exchange Association of BlackMornaftogaz to provide copies of documents and information on the state purchase of the drilling plant. Thus, honourable national MPs, 114 MPs have been asked. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
