ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:21]] There were 424 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy Davimuka Stepan Antonovich, aged 65. Please welcome and wish good health and success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 7th plenary meetings. Eighteen issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 1 law and 1 decree were passed, 9 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 5 bills were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes away from speaking with statements, reports, information, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please provide a list of the names of the national deputies enrolled. Oh, Davemuk Stepan. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u3	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u4	Thank you to the scientist, my friend, and the jeweler Stephen Davimucci. And I want to speak on behalf of the Fatherland faction to look at the situation in the country. Each statesman from the earliest times and to modern history is remembered by the coming generation for one thing: one of the prominent statesmen is remembered for his great military victory, some for his reform, and some for his individual expression. If you do an analogy with popular historian Guy Julius Caesar, who, in particular, came into history by saying, "Come, see victory," said after the victory over the Bosphorus kingdom's ruler Farnak II, in two years of the presidency, and, as we know, the Central Election Commission announced Yanukovich President on February 14, 2010, Viktor Yanuković for Ukraine and the world will go into history by "coming, seeing, planting." So far, the only action of the President is that his main opponent in the presidential election campaign, Julia Timoshenko, is in prison, and this fact is the main topic of discussion in both Ukraine and the world. In theory, however, Viktor Yanukovic has a chance to change his view of himself and Ukraine. To that end, he needs not only to make promises abroad about voting for the decriminalization of 364, 365 articles on the rights of opposition to political activity but also to live up to his promises in Ukraine. In view of this, I looked at the content of yesterday’s Presidential programming statement on his priorities in 2012. It turns out that the chief executives of the President's Administration, or the American consultants, or the Russian polytechnologists, who are said to have massed in the Bank, have identified: the energy market, transport infrastructure, the land market, and so on. Instead, the opposition is convinced that the main priorities for 2012 should be to ensure decent work for citizens rather than for residents of a well - known region; to fight corruption, not political opponents; to improve the quality of life by investing in health rather than budget longevity. [[Let's just mention the last example when DAI employees themselves demand the President to stop the weekly bribes to their bosses.]] It is symbolic that the President did not mention in any way his decree that 2012 is a year of healthy living, which, by the way, is in no way strengthened by the state and local budgets. So I am confident that the situation can only be changed by meeting the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the political opponents of Timoshenko, Lucenko, fighting the elections, not by imprisonment. Only then can Victor Yanukovic remain in Ukrainian history, not stick to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u5	National Deputy Vassutin, Party faction. Please, Leonid Kojara, faction of the Party of the Regions. Andrew Pavlovsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u6	Good morning, distinguished Ukrainian national deputies. In recent times there have been two very important developments in the foreign political life of our nation. Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic participated in two key international forums in Europe and the world, in the Davo Forum and in the 48th Munich Conference on Security Policy. The activity of the head of state in both forums was combined with the topic of energy security. Regrettably, for many years Ukraine did not have a balanced and constructive position in these matters. Our political opponents, while in power, were in extreme positions, or confrontations and gas wars, or the surrender of Ukraine’s basic national interests. As a result, Ukraine lost much of its confidence in itself over the past years, losing first of all its trust in a reliable transit state. Restoring trust is a very difficult matter, the foundation for which was laid by the President in Davos and Munich through the formation of a balanced, pragmatic position and a specific strategy for energy security. The first key point. This strategy is not directed at anyone, Ukraine wants to fully combine its own national interests with the interests of other players in the energy market. That is why the Ukrainian proposal to set up an international consortium for the administration of the domestic gas transport system, with the participation of Russia and the countries of Europe. The other one. In fact, Ukraine presented for the first time a specific plan for the development of its own energy sector in the international arena. European leaders have been informed that Ukraine is already building the largest solar power station on the continent, and at its own expense has begun work on the reconstruction of the first line of the Urengoy-Pomara-Uzhgrad pipeline. Third. The President of Ukraine stressed that many energy security issues can be addressed in the "Ukraine-Russia-European Union" triangle. The relationship in the middle of this triangle, according to the Heads of State, will depend on the transparency, efficiency and technical reliability of the entire energy supply system to Europe. During numerous speeches in Davos and Munich, the President of Ukraine stressed the invariability of two basic principles of foreign policy in Ukraine: this is a continuation of the course for European integration, as well as the development and deepening of partnerships with the Russian Federation, the non-confrontation with that State. So in spite of all the loud statements of opposition, we see in these examples the development and deepening of that balanced multipolar policy that the President of Ukraine has declared at the time of taking power and has persisted for two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u7	Finish up, please. Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction. Sobolev will be performing? Sergey Sobolev, please. Alexander Stoyan will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! The event that took place last week, namely the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the unprecedented resolution that was adopted by the body that unites all European states, I think I cannot help but be considered by our Parliament, because the key issues raised are matters that the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian authorities must address. Regrettably, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe notes, such issues as the dependence of the judiciary, the dependence of the Public Prosecutor's Office on executive power, the absolute lack of justice, have become issues that have not been resolved by Ukraine in recent years. And this situation has become particularly dangerous in the last two years. In fact, what has the existing authorities been so proud of in the last two years? The so-called tax reform that millions of our citizens appreciated and, above all, the entrepreneurs of small businesses that have been destroyed at the root and so-called excellent judicial reform. What assessment did the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe give to judicial reform? Dependence of the judges, the system of justice is completely destroyed. Dependence of an authority such as the Superior Council of Justice, the dependence of the judiciary on the prosecution. All of this has become an illustration in tongues that needs an immediate solution to these questions. But even more necessary, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe warned against the political repression that is taking place in Ukraine. Condemnation of the leaders of the opposition, the use of prosecutors and the judiciary. The resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe makes this clear to political opponents. The need for immediate change in articles 364 and 365, used by the President of Ukraine and his environment to deal with opposition, is a direct responsibility of the Ukrainian Parliament. And the fact that this is being referred to today in the session room is actually the first point that we have to implement as a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. If you add an evaluation of the work of the prosecutor's office, which is actually used as a tool of opposition pressure, if you add an assessment to this in general of the reform of the Ukrainian authorities, which has actually become completely dependent on one person in the state, all of this allows you to appreciate the Ukrainian realities as being non-compliant with the principles of democracy. It is because this resolution has been adopted unanimously by almost all the representatives of the European States that the immediate release of the leaders of the opposition, the immediate order of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office is essential.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u10	This is the first necessary task of our work with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u11	Thank you. The word is John Popescu, a faction of the Party of the Regions. A colleague of Stoyan's is giving him the right to speak. Ruslan Knazevich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u12	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe's report on the functioning of democratic institutions in the member countries of the Council of Europe is a kind of planned stage in the preparation of a large report on the fulfilment of the responsibilities and obligations of the State concerned, which were taken into account when joining the organization. At the same time, this is an effective mechanism to assist States in adapting their national legislation to European standards. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that of the nearly 30 formal introductory commitments that Ukraine made during its accession to the Council of Europe in 1995, only three remain unfulfilled. And the main one is the adoption of the new Criminal Procedure Code. Therefore, in the resolution of 26 January, the President of Ukraine welcomed Parliament's submission as an immediate draft of the new CPC, which had been developed in close cooperation between Ukraine and the Council of Europe. And unlike previous calls today in the Supreme Council, there is the political will of the majority to accept it at this session. The adoption of the new CPC will allow two final commitments in 2012 – the adoption of new Laws on Lawyers and Public Prosecutions. And the question is, why are we optimistic about fulfilling the last three commitments to the Council of Europe? And since the adoption of the previous resolution on Ukraine in October 2012, our country has made a major move towards fulfilling our commitments through the President and the new parliamentary majority. In just one year, laws have been adopted: access to public information, amendments to the Ukrainian Information Act, protection of personal data, free legal assistance, principles of prevention and fighting corruption, and the adoption of a national anti-corruption strategy for 2011-2015, etc. We gave up the imperative mandate, for which in due time the leaders of today’s opposition were speaking when they were in power. We overturned the discriminating orders of the former Minister of Education for independent testing for graduates of schools with teaching languages of national minorities and so on. And today we are ready to take into account our legislation and the national interests of Ukraine to work towards the implementation of the recommendations emanating from the Paris resolution of 26 January 2012. Many issues will be addressed in the context of the adoption of a new CPC. But some of the recommendations require constitutional changes. And in this process, we are counting on reasonableness and constructive opposition behavior. Because our internal problems are solved, not by requiring sanctions to be imposed on our homeland by Brussels or Strasbourg, but by common efforts, the existing problems need to be addressed here, in Ukraine, including in the Supreme Council Hall. Of course, if we're real patriots of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u13	Ruslan Knazevich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Shershun will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u14	In two years of this power, it has become clear to all that it is not only able to fulfill its preelection promises but also to keep the situation in the country. After all, there has been no improvement in life that has already been promised. Power can't hear anyone but itself. They clearly realize that it is impossible for them to stay in power by legal means. And these choices won't win them under any circumstances. So whatever they're trying to do is destroy their political opponents of those who are much more trusted by the people. The active position taken by the opposition forces has become the bone in the throat, which is going to block the breathing for power. Today, the authorities have gone down the path of eliminating the opposition. They shut down the opposition leaders, Timoshenko and Lucenka, and now they're destroying the opposition in places. The last strong confirmation of this was a brutal settlement against the production union "Stalkanat-Silur", whose main shareholder is the leader of the Odessa District Organization of the Front of Change, Vladimir Nemirowski. The methods used to put pressure on him and the other members of the Change Front party in Atonement are openly criminal and presumptuous. Cases that arise are designed and do not withstand any legal criticism. Since May 2011, law enforcement authorities have fabricated seven cases against this person and his company in an empty space. At first, employees were accused of falsified documents for 24,000 dollars in a case against a small contractor. Instead of investigating the counterfeiting of one paper, the Stalkanat company searched and deleted all available documents relating to financial and economic activities. In time, the court’s decision closed the case as an illegal case. But no one has yet returned the property to the company. Instead, the second case against "Stalkant" was filed on charges of fictitious bankruptcy. This time, the company’s real estate was arrested. Next time, "Stalkanat" was charged with bankruptcy, and again, the case was closed by the court. The new wave of political repression began on January 1, the year when a number of new cases were broken. Law - enforcement officials immediately arrived, broke into the fence, entered the territory, and only through the resistance of the labour force to defend the workplaces was strong enthusiasm reflected. Almost simultaneously, the muscle tried to shut down the mouth of the opposition channel "New Odessa." People with guns covered their faces all day terrorized a gang of canals who spoke and told the truth about the actions of the authorities, the events around "Stalkant" and the criminal acts of the Odessa police. We require the Attorney General to intervene immediately, to take personal control of the investigation of the case, and to conduct an objective investigation into the Stalanta raids that last more than a year. We demand an immediate cessation of political repression.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u15	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be Ganushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u16	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues, in Ukraine as an agrarian state, there remains the problem of the entire category of peasants — members of private farming. We receive their requests from all regions of Ukraine for solutions to these problems every day. What's the point? Not always the weather, the soil, the conditions of farming allow the owner of the pies to do farming and profit. In addition, imperfect government policies, a high - interest banking industry, and the difficulties of manufacturing produce hinder farmers from working fully on the ground. Hence, they often rent their pies for almost no price and seek other ways of survival. Logically, in such a situation, peasants have the full right to approach employment centers for employment and unemployment benefits. But it's not that simple in practice. To turn to the cent of the peasants, he had to work on his pie for not less than a year and then prove that his activities were not profitable. It is this criterion that puts many villagers at a dead end of poverty, with no prospects, and no hope for the future. In addition, members of private farms do not have a job history without the formation of an enterprise. This leads to the inability to get a decent pension in old age. Because taxes from his activities to the state budget did not come. According to the law, a peasant has to make a deal with the Pension Fund and pay a certain amount of money each month to the fund from his income. Then there's the internship, and you can count on the pension. But first of all, not all members of private rural farms know about their capabilities, the rights and the necessity of paying taxes. And that's probably the main thing. Secondly, the existing tax mechanisms still constitute significant and sometimes insurmountable burdens on members of private farms. This problem, which is essentially largely regulated by valid legislation, is at the heart of the need to carry out the necessary explanatory work. In my opinion, this state-wide problem can be solved through a comprehensive approach to the organization of full information for peasants on their status, rights and opportunities. That's why I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to develop appropriate legislation on how to explain legislation to members of individual rural farms, their possibilities and their proper relationship with the Pension Fund and employment centres for the purposes of decent pension and other issues. By addressing this problem, we will relive the agricultural sector and to some extent remove the social tension in the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u17	People's Deputy Ganustak. The right to speak is given to him by a fellow woodman. Please, your performance. The next one will be Wonderful.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u18	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe has long not known frosts like this year. For the EU, this weather is anomalous and is seen as an extraordinary situation. In Ukraine, ice cream is common. The MNS stated that there were no extraordinary situations in Ukraine. So 135 dead and more than 2,000 frozen people, this is a state situation. The Emenese assure us that they have done everything possible. There are 3,000 hot spots in the country. I mean, homeless people are to blame because they were on the Internet to find out where these points were, to come in, or at least to watch TV, and to advise the vice-premier who tasted the porridge from the common pot. In January 2009, when the ice cream was no less severe, there were no such human sacrifices. Then Julia Tymoshenko broke the gas stamp imposed on Ukraine by yours, regional and communist masters, a strategic partner. For that, you put her in prison. Because then your expectations of the energy collapse in Ukraine were not met, which you consider to be no more than an industrial territory. Testifying to this is the Kharkiv Accords. What prevented your government from preparing for the winter? Did they think it would pass, that there would be no frosts? Over a hundred people died in the streets. This is a further demonstration of the failure of government social policy. Another quarter of the victims were frozen in their homes near cold batteries. You just don't have to throw it at the local authorities. Maybe the government doesn't know that the engineering infrastructure is completely worn down. What is the cost of her depreciation in the local budgets? What, instead of channelling funds from own income on a work plan to upgrade the municipal infrastructure, do local councils have to fund social programs on delegated powers? All this in the government knows. But the desire to gain more power than the problems of cities and villages, so the budget for business projects where waste is maximum and control is minimal and there is no one at all. Because controllers are all handmade. And independent media are pressuring against corrupting a television picture for the electorate. An example of this is the repression against the newspaper Express. The last boarding house of freedom of speech in Parliament is beheaded so that no one will interfere with the progress of dictatorship in Ukraine. But the pathological nature of today's leadership to control everything that's moving, to centralize power to the Middle Ages absolute begins to come out of it. Local government self - government no longer trusts as professionally incompetent. Which is not surprising, given the specificity of the selection of the personnel. Business flees from a country where property rights are violated by bandits. European society is repugnant to annoying emissaries from the Ukrainian authorities. The Internet community is just mocking, giving the standard-stupid militia raids an elegantly asymmetric counter. Half of the country’s inhabitants hate it because of open anti - Ukrainian humanitarian policies, the other half are disappointed in its ability to improve life, if not today, at least tomorrow. So, gentlemen, most of your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u20	You've shown your complete incompetence. It's your last winter. Go, and all of Ukraine will thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u21	Thank you. People's Deputy Wonders. Yuri Voropeiev? Please. Yuri Voropeiev, faction of regions. I'll be next, Kiriczk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, unlike all those who have spoken before today and the past days, I would like to call on you not at all for political appeal, but for our primary role to be a legislative role. Tomorrow we will have before us a bill called the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the President of Ukraine. He's impressive, he's big. I urge you not to vote unanimously for him now, but I urge you to read it carefully because we are with you to decide on this Code of Criminal Procedure. How does it differ from the current Code of Criminal Procedure and from all existing Codes of Criminal Procedure in all the years of council power in our country? The main difference is that for the first time in this country, if we accept it, this code will in fact allow for a dispute between the prosecution and the defence in our trials. We all speak of the need to protect, to ensure justice in our country, to ensure the proper protection of the accused in our country, to prevent the abuse of citizens in law enforcement agencies during interrogations in our country. So these mechanisms are in place. Please read this for yourself and see for yourself. I would like to draw your attention to the meetings held between the working group and representatives of the Council of Europe held in Strasbourg on 9 November 2011 and here in Kiev on 12 December 2011. [[I'm very grateful to them for the great work they've done.]] This Code of Criminal Procedure has found support, both among our specialists and among foreign professionals. Well, just think, for example, of such a small thing as the defense attorney, for the first time, he has the right to have the right and, like the accused, the suspect, the right to initiate an operational event. Under this code, they will now be called “informal investigations”. Think about ending the entire investigation. I don't see how to reorganize the investigation so quickly in the police because quality is very low there, but they will have to do it because the number of convictions after the entry into force of such a code will increase dramatically, the number of convictions will increase dramatically. I guess that'll be 30 percent. For the first time in our country, many elements of the crime will be bound by the bonds that exist in many countries of the world, which we have never had. I call upon everyone to read carefully and to respond consciously to it, to this Code of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u23	Gregory Kaletnik. The right to speak is given to him by his colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Fomin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished TV listeners, respected colleagues! Ukrainian lands are the nation's main treasury, a great potential that we cannot begin to use properly. The unfavourable agrarian business is the legal and regulatory framework that inhibits the development of the Ukrainian agrarian complex, with the emphasis placed on it by the head of state. The implementation of a new agrarian policy, based on the reform of land relations and the restoration of the village, has been repeated. on the importance of properly shaping the legislative basis of the agricultural land market. That is what President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine said at yesterday's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Deep discussions, discussions and numerous meetings of Ukrainian national deputies, members of the committee, members of the Minagropolitics, officials of the local government and executive authorities provided the opportunity to respond as much as possible to the warnings expressed and to the proposals made by all the subjects of the legislative initiative and other categories of the Ukrainian society. It is appropriate to emphasize the main values of the bill. A problem has been resolved that has created unrest throughout the years — whether Ukrainian land will be sold to foreigners. We have clearly determined in this bill that only Ukrainian citizens should be the subjects of the Ukrainian land market. It's very important, and it's written down, and it goes through all the articles in the bill. Nothing like this has been prescribed in any draft legislation in all previous years. With the aim of financing socio-economic development of villages and villages, the bill provides for payment of 1 per cent of the legal and monetary valuation of land into the budget of the rural council. This was always the case when there were colporteurs. In addition, the bill stipulates that legal persons who rent land should be registered at the location of the land. We estimate that as a result and as a result of the adoption of the land market bill, at least 3 and a half billion dollars should come into the budgets of the territorial communities. Such funds from the budget for the past 10 years have never come to the village. Therefore, the adoption of the Land Market Bill with the proposed standards will seriously contribute to the development of the socio-economic potential of the Ukrainian village, the territorial communities, and will help to increase the employment of those people who now have part-time areas that produce many agricultural products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u25	Pavlovsky. The right to speak is given by Fomin. Faction "BUT" is "Paternity." Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u26	Thank you. Andrew Pavlovski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Fathership”. Respectable compatriots! February 26 is 2 years old as an oligarch, falsifying the President’s election led to the monopoly of Yanukovic da Party of Regions. During this time, they have not fulfilled any social promise. The real purchasing power of Ukrainian citizens has fallen, and everyone can verify it through their own wallet and family budget, and the lives of people, millions of people have deteriorated, but millionaires and billionaires from the Party of Regions have only increased, doubled, tripled their wealth and have little. Look at the agenda for this session, where once again the prevailing majority opposes the laws aimed at adopting land and the remnants of state property, such as the gas transport system, the Crucibles. And to break the sense of national indignation, they propose distracting bills, such as language. At the same time, according to the polls, Ukrainian citizens are most concerned about problems, and these are all leading socio-firms, social organizations show that the issue is the biggest concern: this increase in food prices -- 75 percent, low wages, pensions, scholarships -- 68 percent of the people are worried about and the rise in corruption in government -- more than 50 percent are concerned about people. The question of language is in the ninth, tenth place. That is, with such secondary issues, they distract citizens from the main issue of the need to protect their economic and social rights. I would like to point out that the opposition has passed bills that would at least improve the lives of our citizens. First of all, these are bills that are designed to review the calculation of the subsistence minimum and the definition of the consumer basket, in order to finally, as Janukovic promised two years ago, establish a minimum pension of a thousand two hundred dollars, in order to introduce a moratorium on the compulsory removal of property from underprivileged citizens of debt, because the debts of salaries remain and the debts of citizens take away their apartments. And we're demanding that we finally recover compensation for the lost savings of Ukrainian citizens, because the last government that did this was the government of Yulia Timoshenko, we remember all of July's thousand. Today’s authorities, Yanukovich and Azari, even the grave after the death of the investor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate letters, referrals and assignments, based on the proposals and requirements that have been made during the speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Dear colleagues, let us turn to Wednesday’s February 8 issues. I'm announcing a draft decree on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of state and municipal cultural institutions in rural areas. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Pavel Mikhajlovich Movčan, co-rapporteur – head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. Huh? Let's ask. It's a short-circuited procedure. Can we consider it? They're offering. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, the reporter, the author suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I think we should take this decision and talk less here. And ensure that it is monitored. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:37:21]] For 229 Decision taken. Paul Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We're obviously late with this ten-to-fifty decision, although this topic has not arisen once in the session room, and somehow we haven't come to a positive conclusion. A result that would enable us to stop the spiritual erosion that took place today in almost all of Ukraine. Now you're going to a meeting with your constituents and you're seeing in rural areas what's done in rural cultural institutions that are done in libraries. You can see it's almost a complete ruin. They turned these institutions into shamans, into malls, and that's all the fire of culture, which, ever since the days of the revolution, has been trying to form public buildings, houses that have then moved into the people's houses of culture. Today you see that if we don't take urgent action, we're just going to have a complete desert. That's why I'm asking you to support my draft decision, which is called upon to stop this practice of closing down cultural institutions in urban, rural areas. And the most important point. I'd like you to support this beyond the fact that it's a moratorium by 2015, and it's appropriate, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to move on to a larger term, because this project was being submitted two years ago. It's so late, and so I'm proposing to change it now: by 2017. The other one. I'll get you some Thank you. To have the Cabinet of Ministers analyse the situation of the functioning of state and municipal cultural institutions in rural areas and take steps to stop their unjustified closure. Take urgent steps to change the financing conditions, Mr. Jury, state and municipal cultural institutions in the rural area. And take additional steps to complete the rural library funds with the latest editions of the National Bookstore, including copies published under the National Book of Ukraine. I think we can stop this collapse, and by today's vote, we're going to do a very important thing in this area. Because you know, a village without a club, a village without light, a village without a spiritual fire, and in those problems and unemployment, it's a Ukrainian desert. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u29	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Please, the decision of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u30	Dear voters, of course, those who live in the village. As the practice shows, these are usually not implemented by the sos-making program, and if they're implemented, they're very seminal. Clearly, then, it is necessary to make that decision. Because, literally, as long as we're on the rostrum while we're talking about this, there's now a raid on the copyright administration on Bogdan Hmielnicky Street. These are about 8,000 authors who are associated with the world where their works are printed or performed. Because of this in the village, of course, there's no one to protect these clubs or anything like that. We understand very well that without this simply, as the government doesn't understand it, we can't do without it. A specific example. Two years ago, a movie was filmed on my novel "Craze," a movie called "Victory Day." Nowhere. The state has invested money, budget money, take this money back and restore the Ukrainian movie to the next place. There are no theaters in the villages today. The cinema only reaches the district center, just like our bookstores. This certainly saves at least what is left today. We must make this decision, and we must accept it. I don't think anybody's gonna have a hand, not even a famous hand to "grain trin-grass." This decision must be made. And I think that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this statement. Lemza, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u33	Mikola Tomenko, please. Valérie Kamchatny will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I think that when we talk about this decision, we need to move on more qualitatively and not just recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers take action, analyze it. Today we see what the key moments of what is happening, on the one hand, is the closure of social and humanitarian institutions in rural areas and not just the problem of underfunding them. To my deep conviction, the root of the problem is the following. First. In the last two years, there has been a tendency in the budget process to transfer everything that can be taken into the village and village council to the district, the district budgets. Look, the field office and the infirmary were taken to the village council at the district council, where the district council funded the hospital. There's nothing in the fapach. Go on, talk to the heads of the FAPs, they say that it is better to leave them on the village councils, the village council even though they live in the village and see that support is needed. So normal funding for rural, rural, city council. Another problem. We're talking about land reform. What do experts in the humanitarian field say today? Today, if the renter who keeps the pies had to pay not only a fixed amount to the peasants, but one percent would pay for the village council. This one percent would give us the opportunity to repair the school, to buy into the library of the book, some balance to support the humanitarian sphere. Third position. The library association approached Vladimir Mikhailovich and me. And I'd like the committee, Alexander Tachchenka, to speed it up. Today, the tendering procedure works for libraries. What does that mean? What you buy as a library is not in a publishing business, but in a middleman you buy. Time increases and the amount increases. Of course, they need to be freed from solicitation purchases so that they can buy in the publications. Well, third position. Of course, the budget needs to be reviewed. And it's obvious that experts say that we have a breakup of about 20 percent, that local budgets don't even have the power to delegate. What support for the social and humanitarian sphere can be talked about! Therefore, an ideological decision is correct, and it must be voted for. But the Supreme Council has to go, move on and offer tools not only to save, but to support educational institutions, cultures in the countryside.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u35	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am merely adding one factor that relates to the fact that books issued under government orders cannot be sent to libraries, since the distribution system is destroyed and the mass of references on this subject is publishing books, and unique editions lie, not to those needed. I went to the Cabinet of Ministers three times to change the system so that the publications could send these books to the libraries themselves. No, you can't do that. And for example, in the Institute of Art, unique publications lie in corridors. But they don't have the ability to distribute them in libraries. By the way, I'd like to ask you to prepare another reference to the Cabinet of Ministers on this subject and the committee to study the matter. Please, Valery Kamchatny, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u36	Please give the floor to my colleague for the MP group "Reform for the Future" Kuril Vitali Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u37	Vitali Kurilo, please. Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u38	Honorable National MPs, submitted by the national MP Silent, have the purpose of ending the shameful practice of closing crops in rural areas. Our group will support this bill. I'd like to address the national MPs. If you look at the autobiographical information of most of you, most of the deputies today are from the village. And remember your childhood when you were running to the country club to see the film and when you were running into the country library to pick up and read the book. Today, young people are nowhere to be found in the village. The only remnant is the country club, but he wants to close down the country library today as well. So our task is to stop this practice and preserve both rural and cultural institutions. That's where the libraries come in. Maybe even this bill, it's temporary, it sets up a moratorium. Instead of establishing a moratorium, rules should be laid down when a culture must be established in a village of more than 300 or 500 inhabitants. But for a period of time, at least it is necessary to establish a moratorium so that what we have received from our descendants does not fail. So we're going to support the data and we're going to call on all the deputies to support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u39	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u40	Vladimir Karpuk. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important decision, and of course we will vote in favour. At the same time, I want to say that the so - called reform, whether in culture or in health care, is usually about bringing their numbers, financing them to the economic capacity of the state. And today’s authorities are making an attack on culture large - scale. Both by closing down the country’s cultural institutions and by releasing the directors of the most leading museums in Ukraine, with the aim of regaining power and re-discovering the manuscripts from the libraries, the paintings disappeared and so on. A terrible situation took place at the Kirovograd Music and Dramatic Theatre called Kropivnicki. This is a theater from which the theatre art of Ukraine originates. And to this day, what have the local officials thought of indulging the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture! Upon the conclusion of the contract of a well - deserved artist named Michael Vasilovich Illashenko, the director of the theater is made by a young man who is far away, who has never been in the theater, as she claimed in the collective congregations. It was directed by a children’s dance group. And this person is going to be doing culture and artistic politics in a theater that marked 130 years, which practically gave birth to the art of the theater to Ukraine. At the same time, the position of artistic director is reduced. Who will continue to run such theaters? These are not isolated cases. And now the theater repertoire is changing. Russian - speaking, Russian - speaking authors are on the scene. The achievements of Ukrainian theatre art that have been celebrated until now are forgotten. If this continues in our culture, in time we will have no Ukrainian culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u41	Yuri Litwin, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u42	The faction of the People's Party. I'd like to give it to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u43	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u44	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! It is a great pleasure to have the impression that there is a consolidated position of all national deputies to assess the role of cultural institutions in rural areas. Any economist who speaks of the difference between a civilized state and a civilized country and a less civilized country usually says about 3 things: they are absolute GDP, they are GDP per capita and labour productivity. [[gross domestic product]] In fact, if it's not a professional economist, the humanitarian community will look at this problem and the person who deals with and cares about local self-government, the functioning of local authorities, the functioning of local communities, understands very well that the difference between the developed state and the less developed state is whether there is a difference and how important it is in the level of social infrastructure in the city, in megapolis and in rural areas. For developed countries, social infrastructure in rural areas is practically at its own level, according to how many of them per population correspond to the averages in urban areas of subordination, of regional significance. [[Culture, education]] In Ukraine, unfortunately, this imbalance has not been 1 year, not 2 years, but for many years. It's destroyed, it's gone. And that's why the people's deputies, and you have to thank the author of Michael Silent's legislative initiative, really thank you, raised questions of state or state. On the other hand, I would like to emphasize and support, and confirm the opinion of Mikola Tomenka that the issue is not so in lockdown. Do you understand? You can't close them, but if they're empty, if they're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u45	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u46	If they don't burn, if the library funds aren't filled in, it's propaganda, it's just not serious. Therefore, it is correctly stated in the text that it should not only be an unreasonable closure but rather a change in the terms and conditions of funding. I think it's a key benefit in this decision. France of the National Party unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u47	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u48	And I'm not going to thank anyone for the faction of the Communist Party. Because the Soviet authorities have built, and in 20 years you've been in power destroying, destroying and destroying schools, kindergartens, palaces of culture, libraries, and now you're crying. I want to tell you about what's been going on since 1991 since the year you've been in power, 900 libraries closed, 500 palaces of culture, and what's going on today is going on without the roof, without the heat without the literature, in the mud, and people are going behind the book, to sing the Ukrainian song, I have a question for the author: "Why before 1915? And why is it not the law of Ukraine to ban in the end?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u49	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u50	Destroy and close schools and kindergartens and palaces of culture and libraries?" This is a sentence for all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u51	Ivan Popescu, please, factions of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u52	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that, despite the fact that one of the colleagues from the rostrum said that nowhere, nothing works, I would like to cite such examples that, despite the lack of funds, I have been in the district, I have recently been there, as well as orchestras, and dance groups, there are folk choirs, and this is despite the cold, and despite the lack of money. I would like to take this opportunity to thank cultural workers such as representatives of the House of Culture of the village.The Gerzaev region, Kosticena Novoselicki, Lower Petrovci Strožinecki, Karapčiv Deepocci region and many others who are working today. Of course, the Party of the Regions will support the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of public and community cultural institutions in the countryside, because this is part of our electoral and political agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the draft decision as a basis and as a whole as a determination. Well, let's check our readiness, I'll put it to a vote, but this requires the Rules to be accepted as a basis, and then, if there's support and there's no warning, then finally, yes, we'll put the vote to a vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Ordinance on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of state and municipal cultural institutions in rural areas. [[Registration number 7161]] Please vote. [[10:56:31]] For 383 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal is to accept it as a whole. Is there no objection? None. In view of your unanimity support, I am voting on the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of state and municipal cultural institutions in rural areas. Please vote. [[10:57:14]] For 383 I'll take the order. Thank you. The factions. Region Party – 176, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 89, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 37, communism – 23, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, People's Party – 20, "Afterfaction" – 18. I'm announcing a draft decree on the 120th anniversary of the birth of scientist Michael Krawczuk. The author suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:58:08]] For 227 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Pavel Mikhailovich Movchan. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u54	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! September 27 is 120 years old this year from the birth of the world-renowned Ukrainian mathematician, the Academy of Sciences of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, a member of the mathematical societies of France, Germany, Italy. Taking into account Michael Krawczuk's outstanding personal contribution to the development of mathematics, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to commemorate at the national level 120th anniversary of the birth of scientist Michael Krawczuk. Recommend the Cabinet of Ministers within a two-week period from the date of this decision to form an organizational committee to prepare arrangements to mark the 120th anniversary of Michael Krawczuk's birth. In a two-week period after the establishment of the Organising Committee, develop and approve a plan of action to mark the 120th anniversary. Recommend to the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine to organize thematic television and radio broadcasts dedicated to the life and activities of Michael Krawczuk and to provide media coverage in connection with the 120th anniversary of the birth of a prominent Ukrainian figure. What can I say about this person? This is, of course, the genius who gave us the Volin soil. I am very grateful to Adam Ivanovich, who then supported the inclusion in the order of the day’s decree. Therefore, I would not like to highlight the tragic events that involved not only the life of this person but also the entire Ukrainian intelligence. The man who was world famous and the formulas of which to this day are applied by all the mathematicians of the world, his theory, his design, his work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u55	Since you have remembered me, continue. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u56	Thank you. And that's why I think it's appropriate to get our public attention, and this figure was destroyed, which is a lot of Ukrainian intelligence in 1937. And this is also related to the date of the seventy - fiveth anniversary of the massive repression of Ukrainian intelligence in Sandarmoza, but this is a separate subject and a separate decision. I would like to and urge you to support this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u57	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Yavorowski
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u58	Honorable colleagues, respected Ukrainian scientists. Michael Krawchuk's name is made of mist, it's made of non-existence, because, indeed, this brilliant man, a brilliant mathematician, who is known by the entire mathematical world, who was, by the way, I want to point out, a teacher of the Queen and Queens, thanks to him, he kept thanking him, as a disciple who gave this to the King, means the way from earth to space. This man's tragic fate, which is why he was in the dead. Because the man who opened up completely new pages in mathematics was sentenced to twenty years, he was in Siberia, he was in forestry. But in the evenings, you can imagine, he was still doing math. And most of all, I'm not going to get into these subtleties, because I don't know them, I'm not a mathematician. Who in general discovered a completely new, yet another mathematical page and passed it on, nowhere else could he transfer it, he handed it over to the prison administration. And this discovery is gone once and for all. This person is very interesting to us, to our contemporaries, because in the early 1930s he was offered to move to Paris and do mathematics, to Canada. In fact, all the great European countries offered him teaching, research. He didn't leave Ukraine, and, of course, he was convicted in 38. Our job today is to bring this person back into our spiritual circle, not just for scientists, but for the entire Ukrainian society. I think that by adopting this determination today, we will take a step toward bringing this person back into our spiritual circle. I believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u59	Shall we vote? On behalf of those who wish to speak, I also invite you to support this decision. And Karpuk says he wants to speak, and so does the others. Let's vote with friendship and support. I'm voting for a ruling on the total 120th anniversary of the birth of scientist Michael Krawczuk, the famous Wolinian. [[Registration number 9463]] Please vote. [[11:04:02]] For 358 Thank you. It's been decided. We're looking at the draft Order marking the 290th anniversary of Gregory Skovorody's birth. [[Registration number of Bill 9605]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u60	Adam Ivanovich, I am the author and I have the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u61	You are right, but the Supreme Council is also right. [[11:04:34]] For 219 A supported offer needs 150 votes. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not breaking the rules. Read the Rules. Four minutes as the author and the head reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u62	A figure like Cravorod, who does not deserve us to be on the full agenda today, Parliament has discussed this decision. If you don't need it, you don't need it. God be with him. I don't care about the cleavage. I think it would have to be of no concern to you. I think that a nation that has a spiritual dimension like Gregory Skovoroda must have a wonderful future. And he'll have to. Because the nation should be proud of people like Gregory Skovorod. This is really an amazing philosopher, our first and perhaps the greatest Ukrainian national philosopher to date, who has received a colossal education at the Kyiv-Magilian Academy. Which for the first time, as it were, was a challenge to power, a challenge even to some degree of society, and which became a traveling philosopher. I think today many who are sitting in this room, I repeat, many who are in this room and who are sitting in the higher offices, would have to write as a slogan to themselves in the office on the table the phrase Gregory Skovorda: "Don't teach an apple to bear apples, you'd better cut off the pigs from them." If we were to drive these pigs away from this Ukrainian apple, it would have been much better by now, and it would have been much more fruitful. Sadly, though, it is today that pigs dictate how they should behave. Gregory Skovorod is the author of many well-known works. They do know each other. A person who has spent her entire life among the people. I'm convinced that today our attention, the attention of our authority, not just this one, but all of the Ukrainian authorities over the past 20 years, is too small for this figure. Maybe a lot in this regard is being done by our Kiev-Mogilian Academy, and we're grateful for that. But the very monuments of Scovorod will not happen. He needs to be taught, he needs to know. Another phrase I'd like to recall here from this rostrum: "Every mouth is a spoon dry," is it to you, the distinguished representatives of most people today, yes, "Who lives there without sin?" Because of this, I am convinced that we must commemorate this marvelous anniversary, once again, a man, to deliver his work necessarily, to draw the attention of society to him. Because usually philosophers. One wise man said, "The philosophers are the people looking for keys looking for locks, not lock keys." Gregory Skovoroda is an extremely spiritual height, a height in our Ukrainian history, in our Ukrainian spirituality. I think we should reach out to him, grow up to him with both intelligence and national memory and patriotism. I'm sure there won't be any people who won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u63	Thank you. You've got a minute left. Yes, please sign up for the performance. Yes, please, Kurilo. Get ready for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u64	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! The MP's Reform for the Future will support the draft of this decision. Gregory Skovoroda is indeed an outstanding person in the history of not only the Ukrainian people, but also in the history of all mankind and in particular in the history of Eastern Slovenia. The Chinese have Confucius. And if you look at it, the Chinese have really turned their Confucius into a person who is building the whole ideology of today's China. Confucianism has taken over the world. In Ukraine, the historical figure is Gregory Skovorod. We know about Scorod, we study somewhere in schools, but we don't pay attention to this figure as much as we need to. Because Scovoroda is, in fact, one of the first philosophers of Eastern Europe, one of the first philosophers of Slovenia and Ukraine to lay the foundations of Ukrainian philosophy. So I'm addressing all the deputies, I'm addressing all the fellow citizens, I'm talking to the teachers, I'm talking to the teachers, I'm talking about Gregory Skovoroda taking a decent place in the history of our country. Gregory Skovorrod must take a decent place in the philosophy of Ukrainian philosophy, in the development of philosophy, in the development of Ukrainian ideology. So I ask everyone to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u65	Mikhailo Kosov. Get Carpuku ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u66	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. This is literally a few days ago, on TV TV, a professor from Kharkiv Uskalov, who was actually talking about this figure of Gregory's pans in the sense that we actually know, and it's like we're studying at school. But we don't have what a colleague of the previous speaker is talking about, we don't have a complex system of philosophical values that have to do with this, no doubt, genius. Because we can, apart from the known aphorisms, and there are countless such aphorisms, almost all of Scovorda's heritage is given on the wings of expressions that are essentially epochal. We can also assign whole systems. For example, the system of perception of the world through the concepts of Christian religion, the notion of man in the universe, the notion of man in society, and what Skovorroda called "a related work." So it was good that it wasn't just a Jubilee date. It would be good if we could re-publish the creation of the Scoundrel. Because what seemed to be a two-cell has passed, I know, almost 30 years and the present generation is gone. But at the same time, it would be good to involve our scientific circles, which would actually be this system of philosophical values associated with Scorod, to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u67	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u68	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We will certainly support this decision because Gregory Skovoroda is a person who has influenced the formation of Ukrainian thinking, systems of Ukrainian values, Christian values for many prominent people of Ukraine. It is enough to read the journals of Olesia Terentiyovich Potter to understand how high a person is and how much he has shaped the system of values in others. But I want to set another example as they mark their worthy sons in other lands. February 6 was 200 years old from the birth of Charles Dickens. And this year, 2012 was announced by Dickens in the United Kingdom. The celebration began with the participation of members of the royal family and the most. The people who hold the largest positions in this country. As we observe the Jubilee, we see it. It's at least a coin issue, it's a measure, usually at the place of birth of one person or another. This was the case with the Jubilee of the Forest of Ukraine, and so were the Jubilee of other people. So if we just do this for a branch, in order to make a decision, and we don't really bring the values of these personalities to Ukraine, to the world, we don't do anything good, I don't think we're going to do. Now we need to think about how to celebrate the 200th birthday of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk in 2014. Now we need to make the right decisions and not just take the late ones, but prepare for these remarkable dates, and I think that at least Gregory Scovorda's personality is the person who can unite both East and West, because his philosophy, his values are close to every Ukrainian, if he is really Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, the impression is that Scovoroda will vote in October. Well, please, Chechetov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, the President of the country spoke from this rostrum and called upon all of us to reject corporate interests and unite in the name of Ukraine. And I am glad that this appeal, despite the narrow group of provokers who tried not to allow the President to speak and detest the country in the eyes of the international public and the ambassadors who were, this appeal of the President has been heard! You see, it's an unprecedented event! Today, the opposition introduces all the laws that unite the 300-vote room. I therefore propose to vote in favour of this law and in favour of the following. And in favour of these laws, we therefore reaffirm that the call of President Viktor Yanukovic for unification, for consolidation of efforts, for political stability has been heard. Except for a narrow group of provokers who tried to disrupt the President's statement yesterday. I propose a vote. In a vote, we vote, I repeat, for the President's call for an alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u71	Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u72	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Respectful colleagues apparently deserve such an uplift, cheering, and so forth in the session room. There's just, you know, danger. When we're celebrating such remarkable figures, sometimes it just turns into a baccanine. And it ends here in Kiev, or maybe in some district centers, where culture, well, let's say, on the surface, round tables and conferences. Where people who know each other well at all other round tables are convinced that one person is big and everything else. I would very much like to have one word, one mission, one function, in this determination and in the implementation of this regulation. It's popularization. The popularization of this person among those in high school today is among those who may still be attending older groups of kindergartens. Then it will be of benefit. And to tell each other that he's a big person, you know, we do that a lot. And I also want to say that they were talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u73	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u74	The philosophical heritage of Scovoroda. Scoroda was always speaking, and I read this two volumes, which Kossov said he was always speaking out against the cost. In his worldwide perception, he was opposed to inferiority. I'd like us to expand our political activity today and think that Ukrainians and Ukraine can identify themselves, and they can go their own way and not be less valuable, and I'm only looking at external factors all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u75	Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u76	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. On behalf of Poltavščina, where Skovrod was born, and on behalf of the Kharkivs, where he rested his soul, I am truly grateful for understanding the problem. And I would like to draw attention to the shrine of celebration, where we can go, where he was born, and where he was buried. So I'm talking to the author of this decision, and I'd like to propose a presentation, and I'm saying for the stenographer. After the words "recommend the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" the following text. "A two-week period from the date of this decision to form an organizational committee for the preparation and implementation of measures to mark at the national level 290 years from the date of the birth of Gregory Skovorda, having decided on the issue of financial and material security. In particular: building a museum in the death of the Black Poltava region, starting with the creation of the historical and cultural reserve of the Fatherland Grigory Skovorody.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u77	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u78	and the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the National Museum of Schrorod in the forces of Skovorodinovka Zoločov district of Kharkiv region. But complete the order with another paragraph of the next sentence. "Recommend to the district and district public administrations of the Poltava and Kharkiv regions to develop and submit for approval a programme for the preparation and implementation of measures to mark the 290th anniversary of Skovorda's birth, providing funds for their implementation." I thank all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u79	Question completed. I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, once again, in October 2012, neither Skovrod nor his children nor his great - grandchildren will vote. You will vote, but Skovorod will not help your vote. If there were doubts that the decision was not coming through, it would have to be proved. Please, School, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u80	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I understand the irony, Adam Ivanovich. I also want this to be voted on quickly. I just wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u81	Take it off, please. I'm sorry, the Cossacks spoke out of your faction. I'm voting on the draft decree to mark the 290th anniversary of Gregory Skovorody's birth as the basis. Please vote. [[11:20:59]] For 376 Now, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the overall proposals made by Gordienko. Please, Yavorowski. microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I believe, and our committee believes that the amendment to this decree is very appropriate. And who knows it, even if only this amendment is made, and it will be good because we know how the authorities feel about it. By the way, the committee asked us to give us an answer, which is what our decisions are, which is not. It's been two months, I don't have that answer. That's why the amendment is correct, and let's support it and vote for it to create this memorial that Deputy Gordienko said about and to either repair something there in the Motherland, Gregory Skovorda. He's worth it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, so let's now vote in general with additions to the second point that Gordienko was talking about, with 4 points coming up, and the 4th is going to be 5th, 5th, 6th, 7th, and so on. I'm putting these motions on the vote as a whole. [[11:22:36]] For 375 I'll take the order. We're looking at the draft decree marking the 125th anniversary of Les Kurbass. [[Registration number of Bill 9619]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:23:08]] For 228 Offer supported. Please, Paul Mikhailovich is the author of the initiative. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The amazing cluster of brilliant humans appeared in Ukraine at the end of the 19th century. Les Kurbas is a name that is known today in the theatrical world society and is generally known by all who are interested in dramaturgy and who are interested in theatre. It's also amazing because the person who actually made the breakthrough in that theater, which was of a humminous nature, was such an ethno-folklore theater in Ukraine, which actually allowed the then royal authority and nothing else. And only with the revolutionary transformations that have taken place, is this, Adam Ivanovich, I want to let you go, this figure that has absorbed a great European experience, a man born in the city of Sambora, which was raised in two universities, including Vienna, which knew 8 languages, which had an inadequacy in the brush, which had an absolute hearing in a song that saw the theater not as a business act, but a simultaneous unfolding on the surface of a few simultaneous movements. It's a kind of application of the principle of the Ukrainian helicopter, which was transformed by its brilliant imagination and gave the theater viewer the opportunity to learn what's called the "wild theater," the miracle of the new theater. It was actually the first to revolutionize the whole scene: it wasn't just moving, it was moving a few planes. It's a win-win. He joined the famous Berlin Theatre in Kharkiv, the new capital of Ukraine, where he moved to the invitation of the Ukrainian Theatre Society.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u85	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u86	After performing only a few plays, he had masterful plans, and he actually formed a new Ukrainian playwright. He was, like many other Ukrainian intellectuals, repressed and shot in Sandarmokh. And that's why I'd like to ask you, first of all, to support the 125th anniversary of it; second of all, to ask Yuri Petrovich Bogicki, who is here, to give appropriate instructions to restore his performances: both "Maclena Grass" and "The People's Malachi" and "The Pathetic Sonata," so that Ukrainian theaters start publishing it this year. And the Kurbass Center to prepare the corresponding academic editions of the works of Kurbass. This is true, for example, because I did not reflect it in the determination, and I would like it to be fixed today. Thank you for your attention. And I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u87	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Please, I announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u88	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, dear voters, I just want to remind you of what Paul Movchan said here, add that the theater in Ukrainian history, in the form of Ukrainian spirituality, in the preservation of this spirituality, played a special role. It is even difficult for me to say which nation next to me can play the role of the theater in its spiritual life. Although it was quite late for us and his Fatherland is the Hattery of Hope in Kirovgrad, but the theater played an amazing, amazing, simple role. However, it was a folk folklore theater, our parishes, which it was founded, by the way, by the way, here today Karpuk has already talked about what's happening with the theater, the theater right in Kirovograd district, which is going to decapitate, to throw absolutely out of the theater the talented man who revived this theater, and instead to put up his, give me a word, Schvonder, who's going to just distribute the money that's been taken to repair this theater, is such a signal from today. But what I'd like to say is that Les Kurbas opened a page of the new modern Ukrainian theater, not to contradict the classical theater, but to his development of this theater. It was an amazing man who, in fact, talked about the Ukrainian theater, the modern theater, I confirm, the whole world at that time. The theater had, "Berezil" had its author, had its author a play – it was Mikola Kulish. Without him, the theater would not have happened either. Kurbas experimented, experimented with great talent, bringing together all the best actors in Ukraine. And it's quite clear that he had a Stalinary waiting for him at the end of the 1930s, and this incredibly harmonious patriotic man was arrested. From the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u89	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u90	First he was sent to the construction of the Bilomorcanal and then put into the Siberian taiga and after the second trial he was shot in this tragically famous Sandarmoz. It is our duty to remember this talented man, the patriotic man, to accept this decree today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u91	Yes, shall we vote? I'll put it to a vote. Yuri Anatolyovich, I'll give it to you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u92	I need it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u93	I need it now. Only about Kurbas. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please, Carmazin, in my right hand. Two minutes. Microphone, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak and justify how talented and brilliant Alexander-Zenon Stepanovich Kurbas was, because obviously he hears us, and should be called by his parents, as he was called: Alexander-Zenon Stepanovich. I won't even remind you that in 1991, the Ukrainian Government revoked an illegal decree of 1933 by the Council of People's Commissioners of the USSR depriving Kurbas of the title of National Artist of the U.S.R.R. That's how he stayed. I just wanted to remind you that we're going to celebrate the 125th anniversary of February 25. If we follow this decision, where it is recommended to create an orgcommittee within two weeks of the date of adoption and so forth, it will be a birthday. I mean, we're late. Because of this, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, I would like to ask you to consider deleting the term, the two-week term, and recommending to the government immediately, from the date of the adoption of this decree, this "two-week term", the word delete, and so around the text. Because we have to do this right now, right now, because we're just not going to make it to 25th. This project was introduced on December 20, apparently thought it was earlier. That's why we can't make it. That's why I asked for words, Adam Ivanovich, to make this little correction. Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote by agreeing with Yuri Anatolyovich to really take where the two-week term is, since it is February 25. With such an amendment, I am proposing to the vote that the whole decision should be taken to mark the 125th anniversary of Les Kurbass' birth. [[Registration number of Bill 9619]] Please vote. [[11:32:39]] For 376 Thank you. The decree was adopted as a whole with the amendment of Carmazin. We are considering a draft Decree on some issues of raising the minimum level of pension insurance for Ukrainian citizens. [[Bill 8697 registration number]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:33:19]] For 229 Supported. Reporting to the National MP, Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u96	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I invite you to take note of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the improvement of the minimum level of pensions for citizens. The aim of the decision is to increase the minimum pensions, as it is impossible for the pensioner to live on the money currently allocated by the budget. On the weekends, I was on the Life Market, and I was approached by a retired grandmother who asked one question: How can I live on a thousand bracelets today? There's enough on the bread, and the oil is hard. And this is the situation for 8.5 million Ukrainians today, with 8.5 million pensioners who receive a pension within a thousand bracelets. Of these thousands of bracelets, some 400 bracelets have to be paid for fares, for travel, for minimum living conditions, and, more importantly, for today, for those terrible winter conditions where each pensioner is forced to additionally melt his own apartments. 300 bracelets of pensioners spend a month on medicine and 300 bracelets per month on a person’s life. Can you live on ten bracelets a day today? I'm sure it's impossible. Therefore, I believe that the level of inflation declared by the Government over the past year by 4.6 per cent is a complete fiction. Food prices have increased in some cases. In selected regions, housing and utility tariffs rose by 40 per cent. And people's pensions and salaries are not indexed or recalculated. And I think it's global manipulation. We therefore consider it necessary to revise the minimum pension rate and to convert it by a minimum of 50 per cent for this year. We understand they'll tell us there's no money in the budget. But for the second year in a row, the economy is being destroyed, and businesses are being destroyed. And if the government continues to bury the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u97	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u98	If they continue to bury the economy and destroy social guarantees, our pensioners will never receive a just pension. The sources from where to get the money, I said in this order. And I also ask the MPs, by 300 votes, to support this decision and to show that we are not only thinking about the past, but we are thinking about today and we are thinking about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u99	And thank you. The head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Mikola Georgievich Kulczynski, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons considered a draft of the Royal Decree of the Supreme Council submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine on some of the issues of raising the minimum level of pension insurance for Ukrainian citizens at its meeting on December 1, 2011. As Mrs. Royal said, the draft decree proposes a number of measures aimed at improving material security for the most vulnerable groups. This is a 50 - percent increase in the cost of living for those who have lost their jobs. Increases in pensions, pensions and pensions from the Ukrainian Pension Fund Who forgot, I remind you, the minimum pension should be equal to the subsistence minimum. Thus, if a 50 - percent increase is made, the minimum pensions will rise by 50 percent. The committee does not object to the legislative initiative of the National MP of Ukraine. At the same time, a number of warnings have been expressed during the consideration of this issue, which will need to be further developed. In particular, the funds provided for in the National Budget of Ukraine as a grant to the Pension Fund of Ukraine for pensions, pensions and pensions granted under various pension schemes cannot be used for the payment of increased pensions. Because these funds are used only for payments made under the law at the expense of the state budget. These are allowances, pensions, including veterans of war, children of war, and Chernobyl. So the draft regulation on the source of the increase in the selected grant can only be used to increase these payments. The cost of meeting the budget deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund should be foreseen in another programme to cover the deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund's pension payments. The Committee on Social Policy and Work recommends a project to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u101	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u102	Let me finish. This highlights the inadequacy of many provisions of the draft decree in the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the draft decision to take the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u103	It's just that I have something else written. Oh, I'm sorry, this is the Social Policy Committee. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Kosov. He's handing it over to Pavlovsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u104	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear fellow countrymen, national deputies, I believe that we must make a stated decision to improve the pension security of our citizens. Because what the current authorities have done with the pensioner, otherwise as a pension genocide, their reform cannot be called. As a result of their retirement genocide, each woman was raised by five years of age, and all Ukrainians were promoted by the minimum period of service required for the pension to receive a modest pension of 10 years. So every Ukrainian citizen will have to work 10 years more to get a pension. But also those pensions, I'd like to correct the previous reporter that people are now receiving, the minimum pension now in the size of 822 bracelets gets more than 7 million of our citizens. Our senior pensioners, such as Azarov, Janukovic, would try to live a month on 822 bracelets. We'd look at them. At least a month as an experiment. We propose that we return to Janukovitch's promise of the most famous and set a minimum pension of 1,200 dollars, as he promised before the presidential election, before the presidential election. And there's money for that. As this decree states, it is possible to cut spending 50 percent on the President, his administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, and other bureaucrats. It is possible not to build roads at the expense of the State to Mezigiriya; it is possible not to build helicopters for billions of dollars for the same Yanukovich. You can save on the Euro, which was spent 100 billion on the government budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u105	Yes, Grivkowski. No, it's not. Please, Kovalevska Julia. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u106	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national deputy Jaroslav Sukh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u107	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I will not even say what this decree refers to in 2011 and commits Kabmen to do anything on July 1, 2011. Absurd! That's what it says. The other one. I'm not going to talk about moral law. Whether he has the moral right to submit the political power that has blocked all our laws in due time. I came to the rostrum because I liked the explanatory note, the fine reasoning. As a result of the 2009 criminal, anti-national gas agreement, in 2010, the first half of 2011 saw a significant increase in food prices, housing services and the like. Of course, such a conclusion must be accepted. It's about the decision. Colleagues, well, it's not the first time I've been on this rostrum to refer to those who write laws on social issues. Work on yourself! Read more. In Ukraine, five types of pensions Four are funded from the budget. The fifth species, after reaching its age, is funded jointly by the Pension Fund and the budget. What is involved in this decision? What's to increase? There's no such thing as a minimum age pension right now. We canceled it a long time ago! And there's a living minimum. What are you talking about? And if you want to write a good bill, come to the committee meeting. We invited the author, Royal. She wasn't on the committee. We'd like to break it down and explain what it's about. What is the size of the pension according to the subsistence minimum, and what are the allowances, the ones that are legally paid out of the budget. They're paid to the disabled, they're paid to the children of war, they're paid to the categories of benefits we pay. By the way, for you to know, MPs, learn to count, especially you, reverend, learn to calculate your pension! The pension consists not only of years and wages but also of the budget supplement. Therefore, this decision must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u109	Karmazin doesn't want to speak, he gives the word Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u110	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues! In the country, it's like a pension reform. Now, look what came out of this pension reform. The deficit, and I call this whole figure a deficit, although they're nominally divided there, what's missing from the Pension Fund's budget is 58 billion dollars, under the budget this year. I mean, exactly as it was in the past. Here's the first result of pension reform: a hole in the budget. The second result is the pension, the very size of the pension. The actual cost of living is at least one, and the size of the pension, which is based on the size of the subsistence minimum for the disabled, is much lower. For example. July of last year, a long time ago. The actual subsistence minimum is 1,134 bracelets, six months ago. And it's not real, because it's real, up to 4,000 dollars, at the expense of independent unions. And by the end of this year, the living minimum will be 1,134 bracelets, and in July it will be 1180. I mean, even those figures that are planned after this year are less than the actual subsistence minimum that took place six months ago. Where are all these tax laws for the rich? Where are all the offshors that Tihypco promised? Where is this legalization of wages? Where is the fight against pay in envelopes and the creation of conditions for people so that they can receive a large - scale salary without envelopes? There's no work to do. What's going to happen? And it's going to be from the government for the election: what they stole will be taken and distributed to people in October, November, September, and they'll say, look at what kind of charity we are. This will be a pension reform this year. Therefore, all decisions directed at increasing pensions must be made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u111	Asshole, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u112	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The United Left and Village Party. The fact is that I will personally vote in favour of this decree, knowing very well that it is indeed imperfect, it is lost in time, because the operation of this decree should start in 2011. But we all understand today and, by the way, it's in the context of our President's speech yesterday that one of our nation's woes is poverty and poverty must be fought. So, frankly, today it would be possible to vote in favour of this decree as a signal to the government that something should be done about it, because, indeed, the people today are surviving. And we understand that pension reform without taking any further steps, if we don't make it pay the oligarchs, the budget fill out, we won't be able to fill the budget on account of small and medium-sized businesses. If we don't start fighting offshoring zones, there will be no success. And it must be understood that the State must take steps. The Queen proposes such steps. So I propose to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u113	Zybenko, one minute, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u114	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, I have asked for the floor not so much to support the draft decree because it is hopelessly outdated, it is bound to the 2011 budget. I went out to this rostrum, and the faction authorized me to express support for the very idea of increasing the minimum pension. What do I mean? Very often, employers operate at an average pension of just over a thousand dollars. And you know, the average pension is like the average hospital temperature, one's cold, and the other's 40. We support the idea of increasing the minimum pension and we see two real mechanisms. The first real mechanism is to raise the subsistence minimum for the citizens who have lost their jobs, and it is indeed lagging behind the subsistence minimum for the workers extremely much, up to 250 gravel. I think it's insane. And the second mechanism is to upgrade the salary for the recalculation of pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u115	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u116	This mechanism has recently been used to replace the average wage of 306 by 928. We have to take the next step. So I want to go to the first Deputy Minister of Social Policy, who is present in the government's bed, and ask the Pension Fund, Minfin, to make the pension up to date, pay for the pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u117	Question completed. Let's be clear. In view of the fact that the speakers here have noted the problem that the decision is not about the future, but about the past, I will put it first, because it is 2011 that is no longer there, so I will first make a proposal for a decision on the basis, and then, if we take the basis, we will specify the dates and figures. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:50:32]] For a hundred and The decision is not supported. The factions. The party of the regions – not voted, BUT – 85, Our Ukraine – 36, Communists – 24, Reforms – 1, The People's Party – did not vote, "Afterfaction" – 4. Yes, dear fellows, we are considering the bills that the Conciliation Council decided to include today, although the profile committee has not been able to consider them properly. But as we've been looking at them, I think we'll listen to the profile committee's opinion and be determined. We are considering a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to harmonise national criminal legislation with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. [[Registration number 9759]] Yes, the author of the legislative initiative is Viktor Dmitrovich Schwetz. Victor Dmitrovitch, can we do this on short notice? Suggests a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:52:03]] For 223 Supported. Please, Victor Dmitrovich. I give you four minutes, you both from yourself, and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u118	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At the beginning of October, we had a thorough discussion in this room about reforming criminal legislation. As a result, the Parliament decided to humanize economic crimes without touching on the crime in the field of service, although, as you recall, the leaders of the pervasive factions convinced us that the final adoption of decisions on the humanitarianization of economic crimes would be a matter for change. And it seems to us that this was a mistake, because there were reasons for it, primarily of a legal nature. And that's why the profile committee then proposed to amend article 365 of the Criminal Code. I'm sorry to say this, but the obstacle, my dear friends, to Ukraine's European integration is the most difficult definition of article 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. There is a worldwide principle: Officials should be criminally responsible only if their actions in making administrative decisions show signs of corruption, that is, if he personally benefited from it, he had a personal interest. In any case, an official's administrative decision is not criminally liable, it's a political decision. Here in this room, in 2006, the Supreme Council ratified the UN Convention against Corruption. All over the world, Ukraine said, "Yes, we're a civilized country struggling with this disgraceful phenomenon." But we did not even take the first step: we did not harmonize our legislation with international standards. What kind of fight against corruption can we discuss? For the past six months, we say from this rostrum that article 365 needs to be changed, for this is our responsibility to the international community that Ukraine has assumed. We can't be heard here. But on January 26, this year, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted an unprecedented hard resolution. The main claims of the Council of Europe were that articles 364 and 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine were too broad to apply and, in fact, allow the post facto criminalization of normal political decisions. This is contrary to the principles of the rule of law and is unacceptable. The Assembly therefore urges the Ukrainian authorities to amend the Criminal Code immediately in accordance with the Council of Europe standards. As chairman of the committee, I'm going to report that this bill is actually Bill 9533, which was included in it. was not included in the order of the last session. According to article 22 of the Rules, if the proposal is not included in the agenda, it is the proposal for inclusion, not the bill itself, that is rejected. So we have every legitimate reason to say that Bill 9533 is fully in line with the bill that we are currently considering. Therefore, I have a legal basis to refer to the fact that the Committee, in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, has considered a bill that is entirely similar to the one currently being considered and adopted: recommending that the Supreme Council approve this bill in the first reading on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u119	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please sign up. Vladimir Oliynik. Get ready, Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the legal aspect of these changes without politicizing the subject. We have fully implemented the UN Resolution on Combating Corruption Article 19 requires that those in office who abuse a position of duty and who have a gain to themselves or to third parties of a physical or legal nature be fully implemented in article 364. Read carefully, it is completely in the same order as the 19th article of the UN convention. Article 365 does not have any bearing on the fight against corruption, for this article does not provide for a person’s gain to himself or to a third party to exceed his authority as a ministerial servant. This article provides for responsibility for a breach of the legal order established by article 19 of the Ukrainian Constitution. And when it's said that there's no profit and there's no harm in decriminalizing it, it's bad. For if an official, without authority, enters an extraordinary state in the region or in general in the State, what responsibility should this official bear if he does not do so as determined by law? Of course, it's criminal. But if the official, having the authority provided for by law, has acted, he will not be held liable by the criminal, for in this case he has not exceeded the authority, he has not gone beyond the authority given by law, and he will be held politically responsible. That's the difference. So today, we talk about the need to harmonize the UN convention in our legislation, the subject is empty, already harmonised in article three hundred.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u121	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u122	I'll finish. It is already fully reflected in article 19 of the convention in article 364 of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u123	Sergey Mishchenko, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! If we go back to the new history of Ukraine, we've seen a lot of leaders, presidents, leaders of the political forces who, in one way or another, have lost their rating, which has reached zero. But none of them attempted political killings. Because Timoshenko's conviction of Volodymyrna is the political murder of his competitor. I want to talk about what I would do if I were in a faction, not God, the leader of your faction by the same political. The leader of your party on the same political motives as the same Cave Court, the same Kiriev, was sentenced to 7 years' imprisonment by the same abuse. And after a person has been convicted, new criminal cases are still being abused. How would I have acted in this situation? I'll tell you, if this were to happen to your leader, I would leave this political force and vote for the same law. Because people are different from each other in their actions. So before you do that, think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear people's deputies, yesterday from this rostrum with this speech, the truth on the side of the one who does the real thing and changes lives for the better was President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine. Despite the poster and the fact that we reminded him that July needed to be free, he didn't realize that it was because of him that Ukraine today had turned out to be a rejected country in Europe and a country that no one wanted to deal with. It's a disgrace. We cut off the whole layer, we cut off our children's future. It's not normal, Your Honor. Now they're watching the session and they're saying, well, 370 votes are off, and 120 deputies are in the room. So about that and this project, which was first under number 7533, there was my alternate track one, but it's not confirmed, now it's going under number 9759. Should we accept it or should we not? Obviously, it needs to be accepted here and not just to deal with what the authorities are doing today is a real assassination attempt. Mr. Sergei, I'm talking to Mishchenko, it's not a political murder, it's a real murder and a real assassination. And that's why I want to be heard now by Mr. Pshonka, and I'm heard by Mr. Wolf, who today is bullying Lucenk, who is crying, who escaped from Odessa, who is crying for the Wolf. And today he's bullying Lucenko. I wanted to be heard today in a higher court of civil and criminal matters. Get into the situation and save the President. This law should be adopted in the first reading and in general as a law. And that's going to be the Council's requirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u127	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the harmonization of national criminal legislation with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. [[Registration number of bill 9759]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:03:40]] For a hundred and The decision is not supported. The bill was rejected. The factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, BUT 100, our Ukraine 52, the Communists did not vote, the Reforms - 1, the People's Party - did not vote, "Afterfaction" - 6. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. We are considering a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the decriminalization of responsibility for political decisions]] [[Registration numbers 9767 and 9767-1]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:36:04]] For 177 Offer supported. According to Bill 9767, Yuri Volodymyrovich Prokopchuk. Prepare Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, before the report, I would like to make such a report that this bill, as one of those relating to the introduction of Ukrainian criminal legislation to the requirements of the European Convention, was actually introduced on the eve of our session. He hasn't come through yet. There was no discussion by the committee of profile. There was no way to provide alternative bills. That is why I ask this bill, the draft bill, to be submitted to the committee and the full procedure so that there is no violation of article 116 of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u130	These requests must be made to the leadership of the factions who urged us to consider this bill on Monday. Such a decision was taken by the Conciliation Council. If you insist, I'm putting this motion to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u131	I'm asking you to make sure there's no disturbance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u132	Who's in favour of resubmitting this bill, please make up your mind. [[12:37:39]] For the 110. Unmoved. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u133	This confirms once again that President Yanukovic's words yesterday from this rostrum are quoted as saying, "In the middle of the 2012 priorities, I place the task of achieving a new quality of government and public services. Humanity, honesty and justice are the foundation of a new quality. First of all, they have to be finally dismantled by the old Soviet standards of repressive law in relations between the state and the citizen." And this fully confirms that the Party of Regions and most do not want to consider a bill that deals with the political repression and condemnation of Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka. But this bill was tabled by me and Sweden by Victor Dmitrovich, it's for you, gentlemen of honor, because it completely formalizes those who don't have to be criminally responsible for political decisions. If you see it, article 364 complements categories of people or persons who are not referred to as officials, namely, not to be accused of all these bills under Lucenka or Timoshenko, President of Ukraine, Cabinet of Ministers, other members of the Cabinet of Ministers. That is, you should know that the time will come when your president, your prime minister, and your cabinet members will answer the political articles. So think about it. And please support me in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u134	Thank you. But, Yuri Volodymyrovich, you were unfair when they said that the Party of Regions and others didn't want to look. They've just voted to see the bill now, and we're looking at it. So be specific. Bill number 9767-1, please. Reported Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, criminal law is a sector of rights that must contain fully verified and balanced legal norms that exclude any ambiguity in interpretation. The standards of the Criminal Code must be clear to all and contain a clear definition of what to do and what not to do. The resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which is required to implement Ukraine, points us to the need, more loyally, for the introduction of the Criminal Code to international standards. Here, in the hall, there are rumors of what is being done under Timoshenko. Guys, I'm talking to TV and radio. It wasn't Timishenko's fault, it wasn't proved in court! Every person who was there watched it on TV, read it in the newspapers, understood that Janukovic wanted to remain in power and wanted to kill a political opponent. This bill, it applies more to events that will take place after Timoshenko’s release. It will be more likely to concern your ministers and your president. And the articles proposed are 364th and 365th, and the bill proposes to establish that the responsibility lies solely with the person who misused power or exceeded her authority only when she did it for a useful reason. When she or others received a specific property reward. There is no evidence in Timoshenko’s case, I would stress, of any evidence that she had any useful motives and benefits. I want to remind you how the gas was turned off. Look at the weather today. More than 140 people were killed in the streets when the gas is in apartments and houses. When the gas was turned off for a new year, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u136	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u137	Julia Timoshenko was forced to take political responsibility and make a decision on signing gas contracts in order not to freeze the residents in the houses. There are many people who have worked in businesses who realize that when there is no gas, heat systems filled with water are simply dying and it could be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u138	Thank you. The article on gas has nothing to do with it. Have a seat, please. Yes, please sign up for the performance. It's a knock-off. Get ready for Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u139	Please pass it on to Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u140	Yes, please, Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! I want to read directly the Council of Europe resolution on this issue, which we are currently discussing. This is in fact the second paragraph of the resolution, which explicitly states: "The Assembly considers articles 364 and 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to be too broad in application, and in fact allows the criminalization of the post facto political process." Moreover, in this part of the resolution from the Party of Regions, which represented their faction at the Parliamentary Assembly, it was Mr. Popescu, Mrs. Ljovczyna, that was amended what they were witnessing. The Assembly therefore urges the government to amend these 2 articles of the Criminal Code without delay in accordance with European standards. The other one. In this connection, the Assembly requests the President of Ukraine to consider all legal remedies available to him to release these former members of the government and to allow them to enter the electoral process. What else does the Supreme Council need after these words? Therefore, we believe that this decision should be immediately voted out and that the decision of PARE should be implemented. Without this, it would be impossible to continue to fight crime, which is now in the country, instead of fighting political opponents using the Criminal Code. That is why we insist that the Criminal Code apply to those who buy $400 million in surpluses that cost $250. Those who buy national MPs in bulk and split up in the Supreme Council, and we'll hear about it today. That is where the Criminal Code should be applied, not against political opponents. That is why our faction insists that these articles be brought into line with international standards today, as required by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to which we have made commitments in the distant year 1995. This also applies in fact to a number of other documents directly related to the functioning of the judicial system, the prosecutor’s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u142	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u143	I'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u144	Vladimir Karpuk. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u146	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u147	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Fellow citizens, honourable voters, the international prestige of the country as a whole, the issue is that in all European territories: in the European Union, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in the embassies of civilized countries, there is one issue that is being addressed by Ukrainian representatives as a key issue, something that can unlock European integration: release political prisoners. Wherever the President or government officials or their authorized representatives go now, they face one question: Release political prisoners. And the question is not just about the reputation of Ukraine; it is about the economy, about the investment, about the legal system, about the European perspective, about every person who wants to simply live in a civilised Ukraine, about the free movement of a civilised Europe, and about the Ukrainian people, not as people from a country where human rights are being violated, but as representatives of a proud, independent and great nation. This is not something that can be done by the active authorities; it is not possible for Yanukovitch, who is personally interested in Timoshenko and Lucenko sitting for some reason. Tymoshenko is already in the colony, the second year Lucenka is being bullied at the S.I.A., not dating, not listening to witnesses who, by the way, all refuse to testify in the pretrial investigation, and are doing everything they can to put Lucenko in jail. They're all going away or they're going to be punished for nothing just because they're being calculated politically. Europe’s promises are made daily, saying that we, the authorities, say, decriminalize the relevant articles. Here is a 25 - chance to decriminalize these articles today. I'm not very sure of your sincerity, actually, I'm sure of your insincerity, but we urge you to do it and release it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u148	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u149	I'd like to give Stoyan a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u150	Please, Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Yesterday we witnessed the absence of a political culture of our opposition when, in the presence of the President, in the presence of the symbols of Ukraine, these people did everything they could to break up the President's speech. To the honor of the President, he spoke and set up a programme of activities for the following year. With regard to this article. I want to remind the audience that we're now going to say that we're taking changes, not for ourselves, but for you. But don't worry about us, you took care of us. Back in 2001. I recall that on April 5, 2001, the Criminal Code was under consideration, and then Brodsky, who headed the Committee on Entrepreneurship, proposed eliminating this article 365. And then the great lawyer, he's there, and I don't want to call him, because he was then the head of the Anti-Corruption Committee, he says, "No, you need to tighten the requirement regardless of which political power you belong to, which authority you belong to. I've committed a crime. Answer me." And then the entire faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, was then called, voted in favour of this article. It's been a while, you've been in power for 5 years. Why, then, did you do nothing to protect political prisoners who had committed certain violations? Then why did you decriminalize this article? And now you're fighting so hard for what to fire Julia Timoshenko. It will be followed by a respected Danishin, who was never a politician but a thief of the state. She's going to be followed by Požinov when they went into the Treeserve, and that's where the orange mice died because he stole everything. She will be followed by her husband, Julia Timoshenko. What kind of a politician is he? He's never done anything. And here Habakkuk comes, sells the earth, and now he's a politician, and so on and so forth. You want to cover up crimes with a political umbrella, that's not going to work, so this article can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u152	Please, one minute of the line, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u153	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to urge my colleagues not to speculate, since my name has been mentioned, as well as the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And I wanted to point out that international organizations fighting corruption have recognized 365 articles as an effective mechanism for combating corruption. This was also discussed by the United Nations, a group of GRECOs. With regard to conforming to the Council of Europe standards, the following should be read and quoted. What the Assembly believes is that such rigid international standards, which limit political and criminal responsibility, should continue to be developed. I would like to inform you that the Legal Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has already appointed a rapporteur to write a report on the delimitation of political and criminal responsibility. When we have international standards, including the Council of Europe, we will be able to do so. But we cannot abandon 365 articles as an effective mechanism for combating corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u154	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the decriminalization of responsibility for political decisions]] [[Registration number 9767]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:52:05]] For 155 Not supported. The factions. The Party of Regions – did not vote, BUT – 98, “Our Ukraine” – 51, the Communists – did not vote, “Reforms for the Future” – 1, “The People’s Party” – did not vote, “Afterfaction” – 5. A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the decriminalization of responsibility for political decisions]] [[Registration number of bill 9767-1]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:52:55]] For-157. The factions. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The party did not vote, BUT 98, Our Ukraine 53, the Communist faction did not vote. Reforms for the Future – 1, People's Party – did not vote, non-fractional – 4. Both bills are rejected. Two BUT factions and our Ukraine are asking for a recess. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it a declaration?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u155	A break? Please be on break for 30 minutes, up to 13 hours for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u156	We're continuing the meeting. Are those taking a break ready to perform? Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u157	Dear Chairman, dear compatriots! The faction authorized me to make the following statement. Today in our room, several times from the mouths of the majority, the phrase was, "Enough to find out about our fate outside the country, it's time to solve the problems in this room." We are signed under these words, and the next time we have clearly and ambiguously insisted on the consideration today, now the question of the fate of political prisoners: Julius Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, Valery Yvashchenka, and others That is, here in the country, in this room, by meeting the requirements of the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we have proposed to consider and adopt bills to harmonise the criminal legislation of Ukraine with European democratic norms, by which the country would rid itself of world disgrace as a country of prisons. It is clear to all of us, both inside and outside: Endless patience, the lingering insistence of world society. So that this end will not end for our country, because the next step of the civilized world can be the last step, followed by the complete isolation of our state. And the question is not even in the custody of accounts or in non-retirement status for officials, which is also possible. The problem is that the door to the European family can be completely closed before Ukraine, and the economy will lose any chance of breaking into the most attractive and desirable market in the European Union. And it will be an incorrigible tragedy for our great people, for it will rob them of such an ominous future. Our faction has required the adoption of these laws not only to make the notion of "political prisoners" go away forever. Harmonisation of national criminal legislation with progressive world legislation would not only allow Ukraine to fulfil its international legal obligations but also bring the national legal system closer to the high standards of the rule of law and the rule of law. That is, to guarantee the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. We've offered to think to you about our future, because these laws are for you, and not for you, but for you, first of all. And the terrible facts that Zabzaluk has revealed to our colleague are the corruption of preparing for the mass falsification of the elections that have just been made out of the press, so it's a powerful witness. You ignored these warnings in the queue. Today, all political responsibility for the inevitable challenges, risks, and threats lie entirely with you. So prepare for the answer both to history and to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, we are considering a draft decree to suspend the eviction of Ukrainian national minorities. [[Bill 9562 registration number]] The committee didn't consider it. And the committee's asking him to postpone his consideration. That's why I'm voting. Please. This is the Zarubinski Committee. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, and then a representative of the committee. One minute, please, and let's define the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, first of all, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality has considered this bill because I am its author, so it is not logical. And he supported him. We're, by the way, this bill came out because there were some of the best public hearings about national relations in Ukraine and their problems. And then, in fact, almost everyone who was sitting in this room supported it when I said that we were preparing such a draft decision, they supported it. Because of that pro committee. However, a representative of the Party of the Regions, John Popescu, came to me and said what needed to be moved. I don't see why this bill needs to be passed. In order to be thrown out, several members of the national minority were thrown into the street. If I'm going to make this a little bit short, I'm going to call these specific examples. I just don't understand why it's moving, it needs to be made right now, and the committee insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u160	Thank you. But your committee has nothing to do with this, you're the author, you're the head of the committee, but that means, if I'm the head of the committee, then all the bills are under consideration by my committee. I repeat, because you are misleading the people's deputies and those who listen to you. The bill was drafted by the Committee on Human Affairs, National Minorities, and International Relations. Support your health, but you are not in charge. Please, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the draft Decision on the Stop and Eviction of National Minority Organisations of Ukraine following the insistence of opposition on February 7th of the current year is included in the agenda of the day-to-day tenth session. [[Registration number 9562]] In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s Rules, articles 103, 108, after the introduction of the bill into the agenda of the day’s session, its preparation for the first reading is carried out by the Main Committee, which also includes the mandatory conduct of scientific expertise on it. Thus, his consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without the conclusion of the Main Committee and the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has led him to request opposition to the agenda of the day plenary session of 8.02. Therefore, it would be appropriate to postpone its consideration. This is also due to the fact that we have not received a list of at least those organizations that have been evicted. In addition, we received a response from the Ministry of Culture, which states that there is no information in Minculture on the number of cases of evictions by national minorities. We did not receive the information requested from the legislator. That's why we asked him to move, if he didn't, there'll be a vote in the hall, and then we'll express our point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u162	Yes, respectable colleagues exchanged their thoughts. Again, the situation that the Conciliation Council agreed to consider on Monday following the author’s insistence on the initiative. The committee is not ready, but it is up to you to decide what the Supreme Council will decide. Who's to postpone the review of the draft Decree to suspend the eviction of national minorities in Ukraine? Please be sure about the transfer. [[13:23:54]] For -8 So we're looking at it. There is a suggestion to consider a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:24:15.]] For 208 Supported. Now we're going to look at it. But before that, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 59 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal application, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine Zabzaluk Roman Omelanovic from the MP's "Reform for the Future" group in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call. And the next announcement. In accordance with articles 59, 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, according to a personal application, I report the departure of the Ukrainian People's Deputies, the entry, excuse me, of the Ukrainian People's Deputy to the faction "Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko - "Fathership" in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call of Zabzaluk Roman Omelanovic. [[Applause]] Bill 9562, national deputy Yavorowski, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u163	The scout has returned from the task of living, healthy, and we welcome him into our ranks. The problem that's put into this very short, clear and unambiguous decision is this. As chairman of the committee, I met with the head of the national minorities who live with us in Ukraine, Mr. Levitas. I got information, they came to us with a big request that there's a big problem with the places where societies are, the national societies of our Ukrainian national minorities. Among them are examples of just-just killers. For example, the Jewish society, which has its headquarters here in Kiev, has already owed 238, if I am not mistaken, thousands of dollars, walk in courts and are actually thrown out of the room. What's the matter? The point is that the city, the municipal authorities, are putting out such huge, grand prices for these buildings, that they're even refused, let's say, there, and entrepreneurial structures, commercial structures that make money. What, though, can make the same income as the national society that is being formed? It's about the Jews. A similar situation, for example, with the Polish Republican Society, which we have here, in Kiev. It's located in a basement room that no one really needs, and they pay for every square meter of 8 and they pay 8,000 dollars for it without having that kind of money. That's why I'm convinced that by conducting the massive, good, constructive hearings that were held here in our parliament, where we took another step for international understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u164	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u165	towards national convergence, it would be a very good step if we supported them not only verbally but by supporting them. I would very much like to vote in favour of this decree. These are our people, these are our fellow countrymen, and we have to help them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u166	Shall we discuss it? Well, you've been speaking since the committee, which means the position has come to the attention of the committee that the committee has not considered, hasn't it? Can we please talk about this? You don't have to? Then I'm voting for a motion to adopt a decree to suspend the eviction of Ukrainian national minorities. [[Registration number 9562]] Please vote. [[13:28:34]] For 124 It's a non-adopted decision. The factions. The Party of Regions – 7, "BUT – "Fathership" – 83, "Our Ukraine" – 28, the Communists did not vote, the reforms – 2, the People's Party did not vote, the non-fractional – 4. Although, I think, your honor, I think it's worth expanding here. Not only about national societies but also about all societies. Because besides nationals, there are other social organizations. This may also apply to them. If there are such facts. We are considering a draft Act amending article 135-2 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (referring to the prohibition of the implementation and application of collective (brigadial) material responsibility), (registration number 8695). There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[13:29:42]] For 204 Offer supported. The author of the bill is, unfortunately, ill. So please, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Svetlana Alexandrov's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u167	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The authors of the legislative initiative propose a new article 135. 2 The Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. And to establish that collective, brigade, material responsibility is prohibited in employment relations, implementation and application. On this point, it should be noted that the Order of the Supreme Court of Ukraine of 29 December 1992 No. 14, in the edition of the Plenum Order of 29 March 1997, No. 3, states that: "If there is no security for the preservation of material values other than those of the collective, the brigades with which the contract is made, the guilty officials, the court discusses the question of involving them in the case as co-reporters and determines the extent of the loss that corresponds to the degree of each of them's guilt and the extent of the loss of due compensation, taking into account the type and limits of material responsibility that is placed on them. Another damage is distributed among members of the brigade in accordance with the typical collective brigade agreement on material liability. That is, in the end, the legal responsibility of each person, as provided for in article 61 of the Constitution of Ukraine, is individual. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine does not support the draft law because it believes that a valid norm is in line with the relevant provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. The joint representative body of all Ukrainian trade unions and trade unions at national level does not support the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill should be rejected. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour, after considering the draft law, did not take a decision on the matter and bring it to the Supreme Council for determination. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u168	Yes, thank you, Svetlana Alexandrovna. Shall we discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u169	We're voting, aren't we? Dear colleagues, you have understood the essence of the question that today is a collective brigadial material responsibility if it is not possible to establish specific responsibilities for one person or another. The drafters suggest that this responsibility be removed. The committee did not determine its position, i.e. there was no need to vote in favour of the bill. The main scientific and legal department is suggesting that we reject it. Please, Pavlovsky, 1 minute and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u170	Respectable compatriots! It is proposed to abolish collective responsibility in the Labour Code. But at the same time, we need to know that the Tihypco government is now being prepared, with new changes, the Labour Code, where even more dragonish measures against hired workers are being prepared against workers. There are no employees ’ rights, all for the sake of a large employer’s capital. There will be a simplified procedure for the release of people. Workweek increased by 8 hours. And so on. So we need to know, especially the hired workers, the working groups that are preparing. It's not the Labour Code, it's the Slavery Code. And right now, we need to organize ourselves against this, protect our interests. And I call on the trade unions to be vigilant and vigilant, because slavery is being prepared for all employed workers in Ukraine. The feudal system, where there is one man, Janukovich, and all the other counsels are in them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u171	Chaplain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u172	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The MPs' group "Reforms for the Future!" You know, when we discuss this bill, at first it seemed to us that it would actually stand up to all the questions that really relate to the responsibilities of individuals in groups where it's largely about the theft of property. But when we came to the conclusion that such a bill could not be supported, we came to the conclusion that collective responsibility had been governed by valid legislation since 1947. The other one. The collective responsibility of enterprises that cannot be separated from each other, i.e. the individual’s individual responsibility in accordance with the full - time agreement, cannot be borne. And according to article 61 of the Constitution, such things are, in principle, unacceptable. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future will not support this bill and urge everyone in the Hall to give up such an idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u173	Alexander Stoyan, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I fully support what my colleague Caplienko said professionally. And I want to answer to the previous speaker, a member of our committee. Well, what are you batting? How much will you put on this Labour Code? On the contrary, we have put in place mechanisms that prevent the employer from freeing the person of work. There's not a word of an increase in working hours. On the contrary, there is a system that allows us to do things today. Working time, we forbid. There's a very transparent, clear system. Why can't we accept it? Because there, on the one hand, trade unions require more authority for themselves, and employers require more authority for themselves. We found a balanced approach. Not by chance yesterday, the President of Ukraine said, "In order to solve a lot of social issues, employment-related issues, we need to adopt the Labour Code. Then have a conscience when you put all that lies in your head and say that it is in Yanukovich’s favor. Well, stay in this lie, have a conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u175	Vyziewski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u176	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". As for the debate on a specific bill. In fact, today it is quite complex in dealing with matters, including collective responsibility. As to the questions raised here, well, in parallel and quite a timely way, about the Labour Code. Perhaps the Labour Code, which has been developed by more than one assembly and by a variety of majorities, has the right to consider it and to approach it seriously enough. One question. And who are the performers? We see that today's power, everything that it doesn't seem to accept for the benefit of entrepreneurs, ends with "entrepreneursian Middan," any other bill, ends with the President returning it, and we have to look at and listen again to the opposition constructive positions that are echoing from the well-constructed people in this room. Too bad some people are just like the dogs of Paul, reacting to the raising of a hand. Janukovic, you need to push on the green buttons, the other hand's shift is not to push the buttons. I'd like the parliamentarians to sit here and listen to specific constructive suggestions and opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I don't see any politics or politics here. A simple and clear bill, so all of us are trying to turn it into politics, there's no politics here. The answer here is whether there is responsibility or no responsibility, that's all. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a bill amending article 135-2 of the Labour Code (for the prohibition of the introduction and application of collective (brigadious) material responsibility). [[8695]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:38:11]] For-7. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of State oversight and the monitoring of compliance with labour protection legislation. [[Registration number 8484]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:38:47]] For 208 Supported. Reports Hara Vasil Georgievovich, author of the bill. Get ready, Smellow.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, this draft law - amending some laws of Ukraine to streamline the implementation of State oversight and to monitor compliance with labour law - has been designed to apply an important and binding constitutional principle in national legislation: compliance with the conditions of international treaties of Ukraine. I recall that in 2004, we had ratified two conventions related to this issue: the number 81 on industrial and trade inspections; and the International Labour Organization Convention 129 on Labour Inspection in Agriculture. The need for this law is that the existing legislation is contrary to the requirements of ILO Convention Nos. 81 and 129. The adoption of this law will ensure Ukraine's implementation, first of all, of international treaties and enhance, above all, the effectiveness of State oversight of labour protection legislation, and which will contribute to improving the situation of labour protection in the country and, above all, to preventing accidents in the production and preservation of human lives. I would like to point out that these proposals that you have been offered are collective work, not only my and Tamara Vasilievna Egorenko, whose authors we are. They were trained together with specialists from the State Security and Safety Supervisory Service. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council proposes to adopt it as a basis and has made a number of specific comments that will necessarily be taken into account in the preparation of this draft for second reading. The Committee shall request support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u179	Please, Smélova Svetlana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u180	According to the provisions of part three of article 43 of the Constitution, every citizen is entitled to adequate, safe and healthy working conditions. Today, there is a trend towards a decrease in the level of industrial trauma in Ukraine, but it remains quite high compared to the European states that apply international standards. This bill brings Ukraine’s Labour Protection Laws and the basic principles of State oversight, control in the field of economic activity, into conformity with the International Labour Organization Convention. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, having considered at its meeting a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on State oversight and monitoring of labour protection legislation, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it as a basis for the first reading. The main scientific and expert management is proposing to adopt it as a basis for further development of the comments and suggestions made. Request to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u181	Yes, Your Honor, do you understand? In addition to Paul’s and Visusian’s, no one insists? They insist, sign up. Yes, please, Vladimir Leschenko. Get ready for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u182	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear, venerable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, the Ukrainian Labor Protection Act is not in force today in many cases. A private owner looks at this problem through his fingers. Why would he spend extra money? Trade unions are limited or mostly under the heel of a business manager, and authorities that are required to monitor the implementation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine do not perform their functions in this part of the company. Thus, violations — including gross — of the protection of work requirements are widespread. During the time of the Soviet authorities, the State’s control over the protection of work was thorough, and with Ukraine’s return to capitalism, the issue was thrown away in a permissive manner. The introduction of Article 39-1 on Work Protection into the Ukrainian Act – "The manner in which State supervision is carried out to comply with the requirements of labour protection legislation" will help improve matters in this area. The Communist faction will therefore vote in favour of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u183	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get Carpuku ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the author of the Bill Vasile Hari, who knows this very well, because today the issue of labour protection is really painful. Although our colleague Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna said that the trauma had decreased, it was not because it had become better. Because fewer businesses, as they work, shrink businesses, reduce jobs, but the trauma is great. How did you do that before? I want to remind you from history: formerly, part-time job protection was done by the state, government structures, and I was more concerned with the trade union. They had the right to be prescribed, they had the right to stop production, they had the right to impose fines. During the reform of the labor protection system, the job protection functions of the majority have moved to the state. Governmental bodies, government structures created. I'll be honest with you: on the same private enterprises where there's a violation of the Labour Protection Act, because the gross violations of the work organization of people, the unions can't be affected right now. State authorities have no right to enter there, and there is no one who really has the responsibility for violating and enforcing labour law. Thus, the bill clearly provides for changes to the law, which reinforces the employer’s responsibility for enforcing labour protection laws. First of all, I stress that the possible consequences of protection of work are biased. Hence, this law is not political; it does not need funds; it does not need any detailed discussion. I propose to take it as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u185	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukraine. After him is Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u186	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass on the word to Vladimir Viezowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u187	Please, Vladimir Viezowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u188	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". It's about a specific bill. To the truth, the idea here has the right to life because it wants to improve and protect a person’s work from dangerous working conditions. The more they occur in many cases, let's say, quite instantaneously. And this requires a certain immediate response from the relevant state authorities. But there are certain "but" in which many things are hidden. First. Part two of article 39, to which the amendment is made, does not address the issue of checking the office of the central executive body for the supervision of work, namely, who gives the final benefit of coming to check whether it may be his personal activity. The results of the final examination will be applied to whether the employer is able to appeal, for we understand that certain employers in their position who do not want to pay the wages of the public service may fall and be subject to scrupulousness, including not only firefighters but also labour inspectors. That is why we must ensure that those entrepreneurs who have the opportunity to enter the field and speak the word in their defence are not terrorized not only by taxes, fires, other public services, but also by those who should defend the interests of workers in this enterprise, not by the interests of the State or those of the booties of the State. Therefore, until these issues are settled and we see how we would like to directly insert a normative document, a state document, a legal position on the application of measure in this enterprise, while there is no concept of this vision, we cannot vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u189	Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u190	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, today, when there is the sovereignty of the great shadow capital sometimes with criminal roots, it is clear that this capital is beyond the protection of work. He just gets profits and hides them off-shore zones and they don't care about upgrading businesses or jobs or any more about job protection. Thus, today more than ever before, there is an urgent increase in State oversight of the enforcement of labour law. What's more, now the role of the unions, their function in this issue is gone, with them the oligarchs, employers, owners of businesses are not counting at all. And what's more, I would like to point out that the new Labour Code is about to remove the whole section on the rights of trade unions in general, and when a person is released, there is no agreement of trade unions, even as it is today. So we need the state to take these issues under its control, and we need to clean them up. The issue of labour protection is the health and life of working people who have no one to turn to except the state right now. And what I'd like to say is that the unions should finally wake up and resume their role in protecting the hired workers themselves. Stop looking at the employer's mouth! Previously, you were looking at the secretary of the party, the director, and now you're serving a great deal of capital. Trade! Wake up, become independent, protect the people of employment, your time has come, the time of independent unions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u191	Yes, don't look at independent unions, because your colleague is leading them. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the first reading, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the organization of State oversight and the monitoring of compliance with labour protection legislation. [[Registration number 8484]] Please vote. [[13:51.]] For 259. The bill is supported in the first reading. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are considering a draft Act amending article 229 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the characteristics of ethyl alcohol taxation used for production]] [[Registration number 9258 and 9268]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:51:50]] For 219 Supported. Please, 9258, represents Gorbatuk Anatoly Alexiyovich. Get ready for Maibeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u192	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, national deputies, is notorious for the fact that the development of the veterinary form and the market for veterinary medicinal products in Ukraine is not being properly developed. Despite the importance of the domestic veterinary market, its state regulation at the present stage is not effective enough. This is especially true of the absence of production in Ukraine of many important biological products and of the vast majority of chemicals. There are many outstanding scientific and practical problems, the need to improve the state administration of the veterinary farm and the market for veterinary medicinal products in Ukraine make it necessary to adopt the bill. We suggest that, in order to apply the rules of article 229 of the Ukrainian Tax Code fairly, the arrangements for the taxation of ethyl alcohol, which is used for the manufacture of medicines and veterinary medicinal products. Yes, after examining the situation of article 229.1.1b, paragraph 229.1 and article 229.1.5b, paragraph 229 of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine, we conclude that these standards do not take into account the fact that the market in medicinal products and the market in veterinary medicinal products is closely interconnected and form a pharmaceutical market that is part of the chemical and biotechnology markets. At the same time, the veterinary market is part of the animal health market. So these standards don't take into account the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act, namely the production of veterinary drugs. In order to improve government administration and support the domestic sector in the veterinary market, the draft law proposes to amend the tax system for ethyl alcohol in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products. The adoption of the aforementioned draft Ukrainian law will contribute to the improvement of the production of veterinary products and substances for their manufacture, promotion and State support for the development of the domestic veterinary market and the improvement of the national market.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u193	Thank you. It's a 9268 bill. Majbeard Sergey Fedotovich. Get Karakai ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u194	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, is invited to your attention by the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[Registration number 9268]] In that bill, with a view to the equitable application of the rules of article 225 and 229 of the Ukrainian Tax Code, it is proposed to define the treatment of spirits of ethyl alcohol used by wine-growing enterprises. Should the proposed changes be made to those articles of the Ukrainian Tax Code, the following will be resolved. First, those rules would take into account the recent amendments to the Law on Grapes and Grapes in relation to the definition of “Vermouth” as wine. The primary and mixed wine industries, which are producers of wine and fruit-based materials as well as vermouths, will receive alcohol for the production of vermouths and other reinforced wines under one law, in accordance with the requirement of article 229 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. The alcohol will be released at zero excise tax rate. At the same time, the tax bill will be issued for 180 days with a guarantee of excise duty on conversion into 100 per cent alcohol at the rates in force. The proposed changes would allow primary and mixed wine enterprises that produce vermouths to pay a tax on finished products after the complete production process, in accordance with articles 222 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. For the time being, a 90-day bill is being drafted by producers and tax authorities of the Code, alcohol for the manufacturer of vermouth. But the bill is calculated on the basis of the value of the finished product, which will not guarantee the excise tax, given the excise tax on alcohol at a conversion rate of 100 per cent of absolute alcohol. In the case of wine-growing enterprises, double taxation occurs from the production process. The adoption of the proposed draft law would in no way reduce the income of the budget, but would be clear and clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u195	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u196	The rules and regulations for the production of alcohol in Vermouth have been defined. I would like to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u197	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Yuri Karakai
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u198	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the bill. And considering that he's cancelling the double taxation of Vermouth producers and that this will contribute to the development of Ukrainian enterprises in this field, the committee is proposing to the Supreme Council to support the proposed bill in the first reading. Those unscrupulous remarks that have been made by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration can be taken into account in the second reading. At the same time, the Committee requests the Supreme Council to take into account the provisions of draft 9258 of the draft Law and of Pisarczuk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u199	Thank you. No one's insisting on Kick-Ass? Please, Bully. I'm sorry. Take it off. Sign up. Yes, please, Karpuk. After him, asshole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u200	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". It's a bill. I will speak in favour of Bill 9258, submitted by Anatoly Alexiyovich Gorbatyuk, he proposes to amend the two sub-paragraphs of article 229 of the Ukrainian Tax Code concerning the zero excise duty rate on ethyl alcohol, which is used to produce veterinary preparations. The bill was also discussed by the Health Committee and was unanimously supported. Because this zero rate of excise duty is for the manufacture of medicines that are used in medical practice. And it's clear that this has to be transferred to the production of veterinary drugs. Because we're going to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u201	Please, Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u202	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Parliamentary Group Reforms for the Future, Party of Ukrainian Lefts and Villagers. Our parliamentary group will support Bill 9268 and it must be voted in the Hall today. Because it's really a law that will make it easier for wine companies to work, those who specialize in the production of Ukrainian vermouths. I want the people's deputies to understand, I want to tell you that in Ukraine, in fact, one enterprise is Koblevo's fault, which is produced by Ukrainian vermouths, according to Ukrainian recipe, by insistences that are also made in Ukraine, by herbs that are also gathered in Ukraine. And in fact, this bill provides an opportunity to do so that Ukrainian vermouths will not be subject twice to the excise congregation for alcohol. And they're going to be more competitive with that product that's being imported into Ukraine and spilling it on other businesses in Ukraine that are also producing vermouths. In fact, however, they spill vermouths produced in other nations. So we're actually supporting Ukrainian winemaking and those Ukrainian companies that specialize in this very important, thin and very useful thing like manufacturing Ukrainian vermouths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u203	One minute, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u204	Gentlemen, I don't mind the support of a domestic manufacturer. But the general rule is that if the same product is taxed in one case and not taxed in another, then it goes where it is not taxed. If we want to support the veterinarians, let us give benefits to the final product, not to the primary product that can be used for other purposes, and to promote the development of alcoholism. The same is true of vermouths. Generally speaking, vermouth is not the best drink for Ukrainians, let them drink natural products, namely, dry wines and our traditional ones: vodka and so forth. So I'm going to vote no.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The only thing I've asked for in the vote is that the bill is not alternative. They don't exclude each other. Bill 9258 deals with veterinary medicine, and the second is about what people use. So I'd like you to consider that they don't deny each other these bills. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Taxation of ethyl alcohol for individual production. [[Registration number 9258]] Please vote. [[14:02:29]] For-34 Not supported. Bill number 9268 is put to the vote. Please vote. [[14:02:54]] For 253 Copy that. Dear colleagues, we have a chapter like the rereading of the first reading. We're looking at the draft Law on the Rules of Ethical Conduct. [[Registration number 4420-d]] There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. [[14:03:31]] For the 220. Supported. Please, Valerius Ananiyovich Beviz. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u206	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has amended legislation on public officials’ ethics. Over the past 10 years, the Supreme Council has considered eight bills on this subject. Unfortunately, it is known that none of them have been able to obtain the status of law, and at this time the world community has adopted: the International Code of Conduct for State Officials, approved by the United Nations Organization, the Model Code of Conduct for State Officials of the Council of Europe. Furthermore, article 8 of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which also determines the conduct of civil servants in carrying out their official duties, is still in force today. This is the reason why we passed the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption, and now we are eliminating a major gap in the legislative regulation of the definition of ethical standards of conduct of persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill that includes 12 guiding rules for the conduct of public officials. Among them are legality, priority of interest, political neutrality, tolerance, impartiality, competence and efficiency, confidence-building, confidentiality, abstinence from carrying out illegal decisions or assignments, and a number of others. This bill, in accordance with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy by the President of Ukraine, is based on the provisions of the Model Code of Conduct for State Officials of the Council of Europe. Further, these 12 rules will develop appropriate codes and standards of conduct, rules for the prevention and resolution of conflicts of interest, as provided for in article 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u207	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u208	on the principles of preventing and combating corruption. In this regard, please support the bill in its first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u209	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? No, no one insists. Yes. Besides Hanustak, who else would like to make a statement? Then please, Karmazin. All right, check it out. Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Behind her is Rybeka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in the imagination of people, a person authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government is not just a specialist, it's a personification of state and power. And the conduct of such a person, regardless of his position, his attitude toward the matter, his citizens, his attitude toward the thoughts of others, even his language and appearance, is shaped not only by his own authority, but also by the authority of that service that he identifies, and by the authority of the State as a whole. Such phenomena as lack of professionalism, such as prejudice and excess of authority, corruption, bribery among persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self - government, and so on, are evidence of a low level of culture of governance and ethics. Moreover, in the context of the fight against corruption in Ukraine, one of the primary tasks of ours is to establish clear rules, requirements for the conduct of such persons who are authorized to perform the functions of the State under their responsibilities. Ethical preparation, the existence of general requirements for their conduct, is one of the essential tools in resisting corruption. I support this bill, and our faction will support it. I just want to say that Ukraine’s current legislation on professional ethics in the public service and in the service of local self - government has already regulated some of the rules. We have recently adopted the State Service Law, and there is a duty of government officials to adhere to the rules of professional ethics established by law. So I propose that this bill be supported as a basis. To the second reading, work to correct some of the flaws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u211	And thank you. Rybeka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, as co-author, I ask you to support the bill and to pass on the word of Mikola Tomenko now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u213	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, the work of the copyright team in Behaz, Rybeka, Omelchenka, and others is extremely important. And I think that one of the key dangers today is not meeting the basic standards that we have set in anti-corruption legislation, one of which sounds like a conflict of interest. So I spent a year in trials with Leonid Czernovecki and his team, who were offended by my speech on the Supreme Council, where I gave an example of a classic conflict of interest when decisions on land, real estate, budget use were given to direct and distant relatives. And Chernewsky took offense, said he couldn't go out because he was ashamed of the Ukrainian people and tried me. I tried the Supreme Court. Happily, the court declared my position legitimate. If we were to have this legislative act, I was absolutely convinced that Leonid Chernewicki would not build a house in Georgia and not go out the second time, get married, but sit in prison. Because according to the testimony of his relatives, which some of them are going through today on this matter, it would be perfectly clear to us that we would put on our "action by telephone," as he is called, which is very much liked by Prime Minister Azarov, because he does not prevent him from working. The second position is extremely important: abstinence from carrying out illegal decisions or errands. Right before the election campaign began, clear instructions have already begun, where the smart heads of district administrations, other officials, verbally advise their subordinates, for example, or by appropriate, as it were, to write a line into a known party of officials or, say, lobbying some decisions. They don't fall under the sphere of influence, and a lower level of government is under the press. Thus, this article enables them to say that we are not carrying out an illegal decision by the head of the district administration or another official. This article is also very important. And of course, the fundamental point concerns the subject of privilege, as it were, by party, regional, other sign. I'll give you one example. The Cherka press analyzed the regional sign of officials in the Cherka region: 160 from the Donetsk region. Well, there's no normal people in Chercas who can control it. We've already reached BTI, BTI's in the Donetsk district, and we're in charge of the Cherkas region. A violation of the law? Of course, it's a violation, because it's an advantage in the interests of the regional sign. I believe, fellow believers, we need to approve in the first reading and speed it up to acceptance as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u215	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u216	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look closely at the observation of scientific expertise, it suggests that the bill be rejected. As an argument, scientists say that such standards can be written in other laws and so forth. In my opinion, after examining all the benefits and downsides there are. Of course, there's real and good grain in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, but given our reality, when we're here right now, let's say 120 people, but on board 370. 370! So I think we need to adopt this code. And now, Adam Ivanovich, in two readings. I think after that there'll be a desire to vote for someone else. Because it's the same thing. Mr. Ephraim, if you show me that I vote for someone if you show me. But I agree with you, Mr. Ephraim, that should not be the empty lava of "Our Ukraine" -- the People's Self-Defense." And it's not exactly empty: there's a cook, there's a Blackwolf, you see Carmazin, but you see Katherine. So we have, thank God, people, but few. That's why. But I'd like to ask anyway. Yeah, rep, I specifically named your last name. That's what I called it, so that we can find what the President called for yesterday. He called for compromise, and he called for mutual understanding. So if, in response to my proposal, you say, we're adopting this law now, and your "carcases," which are now in 451 districts, somewhere in the Caribbean area, they're not voting. Then it'll be good. That's why I'm offering to go first.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, we will be determined. Even though we don't have time for a lineup, we've got so much time. We don't have time for lines, we have. I'm saying there's no time for replicas. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because we have 30 seconds to go. Please, Ephraim, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to argue with anyone here. I'd like to think about this. For the next three days, our colleagues here in this room refer to the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. To its decision concerning Ukraine. Thus, 700 people who should vote in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe had taken a decision on Ukraine by 70 votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u219	Blackwolf, line. But please, speaking of my right cancer, no more provocations. Blacksmith, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u220	Adam Ivanovich, he did what any deputy had to do. It's his absolute right. That's why I don't understand what you're doing to Karmazin. That's the first one. Now I'm answering the Party of the Regions. Dear friends, what is happening in the Council of Europe or in some parliaments, where the necessary number of votes is not required, comes only out of their domestic legislation. According to Ukrainian legislation, every MP has to vote for himself in the Ukrainian Constitution. And so your reference to something else being voted on doesn't matter. You must carry out the Ukrainian Constitution, and this is your sacred duty as a citizen and as a deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-08-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, let us refer to this bill with complete seriousness. I would like each of you to really read the perfectly logical, normal and correct conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Everyone who speaks, including the reporter, frightens us by the Council of Europe and so forth that they have accepted and we should accept. Lawyers say that there is no law in any country of the world that we want to accept with you today. There are subordinate laws at the level of ministries and authorities that the minister has the right to punish for violating the ethics of the civil servant. And it sets standards that he can punish. We're here writing declarations that we can't, that we shouldn't be involved. What's next? They wrote a declaration and stopped at it. But your right. Your right. So we're running for Europe faster than Europe. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of the draft Law on the Rules of Ethical Conduct. [[Registration number 4420-d]] [[14:17:26]] For 279 So at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare it closed. Please work on the committees, because we need to look at the bills that we have included in the agenda, especially what we have before the second reading. Tomorrow we start work, as usual, at 10 a.m.
