ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare. Please register, Your Honor. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:13]] The 420 national deputies registered in the session hall. Dear colleagues, since we announced the vote at 1:45 p.m., we did not close the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And, honourable colleagues, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. There are 420 national deputies registered. We need to hear, your honorary colleagues, the head of the Counting Commission, who is to announce the results of the vote in favour of the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, head of the Task Force.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u2	Protocol No. 2 of the meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 15 March 2012. Present: Head of the Counting Commission, Deputy of the Counting Commission, Secretary of the Counting Commission, members of the Counting Commission. They heard about the conclusion of the secret ballot on the appointment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights included the nominations of Zakharov Eugen Yuhimovich, Lutkov Valeria Volodymyrovna. On the basis of the results of the secret vote, the Digital Commission has established: the number of national deputies recognized — 450; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who received ballots for secret ballots — 392; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote — 391; the number of ballots declared invalid — 27; the number of ballots that were not supported by any candidate — 18. Zakharov Eugene Yuhimovich, number of votes cast as candidate 134. Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna, the number of votes cast as candidate is 212. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 6 and 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, and chapter IV of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, the Counting Commission has decided that no candidate has been appointed to the post of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights. The head of the Counting Commission, the deputy head of the Counting Commission, the Secretary of the Counting Commission, the members of the Counting Commission. [[the signature is]] [[captions are]] [[captions are]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are not allowed because it was a secret vote. But I'm convinced that every faction knows exactly how they voted, what manner of action they made, so they don't need factions. Right? Yeah. Dear national MPs, we accept information, we take it to the knowledge. From tomorrow, that is, from March 16, 20 days in order to be able to offer candidates or candidates to serve as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Therefore, I ask, fellow Members, to exercise the right of 113 and more national deputies to make appropriate submissions. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of the issues outlined in the schedule. We continue to consider the Act on the characteristics of the sale of shares belonging to the State in the statutory capital of banks in which the State took part. Please, we have 21 amendments now, Yuri Carmazin. No, then we'll move on quickly. 22nd. None. 23rd. Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u5	Carmine's gone, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to remind you that we are considering a bill that gives us the right to sell a share of state shares with the help of an institution like a sales advisor. And my proposal that we include in the commission that will sell the National Bank, because it turns out that strangely, everyone is on a commission that prepares for the sale of a stock package, there is no National Bank. At the same time, I think the state has invested 30 billion dollars in these banks, and the National Bank has invested several tens of billions in the refinancing and is not part of the commission. I'm reminding you that you and I have taken away from the National Bank the function of working with insolvent banks, and we've given it to the Population Guarantee Fund, which at the same time took away the status of a state institution, I remind you. Now we're depriving the National Bank of working with state banks. Please support my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u6	23 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[16:06:53]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. The 25th revision of Arjevetin, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u7	Now, ladies and gentlemen, the payment of this foreign seller of our state parts. According to the law to keep this high-paying, you realize that it's not a small amount of money to keep such a seller. And here's the rule: if the time limit for a consultant to sell a stock package goes beyond one budget period. I mean, you can sell these banks for years, pay them money. And I'm going to read the conclusion of the Legal Authority that when the deadline exceeds one financial year, it turns out that otherwise the payment of the services of the relevant advisers is done without compliance with the relevant legislation and contract. In addition, this rule does not contain sources of funding and continues with the text. And in conclusion, I would like to say, please read the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, read the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Legal Office, which said that it is absolutely unacceptable to accept such a structure in the sale of public particles with the help of foreign advisors. Please, please, listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, Amendment 25 is being voted on. [[16:08:26]] For-25 Correction not supported. Baranov. 26 amendments. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, as head of the Committee on Budgets, I must warn you that the non-admission of this amendment leads to a violation of the Constitution of 95 articles and is contrary to articles 4 and 13 of the Budget Code, which is the decision of the Committee. And the Chief Legal Authority, in its comments to the bill, also referred to this, the non-conformity of the Constitution with the Budget Code. Therefore, we must realize that if we do not support this amendment, we will deliberately violate the Code of Budgets and the Constitution of Ukraine. I ask you to vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u10	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u11	This rule is prescribed in the first reading. Costs derived from the sale of stock packages are included in the national budget of Ukraine and are used by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for repayment or at the request of the National Bank and beyond. I mean, there's a list of what these costs are used for. Thus, the working group concluded that it was still necessary to leave it in the form that was first presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u12	But at the same time, the head of the committee has absolute logic and reason that the funds included in the State budget can be used solely by the State Budget Act or the Government Budget Change Act. You also propose a working group in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine to give such a right to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u13	We have special funds, we have funds and we have special funds, not government budgets, and we use them accordingly. So it's a matter of a separate law. But as the Supreme Council will determine, it will eventually be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, I'm putting 26 amendments to the vote and I'm pointing out to you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot demonstrate the infamous, sometimes insolent disregard of the Constitution of Ukraine. And you can't copy the Constitution under someone's wishes, including I think the committee shouldn't allow that kind of attitude. This is not the first time we have proposals that are grossly contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. So I would ask you to make a decision based on the Constitution, not on someone’s willingness to manage the funds that will be received in this connection. I understand that my calls may be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u15	But I don't need Minfin, I know that Minfin would like the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to accept the budget at all. So they can accept the budget. I'm voting on Amendment 26. Please vote. [[16:11:52]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I'm going to say right now, I'm going to point out that we already have laws adopted in the first reading mode, that the Supreme Council should not even make a known decision on the basics of budgetary policy, i.e. the Budget Resolution. Let us work in this regard and continue to bridge the road to lawlessness. Please, the 27th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u16	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, unfortunately, you're right. And now Minfin is doing everything to get the Supreme Council removed. But in addition to the Supreme Council, the National Bank is being removed. And you'll think about what the sums are, 30 billion plus 30 billion -- 60 billion. And there's not even a National Bank commission. I'm very sorry that my 21st and 22nd amendments have not been accepted. Well, at the end of the day, it's the 27th Amendment. Although I will be writing the President about imposing a veto on this ridiculous anti-Ukrainian law. So, just so you know, I propose that this law take effect the day after the day of its publication. And this is in accordance with article 57 of the Constitution, which states that laws that are not brought to the known population by law are not valid. How, then, do they come into force from the very day they enter? Come on, let's vote for it. Although I'm still going to be asking for a veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u17	Vote 27 of Yuri Karmazin’s amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u18	Please back up! [[16:13:46]] For-48 The decision is not taken. We've considered all the amendments. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill needs substantial work and comments. Therefore, according to the Rules, the first sentence of the Committee is that of adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a law of the draft Act on the characteristics of the sale of shares belonging to the State in the statutory capital of banks whose capitalization the State has taken part. [[Registration number 9362]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:14:40]] For 226 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code is being announced for consideration. [[on raising the minimum age of marriage]] [[Registration number 8588]] The reporter is Soslov Evgeny Ivanovich. Please, Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u19	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism considered proposals and amendments to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on raising the minimum age of marriage]] [[Registration number 8588]] The bill was drafted in accordance with the final recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child adopted on January 28, 2011, and the outcome of the third and fourth periodic reports of Ukraine on the implementation of the enforcement measures set out in the Convention, rights and progress achieved in the exercise of these rights. The bill had 6 proposals: 5 proposals included, 1 rejected. A rejected proposal to set the marriage age for women at 17 years of age. This position is not in line with the logic of the bill and the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child. The main legal authority for the bill has no comment. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code on second reading and in general. [[on raising the minimum age of marriage]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u20	Correction, Your Honor, 3 unaccounted for, Yuri Carmazin. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u21	Yuri Carmazin. I will always, Vladimir Mikhailovich, insist on issues that benefit the people. In Section I of the bill in the Family Code, part one of the first article 22 suggests that we leave it as a valid text, namely, "the marriage age for a woman is set at 17 and for a man at 18 years of age." When the institution of the family among the growing generation and young people loses its relevance and significance, the rise in the level of minimum marriage age, I think, will not justify the need to adopt the relevant legal and regulatory act – the introduction of a more civilised and responsible attitude towards marriage relations that are inherent in the ethnic and cultural traditions of Ukrainian society. Because the scope of family regulation requires balanced decisions and the application by the State of moderate influences, such as the need to raise marriage age, is not appropriate and relevant in the established practice of single - parent marriages. Please support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u22	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u23	I would like to respond briefly, if I may. Pursuant to article 2 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child there's every person who hasn't reached the age of 18. What's more, I want to add and say one thing after. Take, look at even examples, European examples and, for example, in Switzerland from the age of 18, Sweden from the age of 18, even in our neighbors, such as Poland from the age of 18 and Russia from the age of 18. Therefore, the committee suggested that the amendment should not be accepted and left in its existing form from the age of 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 3rd Yuri Carmazin. [[16:19:04]] For-30 No correction supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. There is no chief legal authority to comment on the bill. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on raising the minimum age of marriage]] [[Registration number 8588]] Please vote. [[16:19:48]] For 259. The law is passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u25	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, worked out a table under the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners (registration number 9462) until second reading. There were 82 proposals, of which 74 were included, 8 was rejected. So we are ready to consider the second reading, if necessary, as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, I am referring to the amendments that have been taken into account, if anyone insists, we will put to the vote. Amendment 6. Rejected. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u27	Yuri Carmazin. In Amendment 6, I propose in article 6 that after the word of the vehicle, I add: "and also with the participation of a means of transport whose owner did not insure his civil liability or the uninstalled means of transport," followed by the text. These changes are suggested to reconcile the concepts used in the law. Thus, article 41 of this Law stipulates that civil and legal responsibility arises in the event of its use by means of a means of transport, the owner of which has not secured his civil and legal responsibility, nor has the vehicle been installed. That is why I ask, honourable national MPs, to support my proposal, it is totally civilized. By the way, it's not polished at all. That's me for Mr Chechchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u28	6 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[16:22:14]] For-35 Correction not supported. Amendment 13 Yuri Karmazin Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u29	Amendment 13 refers to changes to paragraph 9.2, where I propose in article 9, the words "authorized authorities for submission of the ICTY" should be replaced by the words "Office of the Ministers of Ukraine". I hereby base this on the fact that, according to section 7 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine determines the size of the insurance and the maximum size of the insurance tariffs or the method of actuarial calculations. I am now addressing the representatives of the Party of Regions as a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you can't move away from a terrible defeat: your agent has not gone to the Human Rights Commissioner. However, please adjust to the working order and start to maintain the right proposals so that the President does not veto your laws. Please support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u30	13 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[16:23:51]] For-33 We didn't. 14th Amendment. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u31	Yuri Carmazin. I proposed that paragraph 8 of the bill should be deleted, a paragraph which was intended to be supplemented by a new sentence: "The benefit is granted under the terms of personal control of such means of transport to any person who refers to the categories of Ukrainian citizens mentioned in this paragraph, without the purpose of providing paid services for the carriage of passengers or cargo." I propose that this very point be excluded in order to ensure equality of citizens before the law. Please support my offer. I'm also asking the Party of Regions to focus, to move away from a terrible defeat, to conclude that there is no more in your majority's room, and so look for something new in this life that will come after today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u32	Thank you. It's on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Tell me how. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 14. [[16:25:24]] For-35 No correction supported. One, 25th. Is she being insisted on by Eden? No, it's not. Carmazine, 36. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u33	You're in such a hurry, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 36a refers to my proposal to insert in paragraph 27.3 in article 27 after the words "children" I propose that the words "other members of the family who were in the custody of the victim" be supplemented by the words "other members of the family who were in the custody of the victim" continue to follow the text. [[adopted]] Because not only children can benefit but other family members can support the victim. Therefore, this article should be extended to these people for the benefit of these people. I would like to support this proposal, it is completely apolitical, and this list relates to compensation for the damage caused by the victim’s death. And I think that my list is more or less protecting the rights of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u34	It's the 36th amendment. [[16:27:09]] For-45 Correction not supported. 46 Amendment by Yuri Carmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u35	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunate that my previous amendment is not supported. You rule out a lot of people's right to compensation for the victim's death, it's not a joke, it's a very serious thing. At the point. my next amendment 46 refers to paragraph 39.1. of Article 39, where I propose in the second sentence to delete the words "that may contain additional requirements for insurers". These changes are due to the fact that establishing such a position as the possibility of prescribing additional insurance requirements under the MTSO statute may lead to abuse by the body. I believe that all claims made to insurers should be provided for exclusively by law. That is why I propose an amendment. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u36	I'm betting on a vote of 46. [[16:28:34]] For-30 Correction not supported. Amendment 54, Bondik, do you insist on it? No, it's not. Yes, all other adjustments are included. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u37	The committee recommends the adoption of the bill as a whole in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, before putting this motion to a vote, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill can only be adopted after having taken into account the observations of the General Legal Authority. The proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners is put to the vote. [[16:30:08]] For 259. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, I've had to draw your attention to the comments of the Chief Legal Authority, given that we are with you in due time to adopt the Law on the Cancellation of State Technical Review of Transport. Seems like a good decision has been made, but the letters coming in, I'm sending the faction leaders to read what it's worth today to conduct a technical review of non-state institutions that have grown hundreds of times. Especially in rural areas. If you had to have one license plate on the tractor before, now you have two license plates, as a minimum. And the prices for technology have risen a hundredfold. Because they've been handed over to commercial structures to do the work. It is announced for consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on how late the TV program will end]] [[Registration number 6429]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, the project proposes to introduce mandatory television coverage on the time when the TV program will be interrupted if it is interrupted by advertising. In accordance with the decision of the committee approved at the meeting on 16 November 2011, the draft law prepared for the second reading was recommended to be rejected. [[Registration number 6429]] First of all, because the introduction of such a feedback timer does not correspond to the existing world practice in the field of television. By the way, this timer will be on the face of political leaders, including senior officials, during the broadcast of political advertising. The project initiators failed to take into account what is currently in the EU?? There is a directive on audiovisual media services that greatly reduces the demand for advertising in EU countries, which we should be looking for. Instead, the project’s authors are only making the advertising environment worse. And most of all. Setting up a countdown timer requires special equipment. Yet, state television companies, particularly district companies, have not been able to develop a technical base for several years, and the budget does not provide for capital expenditure on their technical equipment. Infringements of legislation lead to the withdrawal of licences, and as a result, the adoption of this legislation is the most damaging to state television channels. In view of the above, the committee decided on the need to reject the bill. However, the committee understood that the bill would call for discussion. So I did my job and in preparing a comparative table for second reading by rejecting some of the changes registered that go against the requirements of Article 116 of the Rules and proposing a more or less acceptable and legally acceptable version of the rule, understanding that it is not viable in practice. So I ask you to support the committee's decision to reject the bill. And we're being supported by a State-of-the-art radiocommitt.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u40	Honorable National MPs. No, it's a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u41	It's a second reading. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there are two proposals for his rejection. But we understood that he would call a discussion, so the committee prepared a table for the second reading. Thus, we can either follow the amendments or reject them immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have such a situation that the committee has considered the proposals that have come. All these suggestions he rejected. And based on this situation, and taking into account other normative acts, he proposes to reject this bill. So let's do it this way. I'll be the first to put a motion for a rejection committee to vote. If she doesn't get support, then we're going to be looking at a second-reading bill, which is to analyze all the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u43	About what? So it's regular, what's the offer? I'm the one voting the committee, and if not, we'll move on. And the amendments, if we don't reject the law, we'll go with the amendments, Yuri Anatolyevich. If the committee proposes, the committee's proposal shall be put to the vote first. That's why I'm putting to the vote a motion for a committee to reject the draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on how late the TV program will end]] [[Registration number 6429]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:35:29]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Let's move on to a second-reading draft. Please, 1st Amendment, are you insisting on it? I can't see. Yuri Carmazin. Is it? Microphone, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the 1st Amendment of Krutz. 2 correction of Carmazin is included. The 3rd Amendment of the Crucifixion. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 4 Corrections to Condratuk included. No warning? None. The 5th Amendment of Cruise is taken into account in another edition. Carthage is included in a different edition. Troika, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u44	Dear National Deputies! We sent this bill to the committee twice by constitutional majority. The change and the small, the screen should be the time when the commercial ends and all. Each viewer has the right to take advantage of this time, whether to watch for 20 minutes or 30 minutes of sagas about linings, odysseys about diapers, and others, or to do something more normal. Unfortunately, I find that today the television advertising industry has won, and the committee, and unfortunately, the legal office. Because the conclusion of the legal system is fundamentally against the scientific and scientific administration, the conclusion. And that's why I'm asking very much for this bill to pass, because today it's on time and, most importantly, we're at our meetings, it's the first question from our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u45	Are you going to talk or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u46	That's how your correction is edited. Is she good for you? Thank you. Strange. Edited correction. Tereshuk. Rejected amendment. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Just a minute. 10th. Tereshuk. Don't insist. Bondarev. 11th Amendment. Don't insist. Carmazine. Your amendment, what's the sixth, huh? Please, it's Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u47	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you, I am addressing the leaders of the majority and of all the citizens who are sitting here. For the first time in years, this bill has stopped at least a little bit of the imagination that is now happening. He's only obliged to do one thing, write down when it's time for a break in advertising so people don't get nervous and shout, you know, it's in people's interests. And everyone goes to the polls, and you see that in people's interests. Why the other forces on the committee won, I don't know. That is why I would like to propose that we support these amendments fully and adopt this bill. He needs it, he's small, but he calms down Ukrainian citizens who are just tired of the commercial. Let them watch it, but they have a choice of someone who can turn it on in ten minutes when the stupid commercial ends.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u48	The offer is understood. The desire to accept this law. We've been through some repairs. Olena Konstantinovna, please, your latest offer or final offer, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u49	The latest suggestions may be that it is clear that ads are not as popular as members of the national community, so I ask you to respond with understanding. But nevertheless, just the bill in question is not going to work in principle within the radio company, especially within the state, municipal, district. Because they have no funds, not all state - owned companies even have computer equipment. State television companies, you can ask the head of the Derteradio, he'll give you the answers to these questions. In principle, the committee came from a professional point of view, not from the popular one on the Supreme Council, in the walls of the Supreme Council. So I ask you to support the committee's position to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an offer. What's your problem? Landik, please. We've all gone through the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u51	Thank you. I have the answer to Carmazin when he says the committee is here. As a member of the committee, I'll tell you, we had a mass of requests, tears of requests from all the regional television companies, they're eating the endings, and we're trying to get them to hang up some very expensive equipment. And it changes over the course of the day several times. How can you change it in advance without knowing how many seconds it will go. But that's not the main thing: there is no control over advertising on all central channels, from 20 minutes and above of uninterrupted advertising, which is prohibited by law. This is where our MPs should be with you, controlling and punishing over advertising. And they're punishing some local television company for over 12 seconds. And there are examples. That's what we have to fight with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u52	Thank you. True, it has not been possible for the committee to offer a decision on how to punish those who do not comply with the law. You're on the committee, right? Work. Dear colleagues, work. I'm voting on a second reading proposal and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[on how late the TV program will end]] [[Registration number 6429]] Please vote. [[16:42:13]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The bill was rejected. Region Party 18, "BUT - Fatherland" - 76, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 26, communists - 24, People's Party - 20, "Reforms for the Future" - 17, non-factional - 8. A draft Law on the organization and conduct of peace measures is being announced for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has prepared, well, would you say, the head of the committee? Please. The chairman of the committee, Oleg Zarubinski, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u53	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, in his own time the bill on the order of the organization and the holding of peaceful meetings was submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council subject of the legislative initiative is clearly imperfect – it is true. [[No. 2450]] At the same time, our committee, aware of the importance and relevance and the need to address the legislative issues of the constitutional right to freedom of peaceful meetings, recommended that it be accepted in the first reading, with emphasis on the need for its very substantial work. As you will recall, all previous attempts by law enforcement entities in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for several reasons, I have not made a mistake, but several calls regarding the settlement of these issues have not found support in the Hall for various reasons. At the same time, the adoption of this law is an integral part of the approximation of Ukrainian legislation to European standards. In the drafting of the bill, the working group worked on nearly 200 proposals by legal entities, most of which were taken into account. The bill has undergone significant changes in the part of bringing it into line with international standards: the guiding principles of freedom of peaceful assembly, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the founding speaker of freedom, and so forth. In May 2010, a bill was tabled by the committee for consideration by the Supreme Council for adoption in a second reading. At the same time, the proposed bill was sent to the Venice Commission for expert evaluation. On March 3, 2012, the Committee officially came to the joint conclusion of the Venice Commission and the OSCE of the Office for Human Rights Democracy regarding the bill. The conclusion concludes with a number of recommendations that we feel should be taken into account in the work. Although improvements are without limits, I am confident that we will be able to achieve the desired result. To date, a working group has been set up on the committee to finalize the bill, taking into account the recommendations and observations of the Venice Commission. The working group was composed of representatives of the President’s Administration, the Cabinet Secretariat, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice. All opportunities for joint constructive work will be given to representatives of public organizations, just like they did before in the committee walls. In view of what has been said, it is appropriate to return to the committee the draft Ukrainian Law on the organization of the organization and the implementation of peaceful measures for further processing and re-reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u54	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to take an understanding view of the committee's proposal. What it is, I want to say again briefly, is. When the committee prepared the bill for second reading, we received a recommendation from the Venice Commission. They appreciate the positive aspects and point to a number of fundamental issues that need to be addressed. In order to speed up the discussion, we need to give this right to the committee to prepare for adoption in the final edition. To that end, we need to send it back for rereading, without considering it in substance. He'll complete it with proposals from the Venice Commission, he'll unify it, and we plan that in the near future, I think in a week, we're going to have the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the grounds that we need to adopt this law. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to return, to re-read the draft Law on the Order of Organizing and Conducting Peace Arrangements. [[Registration number 2450]] Please vote. [[16:47:26]] For 330. Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian State Service Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the marginal age of State service]] Vadim Mikhailovich Petrenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u55	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, was instructed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider at its meeting on 14 March this year the proposal of Ukrainian national deputies for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 23 of the Law on State Service. So this is about the possibility of extending the service age. In the first reading, the bill was adopted by the Supreme Council on February 21, adopted as a basis. The national deputies of Ukraine to the committee by a large majority, the number of votes rejected proposals that were seven, which generally do not apply to the subject matter of the bill or change its concept. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no comment on this bill. The committee concluded to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending article 23 of the State Service Act to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u56	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, Odarchenko, 1st Amendment, does not insist. Viennese, 2nd. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u57	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". I understand that by adopting this bill as a whole in a new paper that we are currently considering, to which we are amending it, is an amendment to specific high-value officials, which is now the time to retire, but, I understand, in the Party of the Lava Reserves, so they were sitting on the XXV meeting, so now, apart from the new footage, they have no one and they want to leave the old footage, which is supposed to make a new policy, especially in the field of economics. And so if we're talking about keeping the footage, we're going to have the least of those footage every year on the lowest chain. And that's why where people sit with a salary of a thousand to a thousand 200 dollars, it would be right to extend their service to 65 years. Therefore, my amendment removes restrictions only for high - ranking officials and places them on everyone, including those of the government officials who are hard to keep down. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u58	2 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[16:50:37]] For-29 Not supported. 3 Amendment Kowzel. Don't insist. Sphinx, 4th. Don't insist. Rubber, 5th. Don't insist. Pancake, 6th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u59	Gentlemen, may I have your attention? The pride of Yuri. The point is, in principle, there may be a sufficiently respectable age in political office, such as Marshal Petten, who was the head of the Vichy government in France. But when it comes to career officials who have enough serious real authority, there is a need for rapid reaction and, most importantly, courage while at this point, people become conservative. In general, they say they're wise, and in fact they're conservative and they're not inclined to make decisions. That is, if you gentlemen want to be reformed, you can't hold people who are old enough, you have to put younger people there. Otherwise, I don't believe you want to reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u60	6 The amendment of Hanushka shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:52:08]] For-48 Not supported. Odarchenko, 7 repairs? Don't insist. So we've been through all the adjustments. But, dear colleagues, I also pay attention to the committee. Reporter, please return. The second read edit does not match the first read edit. We haven't made any adjustments to you. No amendments to the committee have been taken into account. Therefore, please explain why in the right - hand section of the column, the law that is being voted on, has changed the first part.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u61	Thank you. It's a technical amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u62	It's not a technical amendment. Still, it should have been counted by someone, or someone should have brought it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u63	The committee voted in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u64	On what basis?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u65	The author is a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u66	There is no such thing in the Constitution or in the law. That's the first one. And the others. Look at the table: None of the amendments are included, i.e. no one has made such an amendment. On what basis did you falsify the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u67	I don't think it's a forgery. I think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u68	This is a falsification because you've prepared a falsified table.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u69	The point is, in the Ukrainian State Service Act, there's a rule: "encouragement of the frontier age of service," and in the first edition, 65 years, there's no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u70	Who is the author of this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u71	The author is a committee member.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u72	Where is it written in the table? Dear colleagues, I then put to the vote the proposal to vote in the first reading and in the law as a whole. Please vote. [[16:54:27]] For-200 Dear colleagues! [[Applause]] Don't touch it! I'll explain again what's the point. Listen, please. And thank you, including the Blackwolf, who paid attention to it. When we voted on the law, we agreed that once they had reached 65 years of age by their consent. Now on the right-hand side of the column came out, "after they reached the age of service." But no one has ever made such a correction. The committee rejected all the amendments that had been made. So this is a forged right column. That's why I'm voting to accept the first reading. We've established 65 years of age. I don't see any problem here. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please support. [[16:55:39]] For 252 We're back. So, dear fellows, I repeat. The law has "65 years." We don't have to think of anything. The age limit is 65 years. That's why I'm voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the second reading, nothing is discussed, Easy! It's time to know the Rules! I'll take the vote in the first reading. Please be supportive. [[16:56:17]] For 255 Thank you. The law was adopted in the first reading. I point out to committee committees and committee secretariats that in such cases we will use administrative punishment for those who commit such forgery. If it's harder for the deputies to apply it, we'll do it for those who prepare the table in the Secretariat. Yes, Your Honor, we should now listen to Bill 9634, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, but also the Cabinet of Ministers in the person of First Deputy Prime Minister Horoshkowski, and the head of the committee. and the committee with the signature of the executive responsibility of the committee of Osika in relation to the need to reconcile the situation with the General Legal Authority and the additional reconciliation requests that the matter be postponed. I'm putting this motion to a vote: to postpone the consideration of Bill 9634. Please vote. [[16:57:41]] For 266 Thank you, the discussion has been postponed. I ask the committee to prepare it if possible for next week, because there are questions about government purchases. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider the draft decrees for the renaming of the locations. I propose that we proceed in such a way that we consider drafts 9774, 9775, 9776 by means of a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. [[16:58:35]] For 231 Thank you, supported. And there's another proposal from the profile committee, and I suggest we agree on it, that we listen to a report from the profile committee on all of these bills, one report, we discuss, and then we vote on each of them. That's why I'm here. Who do we have here? Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Sinchenko Viktor Mikolayovich. Demchisten? Please, Demčišen Vasil Vasilovic, reports on Bill 9774, 9775, 9776 – the draft Orders on the Rename of Human Settlements. And then we vote separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u73	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Ravenna District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the change of name of the village of the Ukrainian Bilogir region, the village of Kyzilivka of Simferopol district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the village of Lidava Zdolbuni district of the Plain region. The renaming of the sites in question was initiated by residents because, over the years, official documents, birth certificates, citizens' passports, State acts to land, technical passports to buildings, civil law agreements and so on, names that did not correspond to the official calculation of the administrative and territorial units of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the province of Rivena. As a result, people are deprived of the possibility of entering into civil law agreements, because it raises questions about the legality of property rights, inheritance, grant rights, sales and so on, the suspension of land privatization. In doing so, the redesign of all legal instruments with names officially used will require significant material costs for citizens and businesses, institutions, organizations. The question of the renaming of these locations is supported by local referendums and general assemblies of citizens, in accordance with current legislation, reviewed and supported by local councils. According to a review by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. Our committee adopted the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the village of the Ukrainian Biologic Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea should be renamed the village of Kyzilivka, the village of Simferopol district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the village of Lidava of the Urven village council of the Ddolbunov district of the Plain region.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u74	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u75	Please support our decision. Thank you. It's chilly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u76	Thank you. Lidava is Lidava. Dear colleagues! Thank you. Have a seat, please. I think it's clear. Let's vote each. Besides Yavorowski, who else insists on speaking? Sign up then. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, of course, it's not about now that, let's say, there's some argument not to accept it. I want to talk about something else. The Society, Crimea, is a resort peninsula. When you go to Crimea, remember, Tilvoy, Garmatny, Stabney, I have the impression that after you evicted the Crimean Tatars, some half-lettered chief was sitting there sucking these names out of his finger that are walking all over Crimea today. So obviously we have to think about whether there's a Crimean Tatar color in there, and even these villages once have Crimean Tatar names. Because of this, I say again, it will have to come back because it literally disgraces the same Crimea. I say again, people, especially foreigners, can't understand anything. Is that, like, a headquarters peninsula or an island for military training or something? As a result, it is likely that in time it will be necessary to return. I would ask the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to return to this question and not be afraid to return the historical names of the Crimean Tatars. It's unique, and it's really interesting for every and every foreign person, even the people, the tourists and the resters who will come. I think we should do this and not be afraid of it. Because these names, once again, are Tankvoy, Tilvoy, Colonel and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u78	Yes, dear colleagues, it's a little bit like that, but it's not like that, because we're discussing specific villages, not at all. Vladimir Alexanderovich, I know you can tell me everything you know, but it's a little bit different. Because you've been acting out of the question. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the decision to rename the village of Ukraine, the Biological Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Registration number of Decree 9774]] Please vote. [[17:04:43]] For 293 Decision taken. I am voting on a decision to rename the village of Kyzilivka Simferopol district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which will be called the village of Kizilov. Please vote. [[17:05:14]] For 316 It's been decided. And we're voting on a motion for a decree to rename the village of Lidov Zdolbunovsky district of the Plain region. [[Bill number 9776]] If we vote, the village will be called Lidavavo. Please vote. [[17:05:46]] For 326 Thank you. It's been decided. We are considering a draft Decision on the amendment and establishment of the boundaries of the city of Barwinkovo Barwinkowski district of Kharkiv district Reported to Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Sinchenko Viktor Mikolajovic. [[Registration number 10048]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich! People MPs! The Kharkiv District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with information on the change and establishment of the border between the city of Barwinkovo and the region of Kharkiv. The project proposes to increase the area of the city of Barwinkow by 348 hectares of land at the expense of 181 acres [181 ha] of land in the Barwink City Council, 107 hectares of land in the Podolów Rural Council, 43 hectares of land in the Illyshiv Rural Council, 12 acres [12 ha] of land in the Bogodarov Rural Council, 4 hectares [4 ha] of land in the Husarov Rural Council of the Barwink region. At the same time, out of 5 hectares of land in the Barwink City Council's knowledge, it is proposed to transfer: 3 hectares of land to the Ilchis Rural Council; 0.8 hectares of land to the Podolów Rural Council; 0.7 hectares of land to the Bogodora Rural Council; 0.5 hectares of land to the Grigorov Rural Council of the Barwink Region. Thus, taking into account the existing area of the city, which is 1,000 acres [1,000 ha], after the project changes, the total area of the city will be 2,000 acres [210 ha]. On the land plots that are planned to be included within the city are: existing housing and industrial construction, REM, AZS, mill, incubator, treatment facilities, a complex of central watersheds with active wells and security zones, rest zones, and cemetery. The question of the change and establishment of the boundaries of the city of Barwinkow Kharkiv Region has been considered and supported by Husarivsk, Iljivsk, Bogodarovsk, Podolovska Rural Councils, Barbinkovsk City, Barwinksk District, Kharkiv District Councils and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy, and Land Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u80	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Besides Hanuchukhuk, no one insists? Pancake, please, microphone and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u81	Gentlemen, one more time, we are discussing a matter that, in general, is strangely considered by such an important body. So it's time for us to decide that there should be a law that votes on the boundaries of an administrator. And maybe even in this room vote all the boundaries of admin, make one law as it is done, and end it at the same time. Because what you're doing is you know what there is to hear about the corruption of the transition of these lands. If we vote on the boundaries of administrators, it's still involved in the concept of "a plan for the use of the land of administrators" where all issues of all types of land will be defined. And after that, the transition from one use to another will be followed by the decision of the appropriate shells, which is quite appropriate. Because right now we're kind of like if, well, I don't want to say that word, but none of you professionally can say, and what is there that requires a decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine? So let's just make a decision so that we don't have to worry about these issues anymore. I'm ready to help prepare a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u82	Thank you. Discussion. The faction has already come out, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. From the faction, because it's a reduced procedure. I'm voting on a decree to change the boundaries of the city of Barwinkow, the Barwink district of Kharkiv. [[Registration number 10048]] Please vote. [[17:10:42]] For 268. Thank you. It's been decided. We are considering the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Creating Ukraine's enabling conditions for the development of the software industry". [[Registration number 10130]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:11:17]] For 227 Supported. Please, I'm smoking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, on December 14, 2011, a parliamentary hearing was held on the theme "Creating Ukraine's enabling environment for the development of the software industry." These hearings were caused by existing problems in building an information society, and above all, by problems in the area of software. Thanks to its features, the programming industry has found itself at the heart of the process of globalizing the world economy. Thus, the formation of a domestic software industry in the form that meets modern requirements requires special measures and the support of the state. It was at this very point of view that this issue was discussed, which brought together a very large number of participants. In the proposed parliamentary recommendations, the committee has systematized and taken into account proposals made by national deputies, central and local executives, scientists, educators, and business representatives. They are aimed at improving the legislative framework in the field of information technology and software, introducing state support and an effective system of legal protection and development of the software industry, preparing scientific and educational personnel for IT technologies, and improving the public administration of information processes in Ukraine. The Committee on Science and Education recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the proposed drafts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Creating Ukraine's Qualifying Conditions for the Development of the Software Industry" on the basis and as a whole. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u84	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? I'm voting on the Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on "Creating Ukraine to a favourable environment for development.".. Sign up for the performance. Please, Yavorowski. Get ready for Mutza.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u85	I ask you to convey the word to a great specialist in this regard, Teriochin Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u86	Please, Teryohin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u87	Thank you very much. Yesterday was a meeting of the Committee on Finance, Banking, there, taxes, and more. There was a project. In this regard, there was a very unpleasant conflict between the Communist factions and the Party of the Regions. The theory was simple, the theory was simple. I'm sorry, don't interrupt me. That the younger Janukovic and some Communist factions wrote that in order for what was written in the decree to have to be released from all taxes forever. Yesterday it ended with a huge scandal at the Committee on Financial, Banking, and Tax Policy. So let's not make any decisions right now. And after this project, I think Mr. Kzarykov reported this project yesterday, so let's make a separate decision. I specifically said that I had named Mr. Kzarow so that if he wanted to, he would have made some comments on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u88	Please, Chechet's Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The project is proposed to recommend, I reiterate, recommending that the President of Ukraine improve the management and coordination of the activities of the central executive bodies in the field of information and software. We believe that the proposal is quite mandatory with regard to the head of state and needs correction. We propose to correct, soften this proposal to the head of the state so that it does not appear to be an imperative form and support this, this draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u90	Yes, please, 1 minute, Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u91	Well, we recommend that we support this draft regulation, of course, because it is sufficiently consistent steps that will allow the entire industry to be removed from the shadows and probably in 20 years it will be the only fact that the whole industry will have normal working conditions. Well, about yesterday's committee, I'll say, there was a working moment there, we'll be sure to vote next Wednesday, we'll take down all the disagreements and, accordingly, I'm sure, at this session, we'll adopt the law on second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't know about you, but I was a participant in these parliamentary hearings and there were really talked about, and rightly said that these are breakthrough technologies and we need to pay attention to them. I would like to support the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Creating Ukraine's enabling conditions for the development of the software industry". [[Registration number 10130]] Please vote. [[17:18:29]] For 268. It's been decided. Let's move on to the section entitled "Review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine." We are considering the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land on Simplification of the Procedure for the Provision of Land Areas for Nadra-related Needs, with the President's proposals of January 10th. [[Registration number 8209]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:19:13]] For 206 Thank you. Please report to the President of the Supreme Council, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u93	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorary voters, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council on 22 December 2011, the Act on the Amendment to Article 151 of the 3-miel Code of Ukraine on the simplified procedure for the granting of land for the purposes of the use of nadras cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. [[Registration number 8209]] The law provides for the settlement of land removals for the needs associated with the use of nadram, according to the special permits or mining and the placement and maintenance of facilities related to the extraction of useful fossils. The proposed changes are not consistent: first, with the Constitution of Ukraine, because they will create risks of violating the rights of private landowners, as well as non-compliance with constitutional guarantees of privacy rights, namely articles 13 and 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine; secondly, with the Law on Land Disposal, Other Real Estate Objects, which are located in private property, for social needs or for social purposes; and secondly, with the Law on Land Disposal, the proposed standards apply a much broader scope of the list of grounds that give the right to purchase land for social needs; thirdly, with the Code on Resource: Extraction of Useful Foals is only one of the types of use of the dams alongside geological research, construction and exploitation of land from land. And so when we use the law of the general concept, it's not appropriate to mention just one of its ingredients. This is about article 14. And fourth. With the Earth Codex, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u94	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. Have a seat, please. Thank you. Two minutes, please be advised. Associated with the deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Bebezenko Valerij Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! On December 22, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land on Simplification of the Procedure for the Provision of Land Areas for the Use of Nadras, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine taken into account. The law, aimed at the signature of the President of Ukraine, was re-returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the proposal to reject the law. The President notes that in the event that the law came into force, there will be a conflict between the Ukrainian Law "On Disposal of Lands, Other Real Estate Property Locations, Private Property for Social Needs or Reasons for Social Needs", which sets out a comprehensive list of the grounds for estrangement of land for social needs, and the Land Code of Ukraine, to which the proposed change is made and which determines only the manner in which the issues associated with such alienation are reconciled. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers it appropriate to support the President's proposal and reject this bill, i.e. veto. In view of the above, the Committee proposes to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it accept the proposals of the President of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 December 2011 on the amendment of article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land on simplifying the procedure for the granting of land for the needs related to the use of nagrass should be rejected. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u96	Yes, thank you. Besides Terhochin, others insist on discussing it? Then sign up, please. Please, Yavorowski. Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u97	Bondarenkos!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u98	Bondarenko. Bondarenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u99	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. This law, which returns twice, shows that in the context of the Party of Regions, which dominates the bill voting here, there are serious lobbyist forces that extend the bill solely within their interests, forgetting that there are citizens, there are their property rights, there is their property, which is located in areas that they want to exploit and send all the funds made in Ukraine to Cyprus. So today, of course, this Party of Regions is making the most of these laws, because no one's been reviewing the laws in this room for a long time. They're focused on the wave of one person's hand, and that hand, if you'll excuse me, without even knowing anything, gets the team. And just as there's a cross or a minus there, it's sneezing. That is why all of us today are part of the great lobbyist spectacle. One act ends today. The lobbyists didn't make it. And a lot of people do. Today’s Lobby Laws. They were voted yesterday. The OSBB Act, which was voted here, is totally unsignable because it violates citizens' rights to land, to property that is in their house. But it's stretched by lobbyists who want to rent a house and then yell at everything that's inside it, including the ground for themselves. So I would like to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to the fact that this law, which is being rejected today, has been lost in its own time. And so dozens of laws. This Supreme Council in such a composition of the majority, which is, works exclusively for itself. And this bill is definitely going to be rejected, and a lot of people are jumping, and they're acting for the regionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u100	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Matchuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u101	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you know, we have such a paradoxical situation in the state right now. Some, on the other hand, are asking for a license to acquire useful fossils, to develop nadr, and to apply to the State. The state's charging him for this license and the bill is small, it could be a million, two million, three million dollars, not oil, not gas, not gold, not diamonds. The language is sand, clay, building stone, chalk. Is a natural or legal person buying this license in the state paying the costs, and what does it get after that? Do you think she gets the right to acquire, do you think she gets the opportunity to start or continue her business? He's getting a problem. He gets the problem, since free land that would have no forest or land that would have been plowed, or there would have been no cities, pastures, or anything like that in Ukraine is virtually impossible. So, and I think it's the responsibility of the state not to engage in shullerism, but by selling licenses, to create conditions so that whoever put money into a license that he bought into the state and thus filled Ukraine's budget in part would be given the opportunity to give new jobs and continue to fill Ukraine's budget. Today's corruption scheme works: first with corruption, you have to buy a license and then with great corruption try to implement that license. We need to simplify the order and in this sense I do not agree with the veto offered by the President of Ukraine. Thank you. I suggest you don't support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u102	Question completed. I'm voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 151 of the Ukrainian Land Code on Simplification of Landplacement Procedures for Nadra Use. [[Registration number 8209]] Please vote. [[17:28:40]] For 258. The President's proposal is supported. The law is rejected. We are considering the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine with proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[on regulatory acts]] [[Registration number 8309]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. For – 217 Supported. Report by President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, please. Prepare Traduk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u103	Dear voters, dear colleagues! On December 22, 2011, the Supreme Council adopted the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the sphere of ecology and natural resources with regard to the granting of documents of a permissive nature, registration number 8617. According to the head of State, this law cannot be signed for such reasons. First, the proposed amendments to the Water Code and the basic laws address the issue of the establishment of the territorial bodies of the central executive body on environmental issues and natural resources and the special authorized central executive body on health issues, which is not in line with the constitutional principles of the State executive body. This is article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The need for the establishment of the territorial authorities of the Ministry, its central executive body, is determined by the President of Ukraine when approving the position of the relevant body, not by the Supreme Council by the adoption of the law. The current regulations on the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Health do not provide for the establishment of territorial bodies of these ministries. Secondly, the introduction of new documents of a permissive nature in water use does not correspond to the government's policy of deregulation of economic activity. Dear colleagues, there are still a number of arguments that prevent the President of Ukraine from signing this law, so he proposes to support his proposal to reject the bill. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u104	Thank you. Yuri Romanovich, please tell me what law you were talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, I reported Bill 8617.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u106	So, Yuri Romanovich, go back to Law 8309. You have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to you that you also support the President's proposal under Bill 8309. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u108	Thank you. The head's reporting. The President's argument was broader than the reporter could say. Read it, don't be lazy. According to a report by the head of the State Building Committee and local self - government committee, Traidok Mikola Fedorovic. The registration number of Bill 8309 is about local self-government in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I'll report on Bill 8309, please. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 8 February 2012 considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on Regulatory Acts, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 9 December 2011 and returned by President Janukovič to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for review in accordance with part two of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee has carefully considered the arguments of the President of Ukraine and has drawn the attention of the people's deputies that the law does not, in fact, remove from the legislative field any procedure for the adoption by the authorities of local self-government of regulatory acts. They all remained in the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. That is also the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. He only excludes from the text of the Ukrainian Law "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine" unnecessary declarant references to the above-mentioned law, which fully corresponds to the principles of design adopted in Ukraine. The Committee insists that the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine continue to be a basic law and a comprehensive and legal regulator in the field of local self-government and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 135, part 1, 2 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, not to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the adopted Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and to re-adopt the prescribed law in general. [[on regulatory acts]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u110	Thank you. Let's sign up for the performance. Teryohin, please. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u111	Good evening, dear fellows! Look, in committee theory, it's absolutely right to look at the proposals of the President's Administration that were prepared for the President's signature, and they don't apply to the content of this law. The content is simple, it should be excluded from all acts that are used locally, those that duplicate, or acts of central legislation, or local acts duplicate. What did the president offer us? This law, for one reason, is sure that the more normative acts are at the local level, the more bribes are to be taken. But I would like to remind you that President Janukovic is opposed to increasing corruption and is in favour of reducing corruption. This requires, paradoxically, taking and overcoming the veto at Mr. Yanukovich’s offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u112	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u113	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see how we're dealing with issues today. The first question is the veto report on Law 8617, and then, by the way, the President says there's a lot of things that he wrote at 8309, and a dot with a report. Dear Adam Ivanovich, in my opinion, is irresponsible, absolutely irresponsible. It's not just about the President, it's about disrespect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These laws have to be reported separately, and we've spent time on them. And I want to bring you back to your comments, to the conclusions of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which by law is the last, if this is the case, because this is the limitation and our rights as national deputies, the honourable Adam Ivanovich, for which you have to control so that our rights are not restricted. Under Law 8309, where we wanted to improve the fight against corruption and reduce the various duplications of other laws. This law needs to be re-adopted and the President's veto rejected. Today, I think the Supreme Council has shown a pattern of democracy when it rejected a candidate proposed by a majority to serve as an ombudsman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u114	Yuri Anatolyovich, thank you. Use your advice either on the subject or sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u115	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to give you another piece of advice. Do not review the performances of the national deputies, for you are the same as all other national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u116	Yuri Anatolyevich, by subject. You made a note to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u117	I made a note to you because you've halved my time. Now with regard to another Act amending certain legislative acts in connection with the optimization of the functions of the central executive body in the sphere of ecology and natural resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u118	This will be another question, Yuri Anatoliyovich, this will be another question, you'll have the opportunity to speak. Well, there's been a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u119	Then I'm against 8,309 contentment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u120	Right. Question completed. I am betting on the President's motion to reject the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8309]] Please vote. [[17:39:28]] For 239. Decision taken. We are considering the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act on the Declaration Principle with proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8388]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[17:40:03]] For 224 Supported. Report by Yuri Miroshnichenko. Michael Schershun will report. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u121	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to respond to the feedback of the previous speaker on the incomplete report. The point is that we're with you to limit the time of my report when we're defining a reduced procedure. So I'm forced to invest in two minutes with a fairly thorough report on the President's veto. Thank you. Thus, honourable voters, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council on 20 December 2011, the Fire Safety Act on the Declaration principle cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. [[Registration number 8388]] According to the head of state, the law has a number of observations. In particular, proposed changes under which newly created enterprises belonging to the category of fire - resistant entities are entitled to carry out their activities under the terms of voluntary liability insurance contracts to third parties. The law provides that such an assessment and the preparation of a conclusion on the fire control status of an enterprise or a place near the owners who have obtained a licence to carry out such an assessment will also be possible by the authorities of the state fire control. Such changes can provoke different meanings of the conclusion given by different subjects. In general, the President believes that this law does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and does not meet the principles of State protection of competition for entrepreneurial activities. The president proposes to reject this law. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u122	Thank you. Mikola Haritonovich Shershun is from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u123	Honourable National MPs invited to the Supreme Council of Ukraine have submitted proposals by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 10 on Fire Safety on the Declaration Principle. The purpose of the adoption of the law was to carry out legislation on fire safety in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. The President of Ukraine has made a number of comments to the law and proposes the Ukrainian Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act to reject. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. National deputies of Ukraine decided on 8 February 2012 to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and the Act of Ukraine to amend article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. [[on the declarant principle]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u124	Yes, other than Arjevitin, do others insist? They're desirable. Let's sign up. Yes, Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u125	..to pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u126	Stanislaw Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the author of this bill, Laupin Kseniya Mikhailovna, has made very good proposals. And when we looked at it in the hall, you probably supported it, you realized that these were really the right proposals of Kseniya for this bill. I was a short time deputy minister of the MNP, and after reading this conclusion, I felt that I had not fully understood the three degrees that existed in these fire-threatening options. Ms. Xenia made a proposal for the third, well, lowest level of protection, and I think her proposal was very good to improve the conditions for the newly created enterprises themselves. At the same time, Leapin Xeniah offered not only to deprive them, but also to allow the company to work and then to do certain things while working. Among them, she suggested that a voluntary liability insurance agreement should be made against third parties. It is a good suggestion not to avoid businesses from the demands they make. Next, Mrs. Lapina also suggested that, in order to obtain a previous permit, permission would be required, i.e. the conclusion of the fire situation of this enterprise, the conclusion of the organization that does so, i.e. once again, the organizations that are part of the MCS or the fire department, or those enterprises that have the right license. I think it was a very good suggestion from Liapina's deputy to improve management conditions, especially for newly created enterprises. That is why I propose not to support the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u128	Yes, I've come to realize that Terjehochin is passing Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u129	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, if Ukrainian citizens looked at today's agenda, they'd find 11 interesting issues coming together, that's what we're looking at. These are problems related to the fact that our only authority in the hands of the President with a strong hand that governs Kabmin, the Supreme Council, the Prosecutor’s Office, the courts, the Constitutional Court, including, and the BSS, and all others, promises laws that have been passed in this room by its own majority. So tell me, is this the hammer that throws in empty air dozens of laws that then come into the administration, then come back? Now we're taking the day as if by voting for the hand of a single conductor, then this conductor raises the same arm, promising what he recently raised to be accepted. So tell me, is that normal or not? So I'd like everyone to know that today the Supreme Council has turned into an unnecessary addition to the Presidential Administration, but there's some kind of misunderstanding going on. Lutkovska, who was already, saw herself as an ombudsman, now sitting there, smoking on the second floor, crying, anything else. You tell me, please, why are you gathering this organ, why are we paying it so much money if there's a lobbying and then a reverse lobbying? Whoever comes to the President more or less will be given a decision. I would like the electorate to point out that today's Supreme Council has a majority that approves absolutely unnecessary laws for society. Where you're talking about shoplifting, where you're talking about pocketing, about offshore Cyprus, you're the only one here, you don't want to take the Cyprus offshore. And then we pound the air in the air. So this is a completely abnormal phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u130	Question completed. I'm voting on the President's motion to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act. [[Bill number 8388]] Please vote. [[17:48:49]] For 261 Thank you. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u131	You can if you don't want to watch for yourself. Let's see the factions. The Party of Regions – 182, Fatherland did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 2, Communists – 25, National Party – 20, Reforms for the Future – 19, non-fractional – 13. Let us consider the following questions: Ukraine's Law on Change to Ukraine's Land and Forest Codes for Conservation of Forests, with proposals from the President. [[Bill 8489 registration number]] There's an offer to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:49:41]] For 227 Supported. Reported by President Yuri Miroshnichenko. Prepare Shershun. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u132	Dear voters, dear colleagues! On 22 December 2011, the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Act on Change to the Ukrainian Forest and Forest Codes for Conservation of Forests. [[Registration number 8489]] The law proposes to redistribute powers between executive authorities of different levels in the field of forest management for the benefit of central executive authorities, to extend the powers of central executive authorities in the area indicated by authority of local self-government According to the head of state, this law has raised a number of observations. The proposed changes deprive rural, rural, city councils of the benefits of the Cabinet of Ministers of the management of forests within the boundaries of the population before the delimitation of state and municipal property. Thus, the government is authorized to manage municipal property that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, under which "earth and other natural resources are owned by territorial communities of villages, villages and cities." [[What forests are like]] This is article 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And the second. Territorial communities manage property that is in communal property. This is the 143rd article of the Constitution. Under such circumstances, the law can narrow down the rights of local self - government authorities in resolving the issue of authority by their property. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u133	Thank you. The committee is Mikola Haritonovich Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u134	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! The Environmental Policy Committee of 8 February 2012 will consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Supreme Council for the Law on Change in the Forest and Land Codes for Conservation of Forests. The President of Ukraine disagrees with the provisions of the law on the deprivation of rural, rural, city councils to manage forests within populated areas prior to the delimitation of state and municipal property and believes that such an approach violates the Constitution of Ukraine and narrows the rights of self-government and proposes paragraph 11 of paragraph 1 of the first paragraph of the Ukrainian Law on the amendment of Ukraine's Land and Forest Codes for the Conservation of Forests to be excluded. The main scientific and expert management does not see the need to exclude the item, since the exclusion from the authority of local self-government of the right to manage forests within the population is a temporary measure, until the delimitation of state and municipal property, which regulates the current situation, in accordance with current legislation, is completed. The Committee agrees with the President's proposals and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the Ukrainian Law on Change to Ukraine's Land and Forest Codes on Forest Conservation in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u135	Thank you. Please sign in. Tischenko Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u136	Please pass on the word of Chago.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u137	Eugene Chago.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u138	Give the word to Jaborov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u139	Yavorowski Wolodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u140	Dear voters, you know, I just want to remind you that the problems of the Ukrainian forest, the problems of the privatization of the forest are on such a periphery, so let's say social attention, is essentially on the ground there, especially on the ground near the big cities. And this has enabled, of course, a colossal abuse that is not. Let's think about this: The president is talking about a narrowing down of authority. local authorities. Maybe there's some kind of radio, but it seems to me that the local authorities themselves make it much easier to do all these devices there and so forth. I'd like to remind you of something else in this discussion. In fact, today, forests in state property are left with, well, literally there are some patches there and so on, the rest of them have already been captured. The worst part is that, of course, today forests are being privatized through shadow schemes. What's it worth to be the Highlander, where our beloved president has made hunting hunts there and so forth? And what's worth, and let's say, is my MP's mail has literally been overrun by letters of activity, of course, of course, the activities of today's chief forestry man, Mr. Sietz, who's causing huge damage to the state, and he's handing out these woods to the right and to the left. And my petitions to the prosecution, and to the prosecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u141	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u142	. The prosecutor's office doesn't have any results. This is huge forest corruption, which is now under the leadership of the Soviets in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u143	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u144	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies, well, it's boring to live: we make decisions, first, second reading, expert conclusions, everything else, then we send to the President, we don't listen to opposition at all. Most people decide, all government decides, all of them decide, all the powers are taken away. It's okay, you're laughing at yourself that your badge is smaller than the one I have on my wrist, and it's already equal to one that no one can even see. And now you agree with everything, committee. Why do you agree? What did the President normally write? He stopped the commercial, which is exactly what the forest agency, which my colleague Yavorowski is talking about, is doing on "5 channels" in a day. In the daytime and in the night, there's advertising. At what cost? Costs of wood cut and exported. How much? I'm asking about the moratorium. Did you miss it on the committee? You don't miss. Look at the woods, we have everything cut out in Carpathians. And look what's in Hungary, look what's in Romania, look what's in Austria, in other countries. There are forests. And this is where everything comes out completely. And then it melts through Bilgorod-Dnistrovski, through other ports, and it goes like this. Because of this, and these changes have been made to make it more difficult for the Kabmin to go through. Now suddenly, there was a violation of the rights of local self - government. So, what can we do to expand so that the High Town District Council can have an impact on Mezigira, on the reserve that once existed and the monks and all of them were, now no one can pass by and even pass by, so can we expand? For this reason, I agree with the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which says we should not agree with the President's conclusion, we should not exclude paragraph 11 of paragraph 1 from the Supreme Council of the Law and you from paragraph 11 of paragraph 1 of the Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u145	Thank you. I'm continuing for 15 minutes. I'll tell you again, I'll tell you something else, you'll be happy to meet the message. I'm voting on the President's first proposal. The committee counted it. Please be supportive. [[17:58:47]] For 237 Supported. I put to the vote to adopt in general, taking into account the President of Ukraine's proposals, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land and Forest Codes. [[on forest conservation]] [[Registration number 8489]] Please vote. [[17:59:17]] For 237 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, perhaps your activity has affected me in such a way that I am in violation of the Rules. In spite of article 134, we began to discuss the President’s veto, which is not discussed, but only a report, a report, and a vote of proposals. That's why anger won't happen again. Questions need to be asked if there is no shorter procedure. We are considering the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in relation to Optimization of the functions of the Central Executive Authority in the sphere of ecology and natural resources for the granting of documents of a permissive nature, as proposed by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8617]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u146	Who has the offer, Adam Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u147	The headman's got it. [[18:00:27]] For 228 Thank you. Supported. Yuri Romanovich, you have already reported this law, we thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u148	Adam Ivanovich, let me actually report it. The President proposes to reject him as one who violates the Constitution. But I would like to draw the attention of our opposition colleagues who have just criticised the President for vetoing the laws of Ukraine. So I want to draw your attention, the President of the Constitution is the guarantor of human and civil rights and freedoms. And in all my speeches, I stress, the legal arguments, primarily the rules of the Constitution that are violated when laws are passed. So very often the argument of opposition is the basis for vetoing. I think it's inappropriate for us to criticize the President for helping to make the laws our best. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u149	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! At the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, on 8 February 2012, consider the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in relation to Optimization of the Functions of the Central Executive Authority in the Field of Ecology and Natural Resources for the Provision of Permitential Documents. The president of Ukraine, after making a number of important remarks, suggests rejecting the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers it appropriate to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The Committee agrees with the proposals of the President of Ukraine and proposes to reject the Ukrainian Supreme Council's proposal to amend certain legislative acts in connection with the optimization of the functions of central executive bodies in the sphere of ecology and natural resources. I've got a few more minutes. Today there is no privatization of forests. Today, the area of state forests is increasing with each year, and there is no need for hysteria. Here's what we need to figure out, and then we need to put it all together. I'm asking you very much because this is the only forest complex that's still holding a pile that's still been stolen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u151	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, I'm putting a motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u152	You promised me, Adam Ivanovich, you promised me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u153	I promised to give Carmazin, but I won't, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u154	Adam Ivanovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u155	Because according to the Rules. Yuri Anatolyovich, I'm sorry, there's no discussion, I missed earlier. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in relation to Optimization of the functions of the Central Executive Authority in the sphere of ecology and natural resources for the granting of documents of a permissive nature. [[Registration number 8617]] Please vote. [[18:04:10]] For 264 A decision has been made. We are considering the Ukrainian Law on Metrology and Metrology with proposals from the President of Ukraine (registration number 8562-1). There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[18:04:39]] For 229 Supported. Report by Yuri Miroshnichenko. Get ready, Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u156	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council adopted the Law on Metrology and Metrology on 22 December 2011. [[Registration number 8562-1]] According to the head of State, this law cannot be signed for such reasons. First, it contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine and the basic legislation on this area. Secondly, since the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade is today the main body in technical regulation and at the same time a special authority in metrology, there is no need to adopt a standard whereby the Ministry agrees with its own legislation on metrology. Thirdly, the law defines the list of means of measuring techniques that are subject to trust, and it is established that trustees are subject to other means provided for by legislation. Thus, Parliament delegates its legislative authority to an authority authorized to issue regulations. Thus, the law preserves an outdated model of state regulation in metrology and goes against international and European instruments and practices in this area. Under these circumstances, my honourable colleagues, please support the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject this bill, more specifically the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u157	Thank you. Reported to the head of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Affairs by Mikhail Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship reviewed the President’s proposals for law. The president proposes to reject the bill, and the committee fully supports the President's proposal. Please support the committee's decision and the President's proposal. And now, literally two theses. First. The President often vetoes laws, as we sometimes adopt poor-quality opposition to the law, and the law is not so. You're just looking for the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] But that's not the main point. And the main point of another is that we have chosen a real national leader, a wise President. And thank you that he is, that when we are wrong, and the opposition is wrong, and we are sometimes, more often, the opposition, the President, as the wise leader bends. Please support the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m1.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the President's motion to reject the Ukrainian Metrology and Metrology Act. [[Registration number 8562-1]] Please vote. [[18:08:12]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. Karoul's got a constitution. Therefore, my dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00.
