ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[09:59:55]] They registered with 250 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, two factions have called for a recess for consultations. After we've completed our consideration of the question, we have to finish our consideration of the question, and I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. Dear colleagues, if you do not know how to proceed, follow the Rules. That's what I do. We need to make a decision on the controversial issue. I would like everyone to be responsible for taking decisions on the draft Law banning narrowing the scope of the use of Ukrainian. The drafters proposed that they should be removed from their consideration of these bills. So I'm voting for a motion to withdraw from the draft law banning narrowing the scope of the use of Ukrainian. [[Registration number 9059, 9059-1]] Please be sure. [[10:01:16]] For 231 Bills are off-limits. The second sentence in accordance with the Rules of Article 114, paragraph 1, on the adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Principles of State Language Policy is put to the vote. [[Registration number 9073]] [[10:01:48]] For 234 The factions, please. Decision taken. Region Party – 187, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 20. Two! Communists 25, People's Party 2, Reforms for the Future 6, non-fractional 12. The proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on preschool education on mother tongue education (registration number 9714) is now put to the vote. The author of the project is Koleschenko and Lutsky. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! I'm sorry. Kolezenko claimed that he was taking it off the table. I'm voting on a motion to withdraw from the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Preschool Education for Language Education. Please vote. [[10:03:01]] For 241 The bill was removed. The proposal to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on preschool education on the organisation of the educational process is now put to the vote. [[9714-1]] Authors: Samoylik, Kurilo, Baranov-Mohortov. Please vote. [[10:03:34]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! There's an offer. Since two factions are calling for a recess, the break will now be announced. But the request: let us take the oath of Vladimir Lanov. No objections? Vladimir Timothyovich, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u2	That's right. The first bill was withdrawn, and the authors suggested that it be withdrawn. I put it to a vote, they took out the bill. Then the second vote was 9073. And the next vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Vladimir Timothy Lanovius on the rostrum. Quiet!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u3	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, please welcome Vladimir Timothy Lanov and wish him health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of two factions: the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, is declared a 30-hour break. It's up to 10 hours, 37 minutes. After the break, the factions come from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, two factions called for a recess. I'm asking for a statement from the factions who took a break. Please, who's going to perform? You don't? Then, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, honorary colleagues spend 30 minutes on Tuesday for the performances of authorized factions. Please sign up for the factions. Names of the national MPs, please. Names of the national MPs, please. The faction will be performed by Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u6	Honorable Members of Parliament! Today is a very difficult and unforgivable day. I have to admit that we failed to win this fight. Yes, there is a temporary victory for the Party of Regions and those who have joined them. But there is a defeat of Ukraine and of the Ukrainian state. The law was passed only in the first reading, and more specifically, the law was not adopted. However, Ukraine knows the names of all who have betrayed the Ukrainian State, who destroys the Ukrainian Constitution, and who opposes Ukraine’s existence as such. You're not the first time in the walls of this Parliament that you've been "pushing" for money, for strength, for no other reason than the laws against Ukraine and the Ukrainians. You've knocked out the red flags, you've decided the same language as the second language of the state. We can tell you very clearly. We know everyone's names. Yes, this Supreme Council betrays the Ukrainian people. You have 234 votes of traitors. There will be no such people in the new composition of the Supreme Council. We will not be able to adopt this law in a second reading. There will be no such law on Russian second language in Ukraine! This fight is not won, but we will win the war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, now speak from the factions. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. Please, your performance. Nadosha will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, dear comrades, I hope that we will never forget who drove the gasoline to the Supreme Council, organized the construction of independence from gasoline and who threatened the entire Ukrainian people with these gasoline trucks. Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! Since 1 June, the Government has resumed payments of compensation for stolen SSR Sberbank contributions. We, the communists, have repeatedly stated that it should not be simply a matter of compensation, but of the full return to investors and their heirs of the savings they have earned, and of the return on inflation, of the interest they have gained in two decades. During the period of the law, only 10 billion were paid to investors, i.e. just over 8 per cent of the amount of debt that is currently 121 billion grivens, with an inflation of about 580 per cent over the period. That is, six bracelets would now have to be placed for a single bracelet in 1996. Thus, given inflation, I am no longer talking about the interest accrued over these years on deposits, the total debt has come close to the mark of 1 trillion bracelets. Thus, the debt owed to State investors is approaching 20,000 bracelets per bundle and paid only a thousand. We Communists, once we claim that the payment of stolen savings is real. Only political will, specific programme and mechanisms for its implementation are needed. We, the communists, have this program. The first and main paragraph is: recognition of tomorrow's contributions by Ukrainian citizens of domestic government debt. In that case, the necessary funds would be budgeted and the payment would be made irrespective of the composition of the Government, and the problem would cease to be the subject of electoral speculation. We also believe that, at the legislative level, 50 per cent of the difference in GDP between last year and this year should be channelled to specially created contributions to the fund. Another additional source should be the State monopoly on a number of products, including alcohol and tobacco. In addition, by adopting the Deluxe Tax Act, a part of it could go towards paying off the debts of investors. Dear voters, the Company's faction warns that the government's luxury bill leaves not only loopholes but yawning holes through which the rich will easily walk away from taxes. For example, it is proposed to place only private persons and the movable and immovable property registered with the company to which the oligarchs own will not be subject to the law. Expensive vehicles are taxed: aircraft, yachts, boats. What are we offering, Communists, and why have our proposals not been taken into account by the Government? We propose, first, to introduce a truly progressive scale of taxation: over-incomes must be over-taxed. This includes world experience by addressing all those who speak very often about European integration. Secondly, a tax should be imposed on passive dividends, royalty and bonuses that exceed, for example, the amount of 100 000 bracelets per year. Thirdly, the estimated value of the acquired property associated with minimum wages should be the basis for determining the amount of the tax. Fourthly, in order to avoid tax evasion through registration of movable and immovable property on the firm, it is necessary to include this tax in the price of the goods in its purchase. Fifth. Introduce an additional collection of elite golf clubs, restaurants and nightclubs. Only then will the luxury tax cease to be a pre-election campaign and become an effective budgeting mechanism. Why is our proposal rejected? Because billionaires and millionaires, who have turned government and parliament into their fathers, will never write laws that prevent them from charging their pockets at the expense of a simple person. Therefore, the time has come for action. It's time to return the country to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u9	Nadesh, faction of the Party of the Regions. Leonid Kojara, please, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next is Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u10	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! After a successful visit by the President of Ukraine to the United States, Ukrainian foreign policy has worked more closely on the Eastern Vector in recent weeks, especially with regard to the visit of Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov to Moscow on 26 May and to Turkmenistan for the purpose of participating in the SND Council of Heads of Government on 29-30 May. For Ukraine today, the diversification of external trade and access to the eastern markets are of great importance. In Europe, the debt crisis is far from over, and the growth in market slowdown is narrowing. Instead, as the prime minister stressed, the economy is being modernised in the SND countries, and large-scale national projects are being implemented. Ukrainian companies, Ukrainian high - tech products, have to find their place in these markets. For example, a country like Turkmenistan ended last year with an increase of 14.7 percent. Up to 30 percent of the Turkmen budget goes to capital investment. The Turkmen leadership discussed Ukraine’s participation in the construction of the Transcassian gas pipeline in ensuring access to Turkmenistan’s natural gas. But Turkmenistan is not only important to us in the field of energy. Ukrainian construction workers working in Turkmenistan have contracts three years ahead. In Ashgabad, the Ukrainian delegation discussed new construction projects, such as the construction of ports, railways, bridges, combined transport corridors. In practice, the implementation of the Interstate Innovation Programme of the GNI countries by 2012 is taking place. It is very important for the Ukrainian economy to participate in projects under this interstate programme. In this context, the next meeting of the SND Government Council in September in Yalta is important. This is a major diplomatic victory in Ukraine. No less important results have been achieved during this time and in Ukrainian-Russian relations, on the basis of the meeting of the Prime Minister of Ukraine with Russian leadership in Moscow and Ashkhabad. I'm just going to briefly list their main results: First. The Russian side is ready to participate in a series of AN-148. The Antonov Concerto can access the technological reconciliations of the relevant two-way agreement. The other one. The Russian side positively resolved the issue of crediting the construction of the 3 and 4 energy clouds of the Hmeln nuclear power plant, but only technical issues remained to be reconciled. Third. Russia’s management has expressed its firm intention to clear up issues that complicate bilateral relations, including sufficient time to resolve the gas contract. And finally, the parties agreed to bring these and other issues to the meeting of the Intergovernmental Ukrainian-Russian Committee on Economic Cooperation, which will take place on June 27th in Donetsk. This will enable the Ukrainian-Russian Interstate Commission to meet effectively at the level of Heads of State and sign a series of relevant agreements. These bilateral arrangements signify a break in our relationship with Russia, signify a qualitatively new stage in their development, and most importantly, they will contribute to the implementation of the important ones for modernizing our economy of high-tech and infrastructure projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u11	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u12	"What is permitted to Jupiter an unsanctioned bull," the ancient Romans reasoned. "What can populace, thank you – again," the Ukrainians say. But here is the problem, and who, in international relations, performs a judicial mission, determines who Jupiter is, who the bull is, who the piper is, and who the thanks are? And the main thing is, where is the criterion? The media of a country with barely the highest level of Islamophobia in Europe, the country in which the movement of the skinheads was born, and from where it spread across a continent where mass collisions on racial grounds are hardly commonplace, where finally from the captain of the national football team remove the captain's connection to racism, the media of this country brand Ukraine as a racist state. Jupiter is allowed everything. And the point is, the authors of these stupid and lying reports can be placed in one line with those heroes who discovered the secret of mutant rats in the Moscow subway. The question is, What will they be inspired to do in Ukraine next time? Cannibal athletics fans, corporate borsch - made meat from European tourists, and uranium stewers. Sadly, stupidity and lying sometimes have no limits. What about the Jupiter countries? And it's full of idols, like on Milka's necklace. This is not where the President takes huge bribes from dictator Gaddafi, and then destroys the latter so that no public court can take place. Is that where the prime minister organizes an orgy with minor prostitutes? It is not there that another prime minister deliberately gossips the entire world over nuclear weapons stockpiles in Iraq, after which mass bloodshed and this country becomes a daily phenomenon. And the recalculation of votes in the presidential election in the deciding state is not suddenly interrupted when it becomes clear that an unwanted candidate is winning. And the former prime minister of the foreign state of the Pacific is not planted there for 12 years. Or is it still there? No, there can't be that! They're Jupiters. And it's a long way off, outside of the imagery, they find Ukraine like this. And they turn it into another object for showmanship, such as a line axis of evil. Because I'm sure they know very well the Bloomberg trust fund's estimate of the probability of 60 percent of the fall of Eurosona in 2013. And they read a statement by the head of the U.S. Federal Reserve, Ben Bernantke, that Washington's not going to save the European Union. They also understand that there is no guarantee that the EU will continue to collect its debts. How, then, can these problems help to create a demonic image of another foreign country? But it is desirable that she do not gnaw too much. For her, super important resolutions can be adopted. It will be something to report to its electorate. This is easier than solving your own problems. What's more, there's nothing special to do. Because drafts of these resolutions come from Ukraine itself. And the longer the anti-Ukrainian campaign continues, the more obvious it will become. Once again, though, there is one practical question. After hundreds of thousands of foreign tourists, cowards, taking part in a football festival in Ukraine, will see for themselves that our people are actually tolerant, kind, hospitable, decent, after all, modern. And when they come home, what will provokers and mass media fairies tell their compatriots then? I'm sure it's like, "Believe us, not your lying eyes." But that's a different story. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u13	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, I would like to begin with a big thank you to the members of the Reformation for the Future faction for letting me speak on two issues. The first question is, this is about my own grief that happened today. I don't know how this happened, but my card voted Bill 9073. I voted against this law, and I want to tell you that my heart is open to anyone, any attempt to even appeal to me against the Ukrainian language. I want to tell you that it is indeed a sad thing that today my name has become one of the 234 deputies. I don't know how it happened. I asked the Head of the Supreme Council to save my reputation, remove from the list those people who voted on my name. I want to tell you, fellow citizens, I am Ukraine's national deputy Vladimir Kaplienko, I swear to you that on second reading, let my hand dry if I vote for this bill 9073. That's the first one. And the second. On behalf of the faction, I would like to say and highlight some of the questions. Today, we talk a lot about what the mind determines. If we move this thesis to the level of economic processes, we could say that the economic situation determines the need for change. Today’s economic difficulties, including Ukraine’s energy independence, the underdevelopment of the state sector in industry, have led to an even greater anti-perspective for Ukraine, a gradual loss of development guidelines for 46 million Ukrainians. The simple question is, where are we going? There is still no definite answer. What is Ukraine's model of two thousand, for example, in the thirtieth year as the final product of today's activities of Parliament, the President and the government? Ukraine’s future model should be an ideological and superior government, not the other way around. We can no longer afford the luxury of swimming in a current where we are driven by inconsistent reforms, a socio-economic and administrative model of the Soviet model, which has been leading us to a breakthrough for 21 years. That is why we, as representatives of the House of Representatives of the Reforms for the Future, consider it a top priority to set up a social model where there would be an appropriate and clearly defined public sector, a renewed thorough planning, a course towards fair competition and the liberalisation of the economy. We are demanding real reforms, and these are the five reforms aimed at self-sustaining the nation with food, goods, technology and population protection. At the same time, let us do our utmost for our conscience. If we're doing land reform, it's not at the expense of poor peasants. If we're starting a housing reform, Ukrainians need to know who and what they're paying for. If we're running a real, not a declarative energy-saving reform, let's start with at least our own energy balance. If we reform the social sphere, it is time to introduce the real second and third levels of pension insurance, public insurance, but such a form does not narrow down the right to health care for every Ukrainian. So wake up, Ukraine! At the time of Reforms for the Future, we call on the President and the government to take the first step towards creating a project office at the Cabinet of Ministers for the management of Ukraine's reform project involving professional project managers whose basic expertise is the implementation of projects, because there are no such professionals in the government. We will be proud of our own state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u15	Yes, we have two other factions who have not exercised the right to speak. Who will speak from factions? You're acting out of faction? The leader of the faction, please, Andrew Kožemiakin. Andriy Anatolyevich, who's going to be the faction? Please. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u16	Dear viewers, distinguished radio audiences, distinguished audiences! Of course, now the most important topic to discuss would be now and the most important issue is what happened a few minutes ago, or a few minutes ago, when a direct, simple, stupid, anti-Ukrainian law was passed in this room, in the sessional room of the Ukrainian Parliament. I'm sure it was the last, last such story from the Party of Regions. [[The last one, I'm underlining it!]] Yes, they were able to resist, break through, shove in the first reading. But believe me, the second reading is not going to be in this session room. It will already be in another country, perhaps in another session hall, but in this session room. There will be no second reading in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no matter how you get pissed or puffed your cheeks. I would like to emphasise that the names of all those who voted in favour of the anti-Ukrainian law, all those who voted against Ukraine, against the Ukrainian nation, against the Ukrainian language, have now been revealed. They'll all be on the list. I would like the Supreme Council of Ukraine to oblige the newspaper Voice of Ukraine to publish the names of all those who have spoken against the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian Supreme Council. I would like to stress that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be the supreme betrayal of Ukraine as long as this so-called majority works here. This majority is temporary, it's been working here for months now, they know it, and that's why she's pissed off about it. I want to emphasize once again that we guarantee this by our presence here. We all guarantee that there will be no second reading in the Supreme Council session hall. We're gonna win this fight, no matter how hard you try. And to talk about whether you can continue working in this session room right now -- well, of course not. I don't think there's anything to do here with you. With those who betray their own people, those who force them to betray those who want to serve Ukraine, but you buy them, push them, rape them. So I'm stressing that we're not going to work with you in the session room right now. So we're leaving the session room and we're going to come back here with the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. For proposals that need a proper response, I ask you to prepare the necessary assignments and letters, Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine Victor Matchuk, Romanyuk Mikoli, who, by the way, has the Jubilee and Cibenka Petra. Please welcome your colleagues, and wish you good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 22 to 25 May 2012. Five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council took place, and 118 issues of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, 26 laws and 23 decrees were passed, 17 bills were passed on the basis, 2 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 2 bills were returned to the committee for further work, 7 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law has been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 1 law has been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of a series of drafts. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Bar and Bar, a new edition, please vote. [[Registration number 10424]] [[11:00:49]] For 228 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges]] [[Registration number 10425]] Dear colleagues, there are some positions that have raised objections to MPs with the authors of this bill. We have every reason to put the bill into the agenda. Please vote. [[11:01:32]] For 229 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the recommended list of structural units of local government administrations]] [[Registration number 10124]] Please vote. [[11:02:04]] For 258. Decision taken. Puts to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Civil Protection Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10294]] Please vote. [[11:02:30.]] For 259. Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized". [[on the public shareholders' association "The Ukrainian State Food and Grain Corporation"]] [[Registration number 10283]] Please vote. [[11:03:09]] For 213 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the characteristics of the conduct of the business of ensuring the functioning of diplomatic representations and consular institutions of foreign states, representing international intergovernmental organizations in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10411]] Please vote. [[11:03:48]] For 261 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Prevention and Anti-Discrimination Act in Ukraine is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10468]] Please vote. [[11:04:19]] For 241 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Notariat. [[on State regulation of notarial activities]] [[Registration number 10364]] Please vote. [[11:04:49]] For 260 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Employment Act. [[Registration numbers: 10497, 10497-1]] Please vote. [[11:05:23]] For 263 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code is put to the vote. [[on how to conduct land trades]] [[Registration numbers: 10231, 10231-1, 10231-2, 10231-3]] Please vote. [[11:06:00]] For 234 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on public regulation in the field of municipal services. [[Registration number 10499]] Please vote. [[11:06:32]] For 233 Decision taken. I am voting on a proposal for a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulatory mechanism and increasing liability in the field of waste management. [[Registration number 10501]] Please vote. [[11:07:07]] For 229 Decision taken. Yes, there is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed to implement projects for environmental investments. [[Green]] [[Registration number 10502]] Please vote. [[11:07:42]] For 231 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing criminal responsibility for cruel treatment of animals]] [[Registration numbers: 10096, 10096-1]] Please vote [[11:08:14]] For-51 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the powers of the Ukrainian State Migration Service]] [[Registration number 10268]] Please vote. [[11:08:46]] For 263 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the conduct of an economic experiment in support of the shipbuilding industry. [[Registration number 10360]] Please vote. [[11:09:16]] For 241 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Building Industry on State support for the marketing of aviation technology for domestic production. [[Registration number 10423]] Please vote. [[11:09:49]] For 262 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending article 22-1 of the Ukrainian Rail Transport Act is put to the vote. [[on the responsibility of carriers carrying out international passenger transport]] [[Registration number 10356]] Please vote. [[11:10:26]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered a section on inclusion in the agenda and a series of drafts. For those whom the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a positive decision, I would like to ask the committees once again to look at those who are ready for us at the evening session to consider those who have a timely talk. A draft law on the technical inventory of immovable property is being announced for consideration. [[Registration numbers: 10286, 10286-1]] The rapporteurs are the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Correspondent is the first Deputy Justice Minister, Emilianov Inna Ivanovna. The question is extremely complex, and I would ask, honourable colleagues, to discuss it in detail, because there are so many references to this point that we can make a balanced decision here. Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u18	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Good afternoon, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to remind you of the history of the origin of this issue. In December last year, the Supreme Council adopted a decision following numerous appeals by the mayors of the cities of Ukraine, various local councils of different levels decided to establish, mandate the Committee on Economic Policy to establish a working group and develop a new bill to address the issue of technical inventory. Our committee has established such a working group, comprising more than 20 persons, including mayors of cities, representatives of local authorities, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the people's deputies of Ukraine. The law was eventually drafted, with the number 10286 signed by its members of the working group, the people's deputies of Ukraine. It was submitted for registration within the deadline set by the Supreme Council until 1 April of this year. A new draft law was then drafted by Kabmin of Ukraine 10286-1. In this case, I act as the author of one of the bills and as a representative of our committee, I get four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u19	You have 10 minutes, so you can talk all you need.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u20	What's the difference between these two bills? And what has built our society and caused disapproval so far? Currently, this function of technical inventory is being performed, as you know, by utilities, by local authorities through utilities. The position and view of Kabmin was that this function should be given any form of property, private, collective, communal, public. And that was the main difference. The opinion of the working group, the mayors of cities, representatives of the councils and representatives of BTI and representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That the function of technical inventory is more than a service to the population, but is a form of control over what is being built, within what boundaries and how it is being built. What does that mean? This means that when we, each of us, a lawyer or a physicist, go to build something, it goes through a certain procedure, it gets the necessary arrangements and visas, and then it starts to build. When it is completed, only one single authority controls the installation of the facility when it is currently installed. Where is it built, within the right boundaries, or within the wrong boundaries? Is the wall thickness correct or wrong? Is it correct or wrong? Are the balconies right or wrong? And all of these streets in cities and settlements, all of these buildings, where their borders are, their size, their reliability, the main thing is security for all the people around them, not only living in these buildings, but also living in neighbouring buildings, it depends on how the technical inventory is properly carried out. But there's another danger. The danger that, given the monopoly on this market, local public authorities are engaged in corruption. And that was to be avoided. This was discussed separately by our working group. And as a result, a bill was born, which I am reporting to you now, on which the function of technical inventory remains in the public authorities. However, when it is carried out, the inventory is severely reduced. That's what I mean. It is meant that BTI will only carry out controls after entry into service of this space. So the primary entry into service, the inventory remains at BTI under this law. Second. If, with the consent of the local authorities, a restructuring of a building was carried out, the initial verification of the introduction into operation of the restructuring must be carried out by a local utility. And third. If complaints by citizens, by legal persons and so on are made, there is an unauthorized violation of the construction law on the subject, then someone must come and check. Decisions on this check are taken by the local authority, but again it checks the municipal technical inventory company BTI. And only one case where BTI checks not as a controller, but as a person who provides services to the population is said to be the owner of the facility itself in the case where it is strictly necessary. Well, for example, when he's bailing on a bank, for example, someone has to look at this room and see how it fits the documentation. For example, when he sold the premises and the buyer wanted to conduct such an examination, he demanded it. The citizen's claim, at his request, is not mandatory, but may, at his request, come to the BTI, apply for it, pay for it, and then it will also be made to him. Three cases of compulsory examination have been received without payment by citizens, and one case is optional, alternative, but with the payment of the applicant who made the statement. In doing so, we wanted to break free from corruption. What is the difference between the bill, the working group of the draft and the bill to the Government of Ukraine? There's only one thing. Everything else is small. It is who specifically can perform such a function. If the draft working group can only do this to a utilities company, both now and prices, the tariffs on this service are set by local councils, no one else, and the money goes to the local budget only, then the Cabinet bill allows both public enterprises and private enterprises and utilities and private entrepreneurs to provide this service. What is our disagreement, the working group, against the law of Kabminov? We believe that it is very dangerous for the State to place control functions in private hands. Similarly, the question of the transfer of control functions to the tax administration, the prosecutor's office and so on into private hands is similar. At the same time, the danger in this case may be far greater than even the risk of the transfer of functions to private hands, such as the tax administration or the prosecutor's office. Why? Imagine a multi-storey building, 24 floors. And a private physicist, an entrepreneur will register it for you, not register it, but check it correctly, it's not built properly, and it'll give you a document about it. And if it then collapses, this building, after its wrong, unskilled work or malicious work, who will be responsible for all the people who lived there and collapsed with this building, die under this building? Where will we then look for this fissco, a businessman who may be in a completely different country at this time? And that private entrepreneur's necklace there or just a private property necklace won't be there at all by then, it'll just be eliminated. We believe that such a function should not be placed in the hands of the State. In relation to State ownership, yes, that could be considered, but a transitional period is needed. We must not take away from the local authorities the budget that they have on this service, once and for all, should not centralize this function. It's just going to be almost impossible. Why? All of these archives, accumulated in many decades by local authorities, require at least an electronic transfer. They need to be centralized, but it takes at least 3, 4, 5 years, maybe. Let's do the first phase, let's do the work. Let us leave for the time being, as we have always wanted, and say all the time, power in the local authorities, power in the regions. And five years later, when there is order in the electronic database, and the law obliges it to do so within two years, it will be possible to transfer it into the public hands. What is the difference between these bills? And the view from the committee. The Committee has considered both bills. It decided to support the draft law drafted by the working group and recommended that the Supreme Council reject the Kabminovski bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Yuri Mikolaiovich. Names of the national MPs, please. Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u22	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I'm asking you to come to the address of your task force. or our working group were asked by self - government officials from city leaders, associations, their proposals, and what were they referring to? Are they supporting the bill or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u23	Like I said, to the working group. I have a list of the working group, there are mayors of cities, heads of council. I can list them all, lots of them here. Written proposals were made. Written proposals were from both mayors and local councils from different regions: and Western regions. Let's say the Lviv region. The Lviv Regional Council decided to support the form of ownership proposed by the working group. For example, the Donetsk region. For example, Lugansk, the city of Lugansk. And so on. All supported the draft bill drafted by the working group and it was drafted on the basis of written proposals from the regions, including. And I didn't get any letters in support of the Kabminov bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u24	Nadosha, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u25	Nadosha Oleg. As in the past, the Mayor of Kremenchug, I want to support this bill, drafted by the working group. Indeed, it is necessary for cities today, and in no case at this stage can the registration of real estate on the territory of the communal communities of Mists, Villages and so on be placed in private hands. We'll wait, if we do, for a big mess. The draft working group would therefore like to support both the faction and its fellow deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u26	Oleg Easy, non-faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u27	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have many meetings with voters, and especially residents of rural areas complain that when a couple dies, yes, it takes thousands of dollars to pay for the change of property. Please tell me, how does this bill address this issue? Will the peasants continue to pay for both men and women building a house, building a house, and then someone dies, and now it takes thousands of dollars to credit the survivor? I think it's totally unfair, it's wrong, and people still have to go to the center from the village. In order to transform the house, a grandmother of 80 years or a grandfather must travel hundreds of miles to the center or tens of thousands of miles. How is it settled that people, first of all, should not pay for their own property, which they have built, for their transformation, and second of all, that they should not drive the world for their eyes to get to the notary? And yet not once, in the notaries of the queue two times, you have to drive three times to transform that property.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u28	A working group worked on the bill. In that case, no technical inventory would have to be carried out. And the registration of ownership will take place without BTI and without their participation at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u29	Yuri Mikolaiovich, so tell us in general about the committee's decision, and then don't go out for the second time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u30	I have already said, however, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill drafted by the working group and the rejection of a bill drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u31	Thank you. Another Ivanovna Jemelyanova, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u32	About what? I don't understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! What's the difference? I'm going to start with a different bill from a bill tabled by the people's deputies for consideration by the Supreme Council and a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. First, a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers removes the monopoly of municipal enterprises for technical inventory. I want to remind you that recently the Supreme Council was adopted as the law of the Ukrainian Law on Technical Inventory, but it was not signed by the President of Ukraine. One of the key points to this law was the inadequacy of the Constitution, namely article 42 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, which states that the State protects competition in entrepreneurial activities. At the same time, this position regarding the preservation of the monopoly does not correspond to the master code of Ukraine. The main means of regulating the State’s influence on the activities of economic operators are either government procurement, licensing, patenting and quotaing, or certification and standardization, application of standards and limits, regulation of prices and tariffs, investment, tax and other benefits, grants, compensation, targeted innovations and subsidies. This is what I am quoting right now, the Code of Masters, which clearly defines his article 12, clearly defines how a state can restrict the pursuit of entrepreneurial activity. The law can also define the types of economic activity that is allowed exclusively to state enterprises, institutions, and organizations. What does the government bill propose? First of all, he suggests that it is necessary to carry out technical inventory. This is prior to the operation of completed buildings, including after renovations and capital repairs. Before the state registration of property for an unfinished construction project. Before a government registration of the property right to an object of immovable property formed as a result of the division or decommissioning of a portion of the immovable property. At the same time, in the course of the transfer of property rights, what exists today, when it comes to the alienation of immovable property, and when persons are obliged in each case to take appropriate technical inventory guidance. The government bill suggests that if the immovable property is taken away, individuals will seek technical inventory only at the request of the parties. The bill also provides for a number of safeguards for the risk of misinformation resulting from technical inventory. First, the executive authorities are tasked with monitoring compliance with the requirements of legislation, issuing regulations for the elimination and monitoring of violations. Secondly, clearly defined obligations to ensure the reliability of technical inventory documents and the responsibility for the inaccuracies of such documents. Now in the session room, the question was raised as to whether the dispersion of property forms of the subjects who would carry out the technical inventory would worsen the rights of persons to register their real estate rights? Absolutely not. First of all, I want to remind you that, today, the Supreme Council has passed the law, it's signed by the President, it's just going to be put into effect on 1 January next year, with regard to the establishment of a single system for the registration of real estate rights. And that the situation that exists today with regard to the dispersal of registers, first of all, does not exist very much, can only be counted by the fingertips of utilities, the Bureau of Technical Inventory, where there are electronic registers of real estate rights. And secondly, we're talking about a government bill, eventually, that will introduce a single register of data on technical inventory. And it is suggested that it should become the only ingredient in the register of real estate rights. I ask the honourable national deputies, despite the committee's decision, to support the government's bill. And once again, I want to remind you that the preservation of the monopoly of utilities violates the Constitution violates article 42 of the Basic Law of Ukraine. And that was the basis for not signing the recently adopted Supreme Council Law on Technical Inventory. Thank you. Please support the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u34	If you'd like to sign up, colleagues. Names of the national MPs, please. Vasil Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u35	I'd like to give Vaszczuk to Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u36	Katerina Vaschuk, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u37	Katerina Vaschuk, People's Party, Volin. I have this kind of question. Tell me, will the adoption of the bill preserve the same system that exists today? For example, two old men live in a village, the house stands on a man, and the man dies. In order for a woman to inherit property, an old woman, she has to go to technical inventory, she has to make an assessment, she has to pay for it. And it's just a lifetime for a person. They built it themselves, built it, why would they pay for it, as it's been standing for 40 years or more? And the second. Isn't that what you're going to do with the introduction?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u38	Complete the formulation of your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u39	. What about the introduction, the inclusion of private structures, the prices of such services will increase further? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u40	Don't doubt it, Catherine Timothy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear Catherine Timothy, regarding your first question about the transformation of an inheritance. The governing bill clearly defines the exclusive list of reasons for the obligation to carry out technical inventory. This does not include a list of the required reasons for carrying out the tests, which means that people will not have to do the tests. With regard to the question of the increase in the rates for the implementation of the inventory. You know, today, when there's a monopoly in one area or another, there's just no competition and it's leading to a rise in tariffs. And so today, what's happening in different regions is absolutely groundless to raise the tariffs for technical engineering. If the market is open, if we take down the monopoly that exists today, the market will settle this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u42	Gerasimczuk, please, faction of the People's Party. He's taking it off. Please, Gordien, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u43	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Inno Ivanovno, you know our long-standing discussions on this bill, give an answer. Nothing's going to go down, the price is definitely, say it all over Ukraine, it's solid. Confirm or disprove. A government bill is an attempt to capture cash flows and send them from the local budgets to private hands. The price is 3 billion. Once again, I tell all the Ukrainians, no price will go down. You're either going to say no, or you're going to confirm it. The other one. By this legislative initiative, the executive branch itself and the possible individual groups that are in power continue to wage war against the self - government authorities for their destruction. So I would urge government officials today to stop any talk about decentralization, to gather inconclusive meetings. Because today we are not led by happiness, but by money flows of conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u44	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u45	Well, first of all, I'd like to. Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to remind you that this function is not being performed by local self-government authorities today, but that they have been delegated to a municipal enterprise. And that these utilities themselves set their own tariffs for providing services to the population. With regard to the question that I have to confirm or deny that in Ukraine there will be an increase in the rate of service for technical inventory. Absolutely not. Absolutely not. And the government bill just says that if we take down the monopoly. Let's remind ourselves that recently we had only a state notary. And we were very afraid to move on to a private notary. Today we have opened up a market for private notaries and how much we have expanded the list of services provided by private notaries, including in matters of inheritance, for today many organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u46	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u47	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. You know, we can welcome the creation of the Single Register of Real Estate Property Rights, we need to, we want to introduce a wealth tax, and this wealth needs to be counted, accessed and so on. That position could be supported if there was not one "but". Here's your claim that market relations resolve the cost of service, it's broken down into the reality of our lives. We have developed the right to land by private firms, structures that complement Goskomem, but the price is crazy, they have complex relationships and documents are very complex. Documents are lost and people's problems have not been solved. This is the first position I'd like to hear your opinion on. And the second. And the President, and everyone's talking about corruption. Today you are expanding the scope of work in which people will earn very much money and this area of activity is corrupt. How are you going to put a stop to illegal activities in this area?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u48	First, thank you for asking. First, I would like to remind you that the government bill proposes to set clear requirements for access to this professional activity. We're talking about licensing, we're talking about that the relevant government authority is going to exercise control and supervision in this area. We're saying that the violations will result in the loss of licenses. And let's remember that today is a monopoly created by the existence of utilities, which is what it turns into in practice. It's a one-time thing to do. Secondly, the raising of tariffs is totally arbitrary, unwarranted. The fact that the time frame for carrying out technical inventory has already gone beyond a reasonable one. What's happening today is that technical inventory takes more than a month and 45 days or more. What's happening today is that this help that is being issued by the Bureau of Technical Inventory, you know that it's only real for a period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u49	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u50	What's happening today is that in order to alienate real estate, you have to take help to the technical inventory office -- so far, the government bill is removing it, you don't have to be alienated. Only when it comes to the introduction of new buildings.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me also, if you don't mind, ask Inni Ivanni. In other words, John, please tell us what laws, the Constitution, the Code of Lords, and so forth are being violated. Why do you not say that the laws that apply to local self - government are being violated? Their right to property? Why do we speak only of the laws that are needed? Please tell me there are 40,000 people today. 40 million, I'm sorry, people who own it. What about them? How can this information and documentation be transmitted simply, thanks, once and for all, and passed on to private entities? What, we don't have anything left to transfer to private structures? And how should we deal with the multitude of letters and references that come from local authorities? If there's a problem, let's stitch it up so there's no queues. What can be done in this situation? It's free of charge to the private BTI documentation, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Well, first of all, I don't think the right to property is being violated at all. For as was the case in communal property today, so is the case. Under the Local Self-Government Act, the function of local self-government is to account for real estate. Accordingly, when a register is created, what does not exist today in any paper media is now available at the municipal technical inventory office, and the state has established a single register. All entities that will provide technical inventory services will be connected to this register. And the information will be in the state. And only the state will own this state registry. To date, the information that is in the municipal bureau of technical inventory, I think they need to understand this situation right now and give it to the state accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, time is up. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please register with the factions. Voropeyev spoke from the committee. It says, "Well, it's from the committee." One more minute, now we're reading again. I don't have one. Here. Well, please, just give it a little bit, because it says here in the documents you signed, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u54	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm actually speaking in the context of this question that you asked, yes. In fact, the Committee supported the MP, but I would like to inform the Chamber that the government has been designated by the President as urgent and paramount, that the issue of expansion, so to speak, has been raised repeatedly by the President and by the Government. There's a question and it's a fear that suddenly some people are going to run to the market, so to speak, and they're going to start doing something, taking flows at all, and so on. It is a matter of thinking that a government-presidential could be supported, but if other legal persons were to be admitted to the market, there should be a strict list of the conditions for such legal persons. For example, the first one, they only work from scratch -- measured the house -- it's in your database. Second, if you need information from the current public service BTI, be good at paying for it. Thirdly, you only work within a certain territorial district because it will depend on your staff, quantity of technology and so on. It's also defined. Fourth, it must be a legal entity with a minimum statute of 10 million, which will be responsible for everything if anything goes wrong. Fifthly, these must be strict qualification requirements for both personnel, they are prescribed, I will not stop, and I will not stop at the technique that the relevant legal officer has. And that's not all. Additional administrative and criminal liability should be introduced in the case of false falsifications, so to speak, measurements and so on and so forth. On such a condition, we can well support the Government and, in furthering the second reading, what I said was recorded on the transcript, clearly worked out, and then it will be further detailed in the regulations under which licences are issued and so on and so forth. That's the idea and what I did. I answered. Thank you. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues! When we included this issue in the agenda and on the Conciliation Council, the State Building Committee demanded local self - government to have the right to express its point of view, since this applies directly to local self - government. Who will answer from the committee? Blackmore? Please. Now we're going to be leaving the deputies, it's coming from the committee. It's going to be from factions and then from MPs. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u56	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on State Construction and Local Self-Government, at its meeting, considered the question, both bills, and concluded that it was necessary to support the parliamentary bill. First of all, because we see this bill taking away the most recent powers of local self-government against the fact that it is precisely those interests that are being declared constantly. Besides, I wanted to ask Inne Ivanovna a few questions here, and I couldn't. What is planned by the Cabinet bill: the creation of a new public authority, a central authority with premises, machinery, functions, field offices, licensing, and certification? Qualifying commissions, by the way, are being established. Who will be present on these qualification boards if we do not have any colleges, no secondary special schools, no schools? Who are these specialists? Indeed, the establishment of this cumbersome administrative system is. is the objective of the Kabminov Bill. I would like to ask Inna Ivanovna that I have not been able to ask, and how much is all this worth for the State budget? There's not a penny left today. And if this bill is passed, how much will it cost? Who counted it? My second main question I wanted to ask her. And who will be responsible for the disastrous consequences, I am sure which will be for local self-government and for citizens with the adoption of this bill? Or as always, we wanted it to be good, but it was always good. Would the Minister of Justice then be willing to resign if the negative consequences of the adoption of the bill were met? It's just me. One of the main provisions that arises. It creates indignation on the ground, it's the phrase "technological inventory is the property of the state." So the expropriation is instantaneous. At one point, all those documents that had been created at BTI since 1927 were to be passed into government property under the wing of the Minust. And the last. We talked about an electronic registry, which is a central issue for technical inventory. If you make the electronics register, then you can take the data. Notaries, and we're going to make all the notaries crazy by this Kabinov bill at some point. I would like to ask you not to support the government bill, the MP's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they've signed up for the faction, and we haven't signed up yet. One minute, the deputies didn't sign up. Please sign up. Output the surnames. So, honourable colleagues, the suggestion that we don't have a break at 12:00, because we've had enough, we've just been working. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Bevanko from the Party of Regions will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, well, I fully share the position that has just been expressed by the Black Sea MP. But I want to add a few more of these facts that need to be considered. Of course, the one record I've already mentioned needs it. Because, in fact, if we want to keep records of property in order for the rich to pay more, there has to be a single electronic registry and access to it must, of course, be sufficiently open. Who owns this whole database, whether it's in local authorities, or whether it's the Ministry of Justice, is the second question. I agree that we can leave the system the way it exists today and that an electronic registry can be established under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice. And then there are no questions about the establishment of any central authorities to which all these powers, functions, documents will be transferred, this issue is removed, but there is a question of market relations in this very serious area. Millions of people are turning to the appropriate structures to obtain evidence of their ownership, and this is now being done by structures established by local authorities. Tomorrow they will be legal persons who will receive a licence and will be responsible for the issuance of these documents. We're with you. How far can a State manage and control this area? Today it is not regulated, financial services are not controlled, financial pyramids are being disrupted today, credit records are being broken, people are taking millions of bracelets by fraud today and people are not able to turn around, and the State is being removed from the regulation of the financial services market, the mortgage services market and this crazy market is being added, which will not be controlled by the State, because the control mechanism does not exist in nature. I believe that the idea of an electronic registry is correct and that it is necessary to make a law on the electronic registry and on who will maintain it and to make changes in the way they are proposed today is quite premature. We can't fight corruption, we can't punish fraud. Today, we have not resolved our relationship in the formulation of ownership of land; today, people cannot obtain a document confirming their right to land, even though legal persons are allowed to do so. How many frauds are there, how many criminal cases? Therefore, do not give rise to social tension by allowing people you do not control, control, or control the business. These laws cannot be adopted in such a way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u59	Bevenko, the Faction Party of the Regions. Pity, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies! We have considered this issue before the Committee on Economic Policy. And in our first consideration, we have decided that this issue concerns almost all the people of our country to create a special parliamentary commission, to invite city mayors, city council presidents and to discuss this issue with them, and to feel what is really happening today when the housing, housing, houses are redesigned and so on. And the problems that have arisen and we have felt that we understand that the creation of a registry is an essential thing. But if we put this amount of work into the hands of entrepreneurs today, and every firm has to have a $10 million charter fund, imagine how they're going to launder that money, how they're going to add to the problems that people have today, and how they're going to make fun of people, and how they're going to suck the last money out of it. I believe that the Committee on Economic Policy's parliamentary commission, which proposed an alternative bill, is largely supported by those members of the commission who were from the cities of that commission, I believe that this is the bill that needs to be supported. Not a bill from the Ministry of Justice, which looks at 42 articles on business and wants to do business, it is likely that tomorrow we will have the Cabinet of Ministers. Although some ministries are today sending a certificate to some commercial structures for the preparation of the document. What's going to happen here, what a vacchanality, it's even hard to imagine. I therefore propose and ask the MPs not to support the bill proposed by the Ministry of Justice, but to support the MP's bill, which clearly defines the functions and lists of free, absolutely free and compulsory services. Most importantly, all documentation will be in one hand, under State control, and the responsibility of the State will be to preserve this documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u61	Thank you, too. Catherine Samuelk passes on the right to speak to Gordienka. Gordijenko is also written, so six minutes. Oleg Lazko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u62	Dear Chairman, Honorary Colleagues, and above all, I turn to the heads of local self - government bodies, local council deputies, officials, and local self - government workers, and utilities. On behalf of the committee members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the general position of the committee coincides with the position of the Economic Policy Committee itself, and we also recommend that Parliament accept as a basis. Members of the committee, the parliamentary bill, using the constructive position of the government bill in its work. The government bill completely breaks and destroys the existing system of accounting for technical inventory. The bill raises the issue of inventory and the calculation of property from the functions of the nearest, to the people, to the self-governing authorities and to any effect of the territorial communities, to the inventory of immovable property. Consider: Foreign capital, foreigners, and stateless persons are allowed, creating preconditions for the transition of real values, land and real estate to the owners of speculative capital, the displacement of Ukrainians from the labour market. The bill lays down the foundations of criminal schemes, the removal of property from citizens, the existence of butterfly firms, and the creation of self-inventory companies entirely dependent on owners. The bill, I mean government, contrary to the Constitution, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, the Civil Code forcefully and free of charge, removes from the property of territorial communities all material on real estate inventory, which makes it impossible to exercise powers in the field of socio-economic development, urban construction, well-being, municipal agriculture, etc. This removal essentially coincides with the confiscation of a crime or the imposition of a support against the enemy who lost the war. The explanatory note to the bill tabled by the government does not exactly correspond to reality and misleads the MPs and all Ukrainian citizens. The bill actually contains corruption risks related to the socio-working sector, because it throws up up to 30,000 community workers on the street, it has a negative impact on the development of the regions, because coming to the local budgets just for the needs of the communities will now enrich individuals. And it's more than three billion dollars in cash. Therefore, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government does not know any body or association that would support the bill and, in turn, finds that the system of local self-government is not acceptable and proposes not to vote for it. From me personally and from the faction I would like to add that there will be no simplification and no cost of transformation. It is not about simplifying and costing people the transformation of real estate rights, but about fighting for huge cash flows. First of all, the government bill is an attempt to capture these very money flows, to redirect them from local budgets to private hands. Soon we will see whose relatives, close relatives, acquaintances, and whose firms occupy this inventory. Secondly, the legislative initiative of executive power and perhaps individual groups in it, and primarily in the Office of the President and the Ministry, continued the war they waged against local self-government to destroy it. So I would urge the state leaders themselves to stop all kinds of talk about decentralization of power, to gather inconclusive meetings with regional representatives and not to leave the very fog in the press. On the other hand, in Ukraine it is said that the community "great man". Respectful colleagues, local self - government officials, who are still in this state, do not hold back and wait until each one of you, and self - rule, is finally achieved. Once again, the bill does not bring good things to every average citizen. It doesn't make it easy to re-register and register real estate rights, it doesn't waste it, it's a struggle for huge cash flows. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will not support such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u63	Oleg Lazko, non-factional. Next Volodymyr Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u64	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. After the anti - Ukrainian betrayal took place in Parliament this morning, when the Party of Regions, together with the so - called united opposition, gave up Ukrainian language, actually betrayed Ukraine, found it difficult to speak on any other subject. It's morally difficult when you feel the spirit of this betrayal of Ukraine in this room, this disgraceful action that has taken place today, which has been carried out by the Party of the Regions together. And the united so - called opposition, led by Yatzenuk, helped them to do so. However, I would like to say a few words under this law, because this law is really, as the previous speakers have said, affecting the interests of millions of Ukrainian citizens. What the government is offering today is to introduce private BTIs and all that, well, it's theft, uncovered theft and trying to steal billions of money. People, investors, trustees, credit companies, and so forth call me every day. The government gave them licenses, these offices, and these offices were robbed, thousands of people picked up, 4 million victims. And today the government tells them that there is no reason to help, they say, the blame for going there. Although the government has issued licences for the operation of these credit unions. I know cases, especially. In Montenegro, I was approached by people who paid money seven years ago, put all the documents on land, and to this day, they can't get these state acts for land. Because there are some private firms out there from Herson, Mikolayev, and God knows where they took the money, took the documents, and disappeared. And people who don't go to the State Commission say, "Go to court, this is your private business." And the fact that the State Commission issued the licenses to these companies doesn't it hold him responsible? Now it's going to be the same. Private BTIs are the horns and hooves that are going to appear today, they're going to take people's money, they're going to take documents and they're going to own property, tomorrow there's not going to be any papers or money or worse, and tomorrow they're going to turn these documents into thirds, 23 people, and those miserable owners are going to be going to court for years, proving that they didn't sign, that they didn't sell, that they didn't even know what was going on. What the government is proposing is another affair aimed at robbing millions of Ukrainian citizens. And I've already talked about peasants who have to pay their money for the change of ownership. He built the house himself, and then he had to pay for the transformation. Therefore, this bill cannot be supported. And the government of Azarov has to resign for these anti-human bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u65	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u66	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! My faction friends, Alla Alexandrovska and Sergey Gordienko, have practically expressed the position of the people. I want to make the next point. The very important, vital question of millions of people, small owners, is being considered. Even now, it is extremely difficult for a simple owner, farmer, or city dweller to carry out technical inventory. I personally accept many voters in all parts of the Chernigian region. And quite often, people complain by name about this. And now we're going to break this system. It's a time of confusion, anarchy. And people will suffer. Have the authors, including the government, asked what our voters thought about this? And the organs of local self-government in my majority, I communicate with them, against them at all. Both bills cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u67	Vladimir Kaplienko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Peter Petrovich Hashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u69	Who? Gussy? Please. Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future supports the legislative initiative to regulate relations in the field of technical inventory of immovable property objects. I mean Bill 10286-1. It should be noted that the main legislative changes apply to the organizational and legal form of BTI. To date, the technical inventory of immovable property is fully concentrated in the hands of utilities. Article 3 of the bill proposes to strengthen the possibility of carrying out technical inventory, both by natural persons who are entrepreneurs and by legal persons. Thus, there is a growing circle of technical inventory subjects, which is certainly a significant positive change in this area. The adoption of this law will shorten time and simplify the procedure for carrying out technical inventory, as well as allow citizens to freely choose a subject who will conduct technical inventory of immovable property. In addition, a comprehensive list of the necessary grounds for carrying out technical inventory is established. The adoption of the Technical Inventory Act will allow for a transparent and competitive environment in the field of technical inventory of immovable property objects, so the MP group "For the Future" will support the bill, I repeat, 10286-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Question completed. The committee proposes, I remind you, the adoption of Bill 10286, which is a parliamentary bill, and Bill 10286-1 to be taken into account in the work. The main scientific expertise in its recommendations came exactly. On the contrary. Dear colleagues, the motion for adoption is based on the draft law. [[Registration number 10286]] The authors are Osika, Voropeyev, Černomorov. Please vote. [[12:06:20]] For-49 The decision is not taken. A second proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of draft law 10286-1. [[government]] [[12:06:45]] For 193 The decision is not taken. I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, 193 does not make a decision. For one more time? What's the committee's offer? [[B in m in s a l in]] Or for the work of the authors? Dear colleagues, come on, Sergey Osika, the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u72	We're going to do it again first. To read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u73	But then we should tell the committee that the first reading should be taken into account. Please, Alexander Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u74	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the law needs to be reformed by the BTI too. And we have to take that for granted. Another case, such as one document and another document. If objectivity is to be said, the bill, which was prescribed by the people's deputies, is more serious than the second bill. That is a fact. But we need to find a way out of this situation. We can now put on a re-first reading, but we will not move forward. Nevertheless, a document will be taken as a base and then, on the basis of this document, the best will be done from another document. Therefore, perhaps it would be logical for all colleagues to agree as follows. If we vote again first, it's going to go backwards and start again, and not the fact that we're going to do it. If we had agreed and, among other things, the Government had supported us on this issue, that we would have taken the MP's bill as a base and amended those who considered it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u75	Let me finish. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u76	. and have made amendments to those who consider it mandatory to bring the Government forward, we would move forward and go on second reading with a normal document.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, then we can put the proposal to the vote back and then consider the proposal already said. Dear colleagues, I am voting for a return to this issue. [[12:09:45]] For 229 We're back. Now I'm voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft law, the MP, based on the proposal just made by Alexander Efraemov, as a basis. [[10286]] If the Supreme Council supports, then take into account the government's work and proposals. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:10:21]] For 227 Decision taken. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u78	Yes, please, Ephraim's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! I have one more time with the government representatives on this bill. I know all the nuances that follow. But let us agree that the deputies, they have their views and have become deeply involved in this problem. We worked with you to invite people from the territories to draft a bill. If you have some kind of policy on it, let's put in the bill that we just voted on, but we'll move on. But rolling out the second time on the same bill and overthrowing the law, if we disagree with the position we have adopted, is the way to nowhere. We're gonna bury the document, and we're not gonna solve anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u80	We are continuing our consideration of the issues. Dear colleagues, find out about your relationship outside the session hall. Break. You've been told that we work all the time because there's been a break. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improvement. to some Ukrainian legislation on improving and simplifying the procedure for the state registration of land and immovable property rights. [[Registration number 10365]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. No objections? Please be supportive. [[12:12:20]] For 213 Supported. Report to the Deputy Justice Minister of Dmitry Crow. Prepare the Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u81	Dear National Deputies, the draft Law has been drafted and drafted and the implementation of paragraph 80 of the 2012 National Action Plan for the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme has been prepared. In the draft Act, by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Laws: on State registration of goods rights, on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State registration of goods rights and other legislative acts: on notariate, on mortgage, on enforcement of the introduction, it is proposed to improve and simplify the procedure for State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations. In particular, the draft law provides for notaries to be granted the powers of the State Register of Real Estate Rights, resulting from notary actions, to determine whether to obtain an extract from the State Register of Real Estate Rights to persons who have property rights to foreign immovable property, as well as information on the availability of mortgages and the burden of real estate rights, to regulate the interaction of State Registration Authorities with the State Enforcement Service and notaries, to allow the submission of documents for State registration of rights, both in paper form and in electronic form, while the application deadline is reduced from 14 to 5 working days. The exemption of natural and legal persons from the payment of government duties in the conduct of a re-registration. In addition, the draft law is designed to improve the order of the state registration of the land. In this connection, the bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian law on State land cadastre and to exclude the position under which the state registration of the land is cancelled by the State cadastre, which makes such registration if, within one year from the date of the State registration of the land, the goods are not registered for the applicant’s fault. The adoption of the bill will ensure improvements and simplification, a significant simplification of the state registration procedure. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich, from the committee. He was just defending another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u83	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, Bill 10365, what's the point of it, and why do we need it very much for everyone sitting here? If you remember, we postponed the conduct, transfer of property rights and other rights, eternal real estate rights, and postponed the functions of the Ministry of Justice until 1 January 2013. Regrettably, the Ministry of Justice has now embarked on the establishment of new structures. They thought about it, understood that the path to nowhere and requiring additional financial difficulties, and they leave this function to not the new structures that require space, cars, people and so on, but leave this function to the existing institutions of the Ministry of Justice, namely the local administrations of justice. That's the first one. Second. They allow notaries to enter the database of the Ministry of Justice and change the owner in the course of the sale transactions by obtaining a statement and handing it over to the person. The person would not run to several institutions, he had come to the notary of the transaction and had assured it and had received a document on the right of ownership. In this way, many other technical points have been clarified. This bill is very much needed. But there's one little "but." By this bill, Kabmin proposes to transfer the date of the transfer to the Ministry of Registration from 1 January 2013 to 1 July 2012. I mean, in a month. They're not ready yet. Many other local authorities are not ready to do so yet. Therefore, this date will have to be changed, of course, until the second reading. The Committee suggests that the bill be supported and adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u84	Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Please, Landik Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the bill's fine when you listen, it's fine. But let's remember, when we came here, we carried the slogan "All Local Self-Government" on our flags. How did you get here, what kind of bill you didn't take last week, all the way to the garbage, all the way to the heat station, to take everything from the local government? What will it do to govern self - government? It's just me. Is the High Council going to run the deputies or what? This is a function of local self-government, which brings little or no income to the execution of local self-government. In due course, we took the market fee from the local government, we took the money that went to repair the roads from the GAI, and now we can't even fix the road for our money, there's nothing we can do. And there's little money, there's not a small amount, there's millions of money in local government. And when we all give up. What's a private notary? Whatever the price he wants, he'll do it. So the price will be higher, quality worse, control, as we saw in the previous bill, nothing. They'll ask, go there to the Ministry of Justice. And the answer is, I know what it'll be like. They always have the same answer: "Go to court." That's it. And will our people go to court? The Notary's payment, the pay court, the pay lawyer, everyone's salary. I do not think that this law will do better not only to local self-government but also to citizens living under this local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u86	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal: to adopt a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving and simplifying the procedure for the state registration of land and property rights. [[Registration number 10365]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:19:59]] For 217 The decision is not taken. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian laws on architectural activity and licensing for certain types of agricultural activity. [[on the licensing of commercial activities in construction]] [[Registration number 10131]] There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:20:37]] For 212 Offer supported. Reported by the Deputy Minister for Regional Development of Construction and Housing, Grigory Mikhailovich Semchuk. Get ready for Maibeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u87	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Architecture and the Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity is designed to improve public regulation in the area of urban construction. His acceptance is necessary for such reasons. First. In the course of the construction reform, all kinds of activities are based on design, project expertise, control, responsibility, and so on, the complexity of objects and impact classes, i.e. responsibility. Such an approach should also be introduced in licensing activities related to the creation of architecture objects. The other one. Today, according to the government’s approved licensing system, licences are issued only for the construction of objects of the fourth and fifth categories of complexity. Yet, as an important edition of article 17 of the Act on Architecture, there are no specific types of economic activity associated with the creation of architectural objects that are subject to licensing. Therefore, this issue needs an immediate settlement at the level of law. The document was agreed upon in accordance with the regulatory requirements. The comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate of the Supreme Council can be taken into account when working on a profile committee. The draft act is in line with the 2011-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective Authority", which, as part of the deregulation of enterprise development, provides for simplification of the permit system in construction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u88	Thank you. Sergey Maybeard of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u89	The distinguished presiding, respected colleagues, of the Committee, at its meeting on 16 May 2012, considered the draft Act amending the Act on Architecture and licensing of certain economic activities on the licensing of economic activities in the construction of the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Registration number 10131]] In considering issues related to the construction licensing system, the Committee concluded that it was premature for the Ukrainian Association of Project Organizations and the Academy for the Construction of Ukraine to abolish the licensing of city and project document developers. The Committee has received the conclusions of other committees on the bill. In particular, the Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Committee believes that the lifting of the licence for the construction of architecture I and C complex categories will help reduce the cost of construction. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the bill would have an impact on the budget figures and would result in a reduction in the revenues for licences to local budgets. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that it is advisable to return to the draft. As a result of its consideration at its meeting on 16 May 2012 of the draft Act amending the Act on Architecture and the Licensing of Certain Economic Activities, the Committee decided to propose a bill to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policies for finalization and subsequent re-reading. Thank you for your attention. And please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u90	Yes, thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? You don't? I'm then voting on the proposal to accept as a basis, even though the committee, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration doesn't recommend it, but that's what the Cabinet of Ministers is asking. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on architectural activity and on licensing for scientific activities. [[on the licensing of commercial activities in construction]] [[Registration number 10131]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:25:28]] For 226 Yes. We are discussing the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Approval of the National Programme for HIV Prevention, Treatment, Care and Support of HIV-infected and AIDS Patients for 2009-2013. [[Registration number 10192]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[12:26:12]] For 214 Supported. First Deputy Minister of Health, Raís Moseyenko, reports. Prepare Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u91	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, distinguished colleagues! The draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Approval of the General Programme for the Fight against AIDS by 2013 has been developed to carry out the President's orders and the President's decree. The law presupposes the improvement of alternative support therapy, the introduction of rare forms of medical treatments, which will enhance control over their use, and the provision of self - control tools for replacement offices. The main thing is to create a register of opioid injecting drug users who are being provided with services of alternative support therapy, and to monitor the effectiveness of this treatment. Study and generalize effective alternative treatments for drug abuse The main purpose of this treatment situation in general is to resocialize drug users in society. I'll just give you one number. In 2010, out of 6,000,700 people who were directly in foster care, over 2,000 were employed, over 3,000 had a family, and 207 were born healthy babies. So far, all measures of substitution support are being implemented at the expense of the global grant and the cost of the state budget is not being used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u92	Thank you. Please sit down. From the committee, Korz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u93	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear voters! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care reviewed the bill on April 25, 2012, and supported it. The bill amends the appendix, specifies the steps taken to ensure access to alternative therapy, and identifies the main funds allocations for the implementation of the program. Redistribution is made between the main budget administrators. The changes proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to the current state programme aimed at expanding the scope of alternative supportive therapy for HIV-infected injectors. This is very important to reduce the risk of spreading HIV infection among the population. According to the National Report, the total number of people with drug problems who are on the payroll now exceeds 100,000. It was in the context of injecting drug users in Ukraine that an explosion occurred in the 1990s, and there was an HIV/AIDS epidemic in Ukraine. Unfortunately, Ukraine now has a sad leadership at the pace of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. We are second in Europe and fifth in the world at the rate of HIV infection. Every day, almost 60 citizens are diagnosed with HIV infection in our country. Only by revitalizing Ukraine’s relief program, which requires replacement therapy, has the level of injecting decreased significantly. This became possible with the adoption in 2009 at the level of the law of the National HIV Prevention Program. We often hear criticism of our address in support of expanding access to surrogate therapy in Ukraine. But world practice testifies to the effectiveness of this method. The main scientific and expert office has supported the adoption of this bill, and your attention is drawn to the fact that the adoption of this bill does not require any additional expenditure from the state budget, as the First Deputy Minister has already said. The committee supports the inclusion of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u94	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u95	and asks the Supreme Council, the deputies, to accept it as a foundation and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u96	Thank you, Victor Petrovich. Shall we discuss it? Oh, no? No one insists. Dear colleagues, may I have a few words to sum up the discussion. At the same time, with the opportunity, I would like to draw attention to the fact that today, through the First National Channel, Adrenaline and one of the topics, and in fact there was a micro-parliament meeting, because 54 national deputies were in this broadcast, they were looking at various life-threatening issues. And the first question was the issue. And the representatives of all the factions, and there on this transmission, I emphasize once again, was represented in a miniaturous parliament, a miniparliament, i.e. a proportional number from each faction, and we all made a unanimous decision then to deal with the immediate solution of this, including the problem. So I would ask, let's really support the committee and vote for this bill now, we'll approve the program as a whole. No objections? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Approval of the National Programme for HIV Prevention, Treatment, Care and Support of HIV-infected and AIDS Patients for 2009-2013. [[Registration number 10192]] Please vote. [[12:32:15]] For 260 Thank you. 260. The law is passed. Please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We seem to have made a mistake by not finalizing Bill 10365. We have now come to terms with our colleagues, and there is indeed a significant step forward for people to register their property. Therefore, there is a request, Adam Ivanovich, to return to the matter, to put the matter to a vote, to consider the bill, and to remedy the error.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u98	Is there no objection? Rules allow you to return and vote once. Who, in order to return to the vote on Bill 10365, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving and simplifying the procedure for the state registration of land and property rights for immovable property, please identify yourself. [[12:33:32]] For 234 We're back. I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the first reading a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving and simplifying the procedure for the state registration of land and property rights. [[Registration number 10365]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:34:07]] For 233 Copy that. We are considering: a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity to ensure reliable electricity supply to consumers and investment in infrastructure. [[unbreakable]] [[Registration number 10337]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:34:42]] For 224 Supported. Reported by Czech Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Sergey Mihajlovich. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! With a view to fulfilling the commitments set out in the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's Accession to the Energy Co-operation Treaty and bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with the requirements of Directive 2005-89-EU on measures for the security of electricity supply and infrastructure investment, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry has developed a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity to ensure reliable electricity supply to consumers and investment in infrastructure. To ensure reliable electricity supply to consumers as part of Ukraine’s energy security, the bill introduces operating safety standards for the operation of a unified energy system and quality indicators for electricity services. [[unbreakable]] The approval of operating security standards for the functioning of Ukraine’s unified system is carried out by the central executive body, which provides for the formation and implementation of state policy in an electricity complex, in agreement with the National Commission, which implements national regulation in the field of electricity. The Central Executive Authority, which ensures the formation and implementation of state policy in the electricity complex, monitors compliance with operating security standards and the functioning of Ukraine’s unified energy system. The development and validation of quality of electricity services will be carried out by the National Commission for State Energy Regulation. The development of operational safety standards for the operation of a unified energy system by a state-owned enterprise that operates a dispatcher, operational and technical unit. The adoption of the bill will have a positive impact on all sectors of social production, as it will enhance the reliability and quality of the electricity supply of all Ukrainian consumers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u100	Thank you. Igor Gluschenko, Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u101	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meeting on 25 April 2012, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the provision of reliable continuous electricity to consumers and investment in infrastructure]] [[Registration number 10337]] The purpose of the bill is to fulfil the obligations provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine’s Accession to the Energy Cooperation Treaty. Companions. I'm sorry. In particular, bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with the requirements of Directive 2005-89-EU on measures to ensure security of electricity supply and infrastructure investment. The bill amends the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, which provides for the introduction of OES operating safety standards at the legislative level????? Ukraine, the quality of electricity services, the introduction of operating safety standards and quality of electricity services, are designed to avoid Ukraine’s unified energy system, an emergency that is proposed by the bill. The bill is one of the stages of adapting Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's electricity sector legislation. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill may be based on a basis. In doing so, the authorities made some comments to him that could be taken into account in preparing the draft law for consideration in the second reading. As a result of the discussion in the PEC Committee, it was decided to recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u102	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u103	recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Shall we vote? I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Electricity Act to ensure reliable electricity supply to consumers and investment in infrastructure. [[unbreakable]] Registration number 10337. Please vote. [[12:40:16]] For 255 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the appointment of national commissions that regulate the market in securities and financial services markets. [[Registration number 10404]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[12:40:52]] For 210 Supported. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Ivan Ivanovna Jemelyanov. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the appointment of national commissions that regulate the state's securities market and financial services markets. It was developed in response to the requirements of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law of 7 July 2011 "To amend certain legislative acts on national commissions that regulate national monopolies in the field of natural monopolies and inform the markets of securities and financial services. The purpose of the draft law is to arrange for the use in legislative acts of committee names that regulate securities and financial services. It, the draft law, does not require an increase in funding from the state budget and will, at the same time, enable the application of its own names in Ukrainian laws on national commissions that regulate securities markets and financial services. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, Karakai from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u107	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, reviewed the bill at his meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. At the same time, the bill contains technical comments from the Scientific and Expert Office, which can be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u108	Thank you. Nobody insists? I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the appointment of national commissions that regulate the national market for securities and financial services markets. [[Bill registration number 10404]] Please vote. [[12:43:10]] For 257 The bill was adopted in the first reading. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Appointments of National Commissions. [[bill registration number 10405]] Suggestion: Consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[12:43:43]] For 224 Supported. Inna Ivanovna Jemelyanova, the prime minister, reports. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, as well as the previous bill, which is now before you for your consideration of the draft Law on the Ordering of the Tax Code on the Use of Own Names of National Commissions, which implement national regulations in the field of energy, utilities, financial services markets for securities and the stock market in connection with and information. Why did a separate bill need to be passed? Because you know that the Tax Code requires changes to the Tax Code only by a separate law. Nor will it require increased funding from the State budget, and it will enable the application of the National Commissions Code of Tax Names that regulate the areas I have listed: utilities, financial services, securities, the stock market, communications and information. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u110	Thank you. Vitaly Homutinnik, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, these are interlinked bills with the previous one, which was adopted by 10404, and are related to the renaming of names of commissions that regulate natural monopolies in the field of communication and informationing financial services markets, and so on. The committee therefore proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The only trailer is that when we're working on this bill, we're going to transfer it to Project 10204, which we recently adopted, which is also being developed with the Ministry of Justice together, we're going to consider as a second reading. So the suggestion is to take this as a base for us to automatically move to body 10224, so that we don't make any further changes to the Tax Code, which is perceived, is not so good when we constantly change the Tax Code itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u112	Yes, there isn't. It's all clear, right, the names have been renamed, we need to get it right. Vitaly, could we just accept them as law right now, or are there any nuances? We can't? Right. I then propose to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Appointments of a National Commission. [[Registration number 10405]] Please vote. [[12:46:54]] For 253 Thank you. Copy that. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food, the Ministry of Social Policy, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10222]] There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:47:31]] For 219 Supported. Report to the People's Deputy, Miroshnichenko. Get ready, Prestenco Marina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u113	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. Your consideration is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food, the Ministry of Social Policy, other central executive bodies, whose activities are targeted and coordinated by the relevant ministers. [[Registration number 10222]] In connection with administrative reform, it is necessary to bring into line with the Constitution the redistribution of powers between the President of Ukraine and the government, as well as with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the central executive authorities in the areas of public agrarian policy, labour relations, social protection of the population, and so on. It is proposed to amend the 9 laws governing the activities of the 10 central executive bodies. I'll stop at the main points in more detail. First. The lack of systems of approach to the creation of ministries and other central executive bodies has led to a situation where the principle of the difference between their tasks has been lost. It is proposed that laws clearly define the powers of the central executive authorities in the relevant spheres of government policy. The other one. The existence of central authorities, the territorial bodies of central executive bodies, must be referred to the competence of the President of Ukraine. Third. The formation of advisory, advisory, and other subsidiary bodies, both government and other executive bodies, cannot be subject to regulation. Four. A review of legislation has been carried out with a view to decentralization of powers from government to central executive authorities and from the latter to local executive authorities. Fifth. Legislative acts are proposed to be brought into line with the terminology of the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please support this legislative initiative and accept this bill as a basis. Because it's going as an extension initiated by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u114	Thank you. Marina Perestenko, please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u115	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is proposed for consideration. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food, the Ministry of Social Policy, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10222]] The bill contains amendments to 79 Ukrainian laws that should regulate the activities of ten central executive bodies. But the project has significant shortcomings. In particular, the law proposes to distribute the powers provided for by separate legislative acts between central executive authorities that form state policies in certain areas and those that implement state policies in the relevant spheres. In fact, the contents of the bill do not fully comply with the provisions of the law, to which the author wishes to refer. In particular, it is envisaged that changes be made to the functions of individual executive bodies that do not meet the purpose and subject of the bill. The definition in the law of the form of a central executive body on which an appropriate function or authority is based may be regarded as an intervention by Parliament in the sphere of competence of the head of state. Because the definition of the institutional and legal form of the central authority of the executive branch of the Ministry or of another central body of its place in the system of executive bodies belongs to the powers of the President of Ukraine. It should also be noted that the bill proposes a reduction in powers for some government authorities and an increase for others, including the authority of local authorities. This will result in redistribution and, in some cases, an increase in budget expenditure, as required by the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u116	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u117	The budget code should be accompanied by adequate financial justification and agreement with the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. According to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill needs substantial work. The first deputy minister of the agro-industry complex at the committee also stressed that the law needed work because it balanced the Ministry’s activities. Therefore, I recommend that the committee recommend to the Supreme Council the proposed bill to revert to the subject of the legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u118	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Nobody insists? You heard the committee's conclusion. The same idea as the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the bill needs substantial work. But I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food, the Ministry of Social Policy, other central executive bodies, whose activities are directed and coordinated by the relevant ministers), please vote. [[Registration number 10222]] [[12:53:44]] For 233 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, there is a proposal to consider a reduced procedure. [[on the optimization of the powers of executive authorities in the sphere of ecology and natural resources, including at local level]] [[Registration number 10218]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:54:17]] For 219 Supported. Report to the People's Deputy, Miroshnichenko. Prepare for the Seminog Committee, Shershun? Yes, Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u119	Dear voters, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the optimization of the powers of executive authorities in the sphere of ecology and natural resources, including at local level]] [[Registration number 10218]] The provisions of the legislative acts are consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Laws of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Central Executive Authorities. It is proposed to amend 19 laws governing the activities of four central executive authorities. In fact, it's the same bill as the ones we voted with you. And it provides for the harmonization of approaches to the formation of central executive bodies -- not to use their own names, because ministries can be called different, then the law should have a general name, the formation of territorial authorities, the central executive authorities, so they should not be regulated in law, but a presidential decree, when a central body is created, an executive body, or in general a reform is formed or reformed. And so we still need to bring terminology into line with the terms used in the Constitution. So, actually, dear colleagues, we understand that some of the landmarks are interested in preserving the status quo that is now, but the reform needs to be carried out. I ask you to support this bill in its first reading, and of course, until the second reading, all necessary amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u120	Please, Mikola Schershun is the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u121	The committee has carefully considered the bill and notes that a large number of comments have been made to the bill, both conceptually and individually. In particular, the bill proposes the transfer of a large number of environmental protection powers, particularly in the area of arbitrary activities, to local government administrations. At the same time, central executives are entrusted with powers that cannot be properly implemented because of the absence of a system of territorial bodies, which is very important, which can significantly exacerbate the environmental protection situation. For example, if you take the State Forestry Agency, even the creation of protocols is referred to as a central authority, and the territorial authorities are virtually excluded. And that's what this is going to lead to. Unmotivated is the removal of central executives from the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of environmental protection of the environmental dimension of consent in the field of drug use, validation of accounting forests, and other issues. Without a reasoned basis, it is suggested that the activities of the National Commission on the Red Book be effectively discontinued. The bill contains many other shortcomings and disagreements. And the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a number of substantive observations on the regulatory nature and in fact on the bill. The main scientific and expert office also made numerous comments and noted that the bill needed substantial work. The Committee, in line with the position of the Committee on Rules, the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, notes that considering such a number of observations, in particular conceptual nature, cannot be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. In view of what has been said, the committee proposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u122	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u123	In view of the above, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, to reject. [[on the optimization of the powers of executive authorities in the sphere of ecology and natural resources, including at local level]] Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u124	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Yes. Besides Light and Caplienne, who insists? More, no? Then please, Easy, then Chapel, then Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Now the honourable author of the Yuri Miroshnichenko bill, which I respect, which I have known for many years, is proposing a bill on optimizing the activities of state structures. And what is this optimisation? They were subordinated to one another, then to another, and then to decide radically, they should be reduced mainly. Today, we have five hundred thousand officials in Ukraine, half a million officials, to maintain the government apparatus this year with twenty billion dollars. For comparison: to education, to medicine, to culture, to the library, to sports, to the maintenance of public authorities. And we're talking about optimization? We had seven for one with a spoon, we had seven for one with a seven with a spoon, and in our country, we had thirty with a single-worker spoon. And so you have to, optimization can only be one thing: a radical reduction in the number of civil servants. I said, why do we need district administrations? There are councils, there are administrations, these two-headed hydrates are sitting in the area, and they're not helping anyone. A man goes to the council, they say, "Go to the administration." He goes to the administration, they say, "Go to the council." And then they're going round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and "Go to court." Where they've been going to court for years because there's no fair trial. That's why. And they all want to eat, and all the money the people eat, and all the cars under their own ass, and they buy houses at the expense of the state. So what I'm saying is that optimizing the government can be one, a radical reduction in the number of civil servants at least three times, a ban on pensioners from working in public authorities, nothing for them to sit on, nothing for them to grow. Young people need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u126	Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u127	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'd like to go to the author of Yuri Miroshnick's bill. The MPs will give their hand to help, and in the first reading we will vote for him, but this is a very large set of comments on how to correct the second reading. And these are primarily such things as the actual suspension of action, the decision of the current decision to amend the Animal World Act of Ukraine, which we adopted in the eleventh year, when we deprived poachers of the possibility of using one or the other tools. Of course, there are masquerading things. For example, the Ministry of Ecology. We eliminate territorial governments, and we introduce so - called environmental oversight bodies, which are subordinated to some administration. It is also not clear. Question three. The state environmental inspection of Ukraine. Please tell me, after the adoption of this law, who will make the protocols? Who is it? Unless these inspectors are granted any rights. So what is central government going to do or what? So this is an imperfect thing. Next question. Local councils, which to this day have had quite a strong influence on the system of monitoring and control in the environmental field. Excuse me, but where did they share in this law? In this code, what kind of name do we enter as a unified document? Next question. The State Forest Resources Agency will be given extraordinary powers to form and control everything that happens to flora and fauna in this country. Disposal of the National Commission from the Red Book. Why does this happen? Well, there are even exotic things. Something is allowed now without any permission to burn, for example, such dry ones. Why? I think all these answers have to be given, to these questions, to give answers to the second reading. In another way, this law does not have the right to life. The faction will support this bill in the first reading. But without correcting the situation in the second reading, no voice will be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u128	Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I want to dispel some myths. These laws do not deal with the elimination of the territorial authorities of executive power. This law does not refer to the removal of a commission from the Red Book. The comments made by the State Committee on Forestry will also be taken into account. Another Johnna and I held meetings to which representatives and the public were invited and relevant central authorities of the executive branch. The only thing is that the law has to regulate general principles. And let's say the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers forms the National Commission of the Red Book or the President's decision in the Decree determines which territorial authorities of the executive branch will be in one or the other central executive body. So, honourable colleagues, everything about improving the content of these bills can only be done for a second reading, as you understand. So I ask you to support me first, and for second reading, we will continue to work with the committees and the working group. I'm ready to cooperate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u130	You don't have to work in mode. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the optimization of the powers of executive authorities in the sphere of ecology and natural resources, including at local level]] [[Registration number 10218]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:05:32]] For 234 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10223]] There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:06:10]] For 211 Supported. The report is Yuri Miroshnichenko. Prepare the Insects.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u131	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear voters, honourable colleagues, you are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10223]] It is proposed to amend 74 laws governing the activities of 15 central executive authorities. The content of this bill is the same as the one we considered before it. It is a series of technical issues related to the harmonization of terms, terminology used in the Constitution, as well as other positions relating to the organization of their activities. I ask for the same support in the first reading of this bill, and for the second reading, we will work with the committee to get it approved as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u132	Thank you. Sergei Osika is from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered this bill two weeks ago at its meeting. The structure is really what he reported it to be. Various comments are coming. But we think that they can all be included in the second reading and we suggest that we support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u134	Thank you. Shall we vote? I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Bill registration number 10223]] Please vote. [[13:08:50]] For 247 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, other central executive bodies, whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Bill registration number 10219]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:09:31]] For 214 Supported. Report by Yuri Miroshnichenko. Get ready for Oliynik Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u135	Honourable electors, honourable colleagues, are proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council for a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, other central executive bodies, whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10219]] Dear colleagues, it is proposed to amend the 50 laws governing the activities of the 8 central executive authorities. The contents of this bill are also the same as those that we have considered and, at large, could even be one bill to make all these changes. Because we are making changes in the functioning of the central executive branch in our country. I also support the intention of both authors and developers, and the developers are the Ministry of Justice, which has carefully studied and coordinated the overall implementation of administrative reform in Ukraine into cooperation, and taking all reasonable and logical proposals into account for second reading. Please support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u136	Thank you. Vladimir Olijnik, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] The project introduced by Miroshnichenko and the submission is the Cabinet of Ministers. This bill we believe must be adopted and we ask all of you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u138	Thank you. Shall we vote? I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, other central executive bodies, whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10219]] Please vote. [[13:12:33]] For the 250. Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers and the State Space Agency]] [[Registration number 10221]] Please support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. [[13:13:15]] For 215 Supported. Report by Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u139	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! For the consideration of the Supreme Council, a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is proposed. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers and the State Space Agency]] [[Registration number 10221]] Dear colleagues, this is similar to the previous bill, which proposes to amend 36 laws that regulate the activities of 9 central executive bodies. I ask you to support it on the basis of the following revisions to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u140	Yes, thank you. Yavorowski was to report from the committee. None. Who's from the committee? You don't? No objection to put to the vote? I would like to propose a proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers and the State Space Agency]] Please vote. [[13:14:50]] For 253 Decision taken. We are considering: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, other central executive bodies whose activities are directed and coordinated through relevant ministers, the State Television and Radio Committee]] [[Registration number 10220]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u141	I said I had to do it alone. But a very large, very large bill was passed. [[13:15:36]] For-200 Offer supported. I also asked Yuria Romanovich to do this, but he said, "If it wasn't for a comparative table that would have to be carried by a truck of three, it would have been possible." So there's this problem, the comparative tables take up a lot. Please, Yuri Romanovich. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u142	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In fact, it is a bill that has been divided into seven in view of the fact that one person is physically unable even to lift that weight. So they divided into spheres and introduced seven bills, respected colleagues. There's probably no point in repeating that this is the same thing as the previous bill, which is about amending 63 laws that regulate the activities of 12 central executives. I ask you to support this bill on the basis of the following revisions to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u143	Thank you. From the Committee on Science and Education, Ramez, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u144	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education at its meeting on 11 April 2012 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, introduced by the National MP of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, other central executive bodies whose activities are directed and coordinated through relevant ministers, the State Television and Radio Committee]] [[Registration number 10212?????? of 16.03.2012]] And he made a decision: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt this bill as a basis. The purpose of the bill is to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into the sphere of activities that are fixed and noted by the Ministry in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. To this end, it is proposed to amend the 60 legislative acts of Ukraine that regulate the activities of the 12 central executive bodies. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on its basis since 23.04.2012, calls attention to the fact that many of the provisions of the draft have been brought to the fore because of the lack of reasonableness of their content and recommends that the draft law be submitted for further work in the first reading. The adoption of the bill does not require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. The committee received a letter of support from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, as well as specific comments from the Ministry of Education and Science, youth and sport of Ukraine, the State Agency for Science, Innovation and Information of Ukraine and the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which propose to adopt a bill taking into account the comments made. I propose to support the committee's decision, considering that the bill will be further developed with the above observations in preparing it for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u145	Shall we vote? After such active support of the People's Party. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, other central executive bodies whose activities are directed and coordinated through relevant ministers, the State Television and Radio Committee]] [[Registration number 10220]] Please vote. [[13:20:21]] For 258. Thank you. Decision taken. We're considering a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technological development. [[Bill No. 10145]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Vote. Now. The "work" is getting tired. Yeah. Okay, okay. Now, for a few minutes, the "Work" will be re-launched, the " Rada" system, because we're working. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I think we'll make a decision, won't we? If the microphones are working, please, Catherine Seminovna, two minutes until they restart the Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! You know, we've introduced the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technological development. And we make the decision every year, and by Science Day, we're handing out this prize. But when we made a decision on the candidates, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rightly made a note to our committee that, unlike teachers, teachers, teachers of vocational and technical schools, we do not say that, together with the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize, there is also a breastplate. And so, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we've written it down in the decree, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made changes to the current decision, where we propose and describe, and we're also proposing, along with all the documents, to hand over the breastplate. I'm showing you a breastplate that we're going to hand over to young scientists. On the first and the main sides, on this, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is written the word "Ukraine", and on the other hand, the title is "The Supreme Council of Ukraine Award to Young Scientists." So the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has carried out your commission, developed everything and even manufactured signs of breastplates. And I'd like to ask you to maintain that position. In fact, we've changed your assignment accordingly. I'd like to ask you to support the committee. No discussion, no summary. You don't have to vote then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, who have objections? It is up to the vote to propose a committee on adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and scientific and technological development. [[Registration number 10145]] Please vote. [[13:24:39]] For 252 I'll take the order. Dear National Deputies! I propose to you the draft Act amending article 10-1 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. [[on the granting of additional leave]] [[9522]] The committee's proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:25:12]] For 211 Decision taken. The reporter is Alexander Kuzmuk. Samofalov will report? Please. It's possible from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The law is very important to soldiers, families. Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk called and asked. [[Unfortunately, he's sick today.]] Because there is some misunderstanding on the part of the Government, they believe there is an additional burden on the budget. In fact, there is no budgetary burden; all of this will be done in the amount of cash that will be made available to the military. It is proposed that the draft law be submitted for further processing in order to be fully understood and adopted as appropriate. Thank you. For processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u149	Thank you. Who's there from the committee? None. Deal? Are we immediately proposing a transfer to processing? No objections? I then propose to send a bill, a bill to amend article 10-1 of the Ukrainian Law on Social Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, for further work. [[No. 9522]] [[on the granting of additional leave]] Please vote. [[13:27:04]] For 240 Decision taken. The bill is designed to be redrafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the establishment of a green tariff on electricity produced from solid household waste is under consideration. The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:27:47]] For-200 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Ukrainian national deputy Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, co-rapporteur – deputy head of committee Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u151	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to improve tariff policy in the electricity sector by establishing a special incentive tariff for green electricity produced from solid household waste. The bill provides for the introduction of additional incentives for electricity and heat generation from solid household waste to provide conditions for investment in the construction of today’s high-efficiency power generation. In addition, the bill aims to reduce the volume of imported energy and reduce the negative impact on the environment. In Ukraine, about 15 million tons of solid household waste are produced annually. The years - long experience of developed countries shows that environmental problems associated with the disposal of solid household waste are solved through the use of waste as raw materials for energy production. In this context, I will point out that environmentally sound recycling of solid household waste is primarily the health of 46 million Ukrainian citizens. Today, Ukraine's current legislation provides a green tariff for electricity producers. No household waste is foreseen. This is a major obstacle to the implementation of the national Clean City project, which is strategic for Ukraine and which the President of Ukraine has identified as one of the first priorities. Without a green tariff for electricity produced from solid household waste, the time limit for the accumulation of modern energy from waste generation is more than 20 years. But setting a separate rate of green tariff would reduce the time limit for the construction of modern energy companies from waste to 8-9 years, which would help stimulate foreign investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u152	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u153	In view of the environmental component and the European experience of stimulating electricity producers produced from solid household waste and with the aim of increasing the level of energy security of the State, please support the bill in its first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u154	Thank you, too, Mikolo Ivanovich. Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk, please. Who will be speaking from the committee? Today's Jubilee in our reporter, let's get him out of the report. Please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikhailo Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u155	The distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers has requested and the absent author, and the faction of the Party of the Regions also requests that the consideration of the bill be postponed for a week, as further agreement is needed to ensure that this important bill is voted in the Chamber and not failed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u156	The point is, dear colleagues, since we are already in the process of considering it, we cannot move it, we can either accept it as a basis, or we can direct it to further the subject of the legislative initiative. So the first proposal will be based on. When we are not supported, we return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Dear colleagues, you vote as you see fit, and by the Rules vote as a basis, if not, for further work. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the establishment of a green tariff on electricity produced from solid household waste. [[Registration number 9588]] [[13:32:30.]] For-24 Not accepted. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to subjects of the right of legislative initiative to work. [[13:32:51]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft decree on the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's participation in UN peacekeeping operations and the establishment of Ukrainian Peacekeepers' Day is being announced. [[Registration number 10339]] There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:33:31]] For 214 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Kolesnichenko. The Coroner is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Gritsenko, please. Sergei Greenewecki is a co-reporter. Please, Vadim Koleschenka. Is there an author? Please, then, from the Committee of Sergey Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u157	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee supported the idea of honoring Ukrainian peacekeepers, while members of the committee pointed out that the position of the project was not fully in line with the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation. Considering that marking the above-mentioned anniversary in 2012 requires financial expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine, according to the requirements of part three of article 91 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the draft regulation should be added to the financial and economic justification. The Ministry of Defence supported the measures envisaged by the Ukraine Peace Operations Order, noting that the establishment in the State of another date of respect for peacekeepers would be contrary to Presidential Decree No. 1583 of 1999. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine has no comments and proposals for the draft Order. On the basis of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine review the draft decree in the first reading to restore its subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to speak on this matter, please sign in. We may have voted, but the honourable colleagues, here is the position one, with everything else to agree, the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not set holidays. [[B in m in s a l in]] She's not setting up, it's the President's prerogative.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u159	It says, "set July 15th." The Supreme Council cannot establish July 15, Peacekeeper's Day. [[B in m in s a l in]] How's it going first? I'm voting for acceptance as a basis, please be sure. [[13:36:14]] For-174 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[13:36:36]] For 216 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The draft Declaration on Dignity, Freedom and Human Rights is now under review. [[Registration number 7055]] Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Vadim Kolesnichenko The focal point is the head of the Edward Pavlenko subcommittee. Committee proposal: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:37:12]] For 207 Decision taken. Yes, the author, please. Wait, Pawel Alexander, what should I vote for? Head of the Committee on Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u160	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, on February 8, 2012, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations discussed the draft Declaration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Dignity, Freedom and Human Rights, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kolesnick. [[Registration number 7055]] In discussing the project, members of the committee noted that the declaration implemented the basis for teaching the Russian Orthodox Church about dignity, freedom and human rights. That is, the document represents the church’s view of such important categories of social life as human rights, freedom and dignity. At the same time, the Ukrainian State, coming out of the principle of freedom of conscience and religion enshrined in international treaties and in the Constitution of Ukraine, does not make a difference in the treatment of religious organizations operating in its territory within the limits defined by valid legislation. The members of the committee also noted that the text of the draft was undeclared and composed of a preamble and an operative part, which contained a mandate from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and placed control over the implementation of the declaration on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project also identifies the main areas of human rights protection, and it should be noted that in 1999, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the principles of public policy in the field of human rights. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Declaration on the Dignity, Freedom and Human Rights to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u161	Who insists on the performance? Nobody. The Committee's conclusion, once again, is to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further work. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules, I place the first rule of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of the draft Declaration on Dignity, Freedom and Human Rights. [[Registration number 7055]] Please be sure. [[13:39:58]] For-0 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Well, respectable colleagues, if at least a man of 50 voted, could be working. If there's zero support, well, there's no logic. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] [[Registration number 9319]] It's a suggestion to consider the issue of an accelerated procedure. [[13:40:39]] For 204 Decision taken. Reporter: Edward Pavlenko, please. Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u162	Dear Head, dear colleagues! On February 8, 2012, at its meeting, the committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act, dated 20.10.2011, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Knazević. [[on the improvement of individual positions]] [[Registration number 9319]] The bill is designed to improve the mechanism for the implementation of the constitutional right to appeal to public authorities, local self - government, businesses, institutions and organizations by granting the right to make an electronic appeal. To this end, it is suggested that specific articles of the Ukrainian Law should be amended to refer citizens to the possibility of making a request in the form of an electronic document. At the same time, it is suggested that we do not consider references that cannot identify the person and establish the validity of his or her authorship. Today, an electronic digital signature is used to identify the person who signed the electronic document. It is an essential element of an electronic document. At the same time, in the vast majority of citizens, electronic signatures are not available and not all types of the population are able to pay for them. In addition, the absence of an electronic documenting system in many local authorities will not contribute to the implementation of the bill. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations believes that the bill proposed cannot be supported. Therefore, he proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration in the first reading that its subject be restored to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-05-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, who would like to speak on this matter? Are there no wanters? Dear colleagues, and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, and the committee are proposing that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. However, once again, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the bill as a basis, please be determined. [[Registration number 9319]] [[13:43:13]] For-0 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine is under review. [[on the acquisition of legal power by judicial decisions in administrative matters immediately]] [[Registration number 9426]] Suggestion: To consider the matter under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:43:50]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Decision taken, I'm sorry. The reporter is Dmitri Sphenov. The narrator is Julia Ljovczyna. Please sign up for a discussion. Who insists on the performance? None. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office is of the view that it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be returned for further work. I'm betting on voting for the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 9426]] Please make a decision. [[13:44:49]] For 1 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Parliamentary Control of the Implementation of Decisions of the European Court of Human Rights is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9489]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:45:21]] For 217 Decision taken. Who, respected colleagues, the author. I'm on my way. Who insists on discussing the matter? Nobody? The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. I'm voting to see what the support is, first, on the basis of a draft decision on the basis. [[Registration number 9489]] Based on the base. [[13:46:10]] For two. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[13:46:34]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment. [[9596]] [[on the introduction of mechanisms to support the development of entrepreneurial activities and the creation of new jobs]] At the same time, the author of the bill made a request to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw the bill. So we need to put to the vote a motion to withdraw from the draft law. [[Registration number 9596]] Please vote for the withdrawal. [[13:47:37]] For 249 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now about to discuss with you the draft Law on some of the issues of the debt of enterprises of the defence and industrial complex, the participants of the state firm Ucroborinprom, and ensuring their sustainable development. [[Registration number 10034]] At the same time, the National Security and Defence Committee addressed a letter this morning, in view of the fact that it did not receive the same offer from the Cabinet of Ministers again, to postpone consideration of the law. Although again for legal clarity, the committee can and should consider even if there are no recommendations from the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, I would like to support the committee and postpone the consideration of this bill. Is there no objection? You don't have to vote? Let's vote for the National Security and Defence Committee's proposal to postpone consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 10034]] Please vote. [[13:49:04]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the matter again. I'd like to ask, let's still listen to the position of the committee. I'm voting for a return to the question of delaying the consideration of the bill. We've worked so well, please support. [[13:49:37]] For 227 We're back. I'm betting on a vote to postpone the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 10034]] Please vote. To the committee's proposal. [[13:50:01]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! We need attention, please! – to include in the agenda a series of bills on which the President of Ukraine refers to their urgent consideration and the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a draft Act amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Waste Act. [[on medical waste]] [[Registration number 10555]] I'm betting on voting for the inclusion in the agenda of this bill, it's a government bill. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[13:50:50]] For 257 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on Prices and Prices. [[9361]] [[government]] Please vote. [[13:51:16]] For 254 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act some Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of the fight against terrorism. [[Registration number 10552]] Please vote. [[13:51:51]] For 256 Decision taken. The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending article 259 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for the alleged misreporting of the threat to the safety of citizens (registration number 10553) is put to the vote. I mean, first of all, anonymous calls. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, these jokes cost the state dearly. Please vote. [[13:52:32]] For 258. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for the illegal treatment of weapons and explosive materials]] [[Registration number 10554]] [[government]] Please vote. [[13:53:07]] For 258. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just included in the morning session a series of drafts by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To the extent that we are willing to attend the evening meeting, we should consider them, including those we have decided on for the last time. Then, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We'll continue in plenary mode for 16 hours. Let us consider the questions that we have in our day - to - day schedule.
