ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[15:59:51]] Registered -338 Three hundred and thirty - eight national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Two factions: the Faction BUT, Fatherland, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" have made a request for a recess in order to be able to make a statement. A statement will be made by Michael Tomenko. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw attention from two factions: "Fatherhood" and "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" to a bill that was passed inconspicuously without discussion and without second reading. I think that if this bill becomes effective, I'm surprised at the fact that there is such a mad and aggressive struggle for the right to be a national deputy and work for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the budget process is virtually banned in the Ukrainian Parliament, after the adoption of the bill on the All-U.S. referendum, I understand that the constitutional process is completely taken up in Parliament. If someone who voted with joy for the Law on the All-U.S. referendum, not reading it without second reading in general, I would like to point out that this bill foresees the possibility of holding an all-U.S. referendum for the adoption of a new constitution that the President of the People's Initiative can announce, and we know how Leonid Kuchma did it. As a result of such a referendum, which the President is initiating, a new edition of the Co-ordination is being submitted to the referendum, and according to article 95, the new edition of the Constitution of Ukraine takes effect on the day of the announcement by the Central Electoral Commission of the results of the all-U.S. referendum on the approval of the new edition in the entire Ukrainian referendum. This means that after the parliamentary election campaign, the Constitutional Assembly is preparing a draft Constitution, a people, a simple Ukrainian people who sleeps and sees that they have the right to choose the President of Ukraine in paws, they will grant him the right through the governors to collect the corresponding signatures at the national initiative. The referendum will introduce a new version of the Constitution. Then, as these elections have shown, we have villages where almost 101 percent voted for money and under pressure, and so the new Constitution will be adopted in the referendum. Which, I understand, after today's election results, suggests that the President's election be transferred to Parliament to do anything with the Constitution. After that, Parliament cannot even discuss, not change, but debate. Because the CEC signed the results of this referendum and the situation ended. I'd like to address the MPs who will be in the next seventh call. You want me to take away this right in Parliament, which is enshrined in the Constitution? So let's get everything to Parliament, like I said. You're going to be in public ambush once a month, and they're going to give you a list of how to vote. And they're going to give a set, a bottle of vodka and candy, just like it was in Soviet times. Have a conscience! Protect Parliament! Because without a parliament in this country, soon one man and his family will rule this country. Both deputies from different factions and from the Party of Regions will be ashamed of such a country. For which we must represent not only inside but also abroad. That's why we're going to press charges. We will register the order to revoke this vote. And we hope that we will not have the President elected in Parliament, but will elect his Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! We are moving on to the draft legislation that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to include in the agenda. This is a draft decision to refer the Central Electoral Commission to the election of Ukrainian national deputies in one-maned constituencies. The reporter is National Deputy Kozub. And the co-reporter from the committee, who's going to be speaking? Sinchenko. There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. You will speak, I beg of you. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:04:34]] For 202 Decision taken. Alexander Kozub, please. Then, from the committee, Sinchenko, and the Podgorno special thought, he'll also have a right. And Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u4	Respectful colleagues, considering the importance of the issue, were given a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 11398, which foretold the following. Recommend that the Central Election Commission appoint, in accordance with part two of article 104 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies of Ukraine, the re-election of Ukrainian National Deputies in one-member constituencies: Nos 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223 and ensure that they are held in accordance with the law. In order to determine the amount of budgetary expenditure required for the re-election of Ukrainian national deputies in one-maned constituencies: Nos. 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, within the limits of its mandate, take urgent measures to ensure that the re-election of Ukraine’s national deputies is financed in accordance with established procedures in one-seat constituencies: Nos. 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u5	== sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 6 November 2012, considered the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appeal of the Central Electoral Commission for the election of national deputies in one-mandom constituencies by numbers: 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223 submitted by the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Alexander Andriyovich, as well as the decision of the Central Electoral Commission of 5 November 2012 at number 1931 on the implausibility of credible establishment of voting summaries and the results of the elections of the national deputies of Ukraine on 28 October 2012 in one-man election districts under the terms of 94, 133, 194, 197 and 223. [[Registration number 11398 from 06.11.2012]] After hearing information from the head of the subcommittee on electoral legislation and mergers of citizens of Horny Sergey Petrovic, members of the committee, having discussed the matter in a comprehensive manner, the committee agreed with the purpose of re-election of the Ukrainian National Deputies in the one-maned constituencies and with a majority of votes, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appeal of the Central Electoral Commission for the election of the Ukrainian People's Deputies in one-maned constituencies of 94, 132, 194, 197 and 223 as a result of the consideration of the first reading to accept as a basis and as a whole. [[Registration number 11398]] A separate point was made by the committee’s first deputy head. Citizens of Podgorny Sergey Petrovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u7	Thank you. Sergey Petrovich, please give your speech with a separate mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u8	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! What is happening in the country today? The government, with an unsatisfying result in elections in one-maned constituencies, is trying to corrupt the will of the electorate, the citizens of Ukraine. And so where she loses, where so-called self-reliants are losing from the party of power, she's still trying to execute her candidates, and for that, yesterday, pressure was exerted on the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, who in violation of the Electoral Law, in violation of the Constitution, in violation of the Central Electoral Commission Act, he suggested to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it should not take a legal decision. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the initiative of one of the deputies, is also trying to violate the Electoral Law and recommend that the Central Election Commission take a non-legal decision. There is no authority in the Central Election Commission in the Law on Elections of National Deputies to appoint such re-elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u9	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u10	the Central Election Commission is talking about. That's why we think that the only thing that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can do today is to tell the Central Electoral Commission to make an estimate of the totals of the voting in the districts in which it is. There are original protocols, there are video material, there are facts and there are complaints, there are acts, you can do all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u11	Thank you. Yes, Olga Bodnar, please have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u12	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Honorable colleagues, respected radio audiences and TV viewers, a valid law that so actively promoted by the present authorities does not provide for a mechanism for the recognition of elections such that there are no grounds for reelection, except in cases provided for in the law. He won one-on-one, gave up his mandate, died, and so on Moreover, according to articles 95 and 96 of the 12th, it is not possible at all to recognize elections of either multimandate or one - mandating choice. Is there any reason to believe that CEC is not currently able to establish the truth at the designated locations? Why them? Why such a comprehensive selective approach? There are protocols, there are ballots. where the CCS is unable to perform its function, the calculation and the setting of results, according to the current legislation, should be carried out by the CEC, this shall be provided directly. After all, there's no such legislative act as bringing the CLTC to the Supreme Council, on the basis of which the last one, I remind you, is a legislative body, has to make a decision. It's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u13	Finish up, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u14	Thank you. In doing so, the law does not provide for a similar function on the part of the Council in order to assume the authority of the CLTC. Let me remind you, the Supreme Council is not a political and legal body, no matter what anyone wants, but a legislative body, the only one in this function. I repeat, the question is, why did these areas prove to be so complex to establish the will of the one-maned districts? That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u15	Thank you. Thank you, Olga Borisovna. Dear colleagues, please sign up. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Stanislaw Arzewittin's handing over the right to speak. To whom, Stanislaw Arjevitin?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u16	Pass it on to radical Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u17	Oleg Lazko, please. Then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u18	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear voters, honourable fellow citizens! What's going on in the Supreme Council right now is pure water shucking, cheating. A party of regions, authorities, falsified elections in three dozen constituencies in Ukraine. Today they call some of these districts "so-called problem districts." What's the so-called problem area, citizens of honor? It's destroyed ballot papers, it's forged protocols, it's all of a sudden the board members got sick from the head to the deputy members and so on. That's what they mean by "so-called troubled districts." "So-called troubled district" is your stolen voices, your esteemed Ukrainians. When in 94 districts, the Kyiv region, the opposition candidate won the difference between the opposition candidate and the drought candidate 10,000 votes. They took the ballot papers. The court found that the results were invalid in those areas where the candidate from the opposition won and said that the winner was a candidate from power. And when people don't agree, they say this district is so called problematic and let's go to a new election. And 30,000 votes of Ukrainian citizens were stolen. The same terms are "problem districts": Mikolaiyevich region, Vinnitsk district, Cherkas region, Kiev, de Bondar, my colleague, Alexander Mikolaiovich fought for votes, 223 district, where Freedom candidate Levchenko won, and that's why this district is problematic. So all the districts where the opposition won are called problem districts. What about those districts where the authorities drew 90 percent of the appearance and 80 percent of the support? Isn't that a problem district? We're not in trouble, we're not called that, we're in trouble with all of Ukraine. Because we have that kind of power, because we have that kind of C.V.C.C. So problems with Ukraine, not with separate districts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u19	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, then Alexander Steshenko will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u20	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, and let us answer one key question. And what is at the heart of those technical mistakes, those that are in different districts, in different areas in the West, in the East, and in Kiev. And let us take courage and acknowledge that the law that has been passed with you is at the heart of it. But not the whole law, that's the compromise part that you insisted on, and we agreed, liberally agreed, for the adoption of the law. If the law had been passed in our paper, the elections would have ended long ago, everyone had already counted, there would have been no problem. But when we went to the meeting and the compromise that you made, and he turned out to be such a bobblehead, if that's what you're saying, that compromise. As a result, there are serious squabbles in the elections. Therefore, in those areas where it is difficult for us to make decisions with you and the district commissions and the electoral commissions and the CFC, I suppose, as I say again, under the Constitution, power must be taken over by the people. And no CFC, no county commission, no polling stations, and the people, as the source and bearer of power, have to take the ballot, throw the urn and judge who is to blame. If anyone wants to appeal to the people, I'm sorry, you don't look very good. The people are the source and bearer of power; we are not with you, we are servants of the people. That is why the solution is correct, we recommend that the CLTC in five troubled districts appoint an election, that the people determine their electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u21	Yuri Hanustzak of the Faction "BUT is "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u22	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to the plane of the law, the same rule. Hence, from the outset, this provision cannot be made in the first and final reading, as they say. And I'm stressing that then there's no such thing as that then they're making a statement. Why? Even if you vote in favour of this decree, according to this law, which has been passed, there are at least two districts where ballot papers, original documents, and where elections should be announced at the same time. So this is 11, 14 districts, you have to add it. Plus three districts, where it turns out to be a very interesting situation, the number of votes cast in favour exceeds the number of people voting. This is District 41, Donetsk. The question is, why would you even be there to fake it? This is District 66 and this is District 93. These five districts need to be added to the areas where we can still win. And another position that needs to be added. In those districts that are now going to be declared to be re-elections, before that, there have to be a court decision to put in jail who has allowed the fact that we are now forced to spend budgetary costs, particularly largely in order to do the re-elections again. The fact that we win is clear, but those who are guilty of spending money should go to jail. Otherwise, the voters will cease to respect us because they want to see that we are the people who are responsible for their decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u23	Thank you. Thank you. Alexander Bondar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u24	The All - Ukrainian Freedom Union, Alexander Bondar. I spent more than a week in 223 districts, so I'll just touch him, he got into this regulation by accident, he doesn't have anything to do with the letter that's addressed to the CIA, because there's a way to establish the results of the election, there's no damaged ballots, there's protocols in the safe, there's just the inaction of the district commission, which for the second week doesn't want to acknowledge the victory of Yuri Lewchenk. So I'm asking you to remove 223 districts from this order and go separately to CBC so that it can take responsibility for determining the winner in 223 districts. All the protocols are already on all the websites on the Internet, both the winner and the winners, all know the observers who won the 900 votes. So what is the impossibility of finding a winner in this district? I ask you once again 223 counties not to consider this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. This morning, I offered to make a decision that would generalize the mood of the MPs. They shouted, they were disagreeable, just as they disagreed with the draft ruling. The Central Election Commission has asked, the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not have the right to appoint elections. I think the Supreme Council, let's. Just a minute. Let the Supreme Council thus return these appeals to the Central Electoral Commission. Rightly said Yuri Hanustzak, that the trial would likely continue to be related to the courts. It is best if the court finds that it is impossible to count the votes, and then there will be no other way out of this decision. At the same time, respected colleagues, I am obliged to do so. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the request of the Central Electoral Commission for election of Ukrainian national deputies in one-maned constituencies: 94, 132, 194, 197, 223. This is a reaction to the Central Election Commission's appeal. Registration number 11398. Please vote. [[16:22:18]] For 268. Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 192, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – zero, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 3, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Excise Tax Tax on Substances, which is used as components of motor fuels. [[Registration number 11395]] The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:23:15]] For 219 Decision taken. Reporter is Deputy Minister of Energy of the Coal Industry Vladimir Makuha, please. Homutinnik will be speaking from the committee. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u26	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s Amendment to the Tax Code on Taxation Taxes on Substances Used as Components of Motor Fuels, Prepared to Deal With Questions and Disability of Use of Certain Substances of Control in Counteractive Motor Fuels of Certain Chemical Productions, Benzene of Raw Stonewall, Methanol Technical as Components. I want to point out that Ukraine's oil market is important for the continuous functioning of the national economy, as well as a major source of public budget filling. In recent years, the market for petroleum products has identified the availability of counterfeit products that are produced using individual chemical products as components. Statistics show that some 160,000 tons of crude coal benzene was produced in Ukraine during 2011. At the same time, only 34,000 tons of benzene was used for organic synthesis products in the chemical industry. Thus, some 125,000 tons of benzene were directed, including the production of counterfeit motor fuels. It should be noted that benzene concentrations are higher than government standards for motor fuels, resulting in a significant increase in environmental pollution in internal combustion engines and a threat to human health and life. Also, some industries use methane, which is a highly toxic substance, to produce counterfeit motor fuels as a component. The high concentration of methanol in motor fuels poses a threat to human health and life. The bill proposes that excise taxes should be paid for the implementation of crude coal and methanol benzene for industrial purposes other than chemical industries. Substantial declines in the economic effect of adding the substances to motor fuels will lead to a reduction in the production of counterfeits.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u27	Thank you, sit down, please. Vitaly Hometic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Regrettably, the committee was unable to review the law immediately because it only appeared yesterday. But we did, in the line of work, consult with our colleagues. And in principle, the right suggestions, but I still have to point out that there is no committee decision on this project. So for the consideration of the hall, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as well. As it happens, only today did we get this project. Perhaps if, if possible, you can take it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u29	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please sign up, Your Honor. Yes, please, Grivkowski. He's refusing. Fedun. He's refusing. Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u30	Please convey to the protest the person supported by 221,000 people in Ukraine, the man with the villas, Oleg Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Grigorovich. Comrade Martinyuk has just dropped the line, and I'm getting more followers. Does the frog push you? Millions of people support the Radical Party and me. Why? Because unlike you, we protect people's interests. And you're sitting, twenty thousand pensions, twenty thousand wages, and you're not doing anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u32	Let's do it on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u33	And now on the subject. And now on the subject. From Mr. Makuha, the honorable Mr. Makuha comes out. He's talking about lowering taxes on some kind of fire extinguisher. Yeah? Dear government officials, you have to introduce a new version of the Tax Code here. Not locally stretching your business schematics: that's fuel, that's wind energy, that's green energy, that's something else. You have to bring a new version of the Tax Code to Parliament because that Tax Code you adopted two years ago, in which the country lives, it destroyed hundreds of thousands of businesses, it left millions of Ukrainian citizens unemployed, and it's your fault, government officials, your fault! We take first place in the world in the number of taxes and congregations, 138 taxes and congregations. No economy, no living thing can survive on such taxes, at this amount and at this level of taxes. Unfortunately, you didn't run an electoral campaign, and if you were seeing people like me, like other deputies, you'd hear what they're asking. People ask: How can they live, how can they feed their families, where can they earn a penny? When an unhappy woman goes out to the market, sells a chicken, she turns to bribes. And everyone wants to bribe. She hasn't made any money yet, and they want to take it. So task number one in Ukraine is a radical tax cut. Otherwise, we will be reared, just as we are today far from the world. Today, the former republics of the Union are setting an example for us to carry out reforms. Although we had the best start-up options. So task number one is the resignation of the government, the change of power and the adoption of the new Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u34	Thank you. I think it will be necessary to actively use the knowledge of Oleg Lalach on the committees in the formation of the new Supreme Council. [[I mean, in committee laundry.]] Maybe in tax. Politics and banking. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on excise duty rates on substances used as components of motor fuels]] [[Registration number 11395]] Please vote. [[16:30:33]] For 252 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is being announced for consideration. financing of the differences in fuel tariffs for the population. [[Registration number 11396]] The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. I don't think you should pass on the right to speak now. [[16:31:13]] For 222 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Minister. Again, Vladimir Makuha. The committee will be chaired by Valérie Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u35	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! A bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 has been drafted to address the issue of debt relief from the difference in tariffs for heat energy for the population in 2011-2012. [[on the financing of the differences in fuel tariffs for the population]] At present, the situation is depriving the thermal power companies of the ability to provide adequate accounts for the natural gas they consume, making it impossible to calculate NAC Naftogaz Ukraine on time and in full terms with the suppliers of imported natural gas, and endangering the continuous passage of the heating season. In order to address the issue of the repayment of existing debt from a difference in tariffs on heat energy for the population, the reduction of the existing debt of electricity undertakings for natural gas consumed, the timely and full calculation of the costs of imported natural gas suppliers, it is necessary at the legislative level to determine additional sources of financing of subsidies to cover the loan from a difference in tariffs to thermal energy. To date, the only way to pay off the outstanding differences in heat tariffs for the population formed during 2011-2012 and unliquidated is to finance the corresponding subsidies at the expense of the General Fund of the State Budget. This bill is submitted to the Supreme Council. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u36	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valerius Baranov. Please, the Committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u37	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Budget Affairs has considered draft Law 11396, which provides for the General Fund of the State Budget to grant subsidies to local budgets to pay off the difference in tariffs for thermal energy in the amount of 7.7 billion dollars. In general, the bill provides for an increase in the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget and a corresponding increase in the deficit of the General Fund of the State Budget, by establishing a source of funding for domestic government borrowing. At the same time, if the source of the financial provision of the expenditure is to be provided for government borrowing, it is necessary to increase the amount of government debt and to amend article 5 of the Law, but it is noted. is not provided for in this bill. Moreover, the bill does not meet the requirements of standard-setting techniques for drafting bills to amend the State budget, such as amending article 5 of the law to list appendices in the text bill and misnumbering it, and such other errors. At the same time, we discussed the bill in the plenary today. Then, in order to ensure budgetary balance, it will be necessary to clarify the state budget summary indicators in the text and in additions to the bill, taking into account the analogous bills adopted before considering the project. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council draft law 11396 to adopt as a basis and as a whole, as a law taking into account the Committee's proposals, as set out in the letter on the organization and clarification of the text of bills and additions thereto, and the need to ensure the balance of the budgetary indicators, taking into account approved draft legislation. Accordingly, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of the bill if adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u38	Microphone. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u39	Clarification. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, please prepare for. That's how it all started out. Please sign up for the discussion. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u41	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, I literally called on the address of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine a month ago on behalf of the Lubenian Territorial Society on this issue that we are talking about. But I was very reassured by the Cabinet of Ministers that there is no such problem, even though it is extremely awesome for the whole state. So the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. But I would like to turn to today and draw attention to the fact that all the local budget accounts and local budgets have been blocked are virtually unaccounted for. Including the preparation of all heating power systems for the new heating season. This practice is shameful. It moves from one government to another. And today it is practically destroying Ukraine’s budget system and the local budgeting, their commitment to all the host structures. Therefore, the question also needs to be unlocked, not to wait for the new year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is a nation's self-defence". Oleg Lazko. The next one will be Ganushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u43	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Dear fellow citizens! There's a crime going on in front of your eyes. The government has taken the initiative to increase the debt gap by 8 billion dollars. Now, during the meetings, women asked me, "How do we feed the children when we get help from the state 200 dollars a month?" People don't pay 200 dollars a month to feed their children. Right now, in three minutes, a reduced procedure in Parliament is extending the law to increase the debt burden on each of you, the honourable Ukrainians, by 8 billion dollars. And where will that money go? It is said that there is a difference in the cost of tariffs. But I would like to remind you that this summer, the Supreme Council of the Oligarchs, the owners of the private oligarchs, wrote off their debt of 24 billion dollars! So in order for the oligarchs, the owners of the private oligarchs to kick money out, there's no use for that in the state. And 70,000 taxpayers don't know how to kick that money back into the budget. And to increase the debt burden, that's enough gossip in the government. That is why I am adamantly opposed to this law. We believe that the owners of the private sector should compensate the state, pay off Naftogazu's debts for the gas they consume, not translate their own problems into the Ukrainian budget, because for these tens and hundreds of billions of dollars of government debt we have to count with you, the residents of Donbas, the inhabitants of Lviv, the inhabitants of Montenegro, the inhabitants of Kharkivshtschi -- every Ukrainian has to pay thousands of dollars for the short policies of the current government, the current government and the Party of Regions. It is time to end this anti - Ukrainian policy radically!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u44	Yuri Hanustak, please. Faction "BUT" is "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u45	Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Ladies and gentlemen, we are becoming more and more like Greece. So we're being lowered to the level where we still have to take very unpopular measures. Why? This is the first extension of the debt hole. Second, extremely large, expensive loans. It's extremely expensive, about three times more expensive than the loans that civilized countries take. Why? They don't believe us. We don't believe in politics because we decided we were the strongest there and so forth. Remember, dictatorship can only be done if you have oil. We don't have it. So we have to work on civilized rules. Now. Do not build up illusions. Those lobbyists who sit there, that when they go through their projects, they go into the budget, it's going to be funded. The practice of Minfin, which is going on now, is that when there's no real money and there's no real money, trust me. Why? Because the forecast was: growth is 4 percent of GDP. In reality, there's just more than one. So we have a budget failure. Thus, the practice shows that with the ability to regulate manually, it is necessary to finance what is primarily needed. This is what Kabmin uses. And most of those lobby projects that you voted on before, they're not going to be funded. But Kabmin also reached out to the local budgets at the festivals of the saints. And now it's really not funding what you're going to be going out on. These are social programs. It's not financed, the budget system's broken. I'm most sorry because I'm her in my own time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u46	Thank you. Gregory Smythech, please. The faction of the Party of the Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, from year to year, we are discussing this issue, because the difficult question, in my opinion, is for our population. And the tariff that today is in energy supply for our homes in many cities is irresistible, given that we have world prices for gas, oil, and so on, and that the population’s income is far behind the average of even the price of Europe. In my opinion, there are two problems that need to be addressed. And I think it's going to be a new Parliament to ask this question. Why did it happen that we have a sector like the energy and oil industry that's profitable all over the world? Why did it happen that in our companies that consume electricity and heat, tariffs are higher than they are, electricity is exported abroad. Double. Why do our industrial enterprises, which carry all the social burdens, including retirement, why do we pay twice as much for electricity as we export, for example, to Belarus, and then compete with their products? So I think we have a lot of questions for the Ministry of Energy, and these issues need to be addressed. Because I agree with some of the people's deputies saying that sooner or later this question is going to drag us into a hole. And this pit, it's going to be hard for all the people to get out. I think that, of course, we need to solve these issues and we need to meet the population, and we need to decide something about this today, because we don't have the authority to pay off this debt. But at the same time, it is an archelic problem for our nation, which needs to be reformed, and the sooner the better. But it needs to be reformed in a comprehensive way. And this is a general problem and a program for our next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There is a motion for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2012 on the financing of debt in different ways and on tariffs for heat energy for the population, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Right? Please vote. [[16:44:53]] For 254 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u49	The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u50	Okay, okay. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 177, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 4, communists – 23, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 11. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that you consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the operation of the wholesale electricity market. The committee suggests that the issue be considered by means of an accelerated procedure. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u51	What do we vote for?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u52	For quitting. [[16:45:39]] For 212 Decision taken. The reporter is Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich, head of the National Commission. Please, Alexander Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u53	I apologize to my colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and you, we were just discussing this bill. There is a proposal to move it for a week, and it requires substantial work. It may be that the bill is necessary, and if we fail to vote now, there may be some failure, we may have problems. Therefore, please move for a week, and we can come back to the bill in a week.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, I will put this proposal to the vote. At the same time, I must inform you that the government has repeatedly asked for this very law to be passed without delay. As long as you insist, I understand that this will not happen, I'm putting to the vote a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 11393]] [[16:47:00]] For 255 Decision taken. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the extension of instruments of influence on the monetary and credit market is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 11033]] I would like to vote on the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:47:31]] For 223 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Head of the National Bank, Valérie Prokhorenko. The reporter is Vitaly Homutinnick. All right, let's get a summary right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u55	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The main objective of the National Bank’s monetary and credit policy in 2012 and the medium-term perspective is to ensure the stability of Ukraine’s monetary unit. The experience of the National Bank in overcoming the economic and financial crisis demonstrates the significant impact of external negative shocks on Ukraine’s economy, particularly its currency market, and the need to respond quickly to the challenges identified. One such tool that is necessary for the implementation is the requirement for the mandatory sale of monetary revenues. The implementation of this requirement aims to ensure a balanced position in Ukraine’s currency market, reduce the negative impact of speculative operations, and protect international gold reserves. Another tool to influence the currency market is to allow the National Bank temporarily, for up to 6 months, to change the duration of the Ukrainian residents' accounts for exports and imports of goods. The purpose of temporary shortening of statutory periods, the calculation of resident export-import operations is caused by the need for tighter controls in a period of unstable world economy. Please also note that the National Bank of Ukraine, in agreement with the Committee, has made editorial changes to the bill. In particular, article 25, paragraph 7, of the National Bank Act, which reads as follows: “Implementation for a period of up to 6 months of mandatory sale of the part of the proceeds in foreign currency”. Period. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u56	Yes, Vitaly Hometic, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u57	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the National Bank, in the order of the legislative initiative, has passed a bill that has just been presented. It aims to secure the right to impose provisional rules on the mandatory sale of a part of the foreign currency. The bill also proposes that the National Bank be given the right to temporarily change the limits of the accounts for export operations and imports of goods. The National Bank has the right to apply for a term of up to six months. The innovations proposed by the National Bank are relevant to maintaining stability in the currency market in today’s conditions. What has been said is that the arguments that have been put forward by the Deputy Head of the National Bank have been supported by the committee and the committee proposes to adopt the draft law on a basis and in general. The only thing that was expressed by the representative of the National Bank, I will also read for the transcript, "Exclusion from the second paragraph of article 2, paragraph 1, of section 2 of the bill and the words "for the benefit of external economic activities". So it's going to go like this, in this paragraph, it's going to be like, "Implementing for up to six months a requirement for the mandatory sale of part of the foreign currency proceeds." Period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u58	Thank you. Have a seat. Sign up, please, who is it? Names, please. Moshak refuses. Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I personally share the opinion and position of the National Bank that it should have such a tool that it can allow to influence the currency market. The point is that all businesses today sell at least 50 percent of their earnings. And the fact that 180 days, the return date, can also be regulated by the National Bank. In principle, this tool is needed by the National Bank. But once again I wanted to emphasize it must be a short tool, it must be a temporary tool. And today, a representative of the National Bank and the head of our committee talked about this, that it's a temporary tool for six months. But let's say in law that this isn't just for six months. Please tell me, if it's six months later, you can re-announce six months later, then again six months or two to take a break. So I think we should write this rule more clearly. If it is urgent in a crisis, we should remember that the currency is the property of the owners and we do not have the right to restrict it as we consider it necessary, it must be special conditions. Therefore, I propose only in the first reading to accept, to document the topic of the temporary prohibition on the property of our Ukrainians. Next. When we talk about the 180 - day term, in fact, we should remember that we had a conflict. Because under the Constitution, foreign economic activity is regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers. And here we really have to agree that the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't see this as correct. Therefore, we should also work on a standard that applies to a more hasty return or, on the contrary, may allow it. Because the current norm of the National Bank, which is also recorded, can be interpreted in two ways. So, ladies and gentlemen, I will generally share the opinion and position of the National Bank, but only on the first reading, please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u60	Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! It doesn't leave us feeling like we're going to solve the problem on the wrong side. In large accounts, the situation is clear, the economy is falling, industrial production is collapsing, the global financial crisis is continuing, the global markets are collapsing, the traditional markets for our industrial production, that is, at risk of currency coming, that is, at risk of national currency stability, that is clear. On a stable bracelet today, exporters, that's what they think and that's what analysts think, of course exporters lose. The cost of production can't even stand the competition of traditional South East Asian markets where we've been in a very comfortable position, China from a metal importer has become an exporter. It's getting harder and harder to compete. The question is understandable. The devaluation is probably imminent in order to support a blue export. Devaluation expectations provoke the population to collect currency and it is also understandable to deal with appropriate market mechanisms, but it is again silently not the average one, and it is said that a large part of the foreign exchange proceeds resides abroad in offshore areas. When a bill is finally introduced, which has the right to make only government, because it's interstate agreements to cancel the agreement with Cyprus. Now, according to the different estimates that today can only be made for an expert environment that I don't have in my hands, between $15 billion and $30 billion is the price of the issue in offshore areas of the escape of our foreign exchange. I'm afraid this bill will further strengthen the escape. And instead of a positive effect, we can have an even more negative effect. This disgraceful phenomenon, called the flight of capital into the offshore, needs to be rectified. And then the currency proceeds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u62	Finish it, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u63	And then the currency proceeds remain in the country or even if it pays the tax as paid by all owners. Let's go to the second reading, agreed with colleague Arjevetin, and let's take a look at this last rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u64	They're all here. Gregory Smythech, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u65	Thank you. The stability of the national currency is the basis for the stability of our development and economic potential in Ukraine. And in recent years, the stability of the national currency has given our population confidence in the fact that we have at least some kind of developing stability, thanks to the new leadership of the National Bank. Their merit is great because you remember what the results were in 2008 and 2009 under the former leadership of the National Bank, and how did this lead? This led to the loss of a third of our citizens’ savings. That's one problem. But the second problem, along with this law, in my view, we're giving, on the one hand, an opportunity to fill national currency reserves, on the other hand, we're giving more severe or more. The conditions for exporters that make this currency. And this is definitely going to hit those companies that are exporting or making money in the external market. In my opinion, what should we do? You know, there are a lot of banks in our market, including foreign banks. The foreign banks that are located in our territory are functioning on an unfair and unequal, uncompetitive basis in relation to the countries where they came from.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u66	Yes, thank you all for sitting down. Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Indeed, the arguments for this bill are well founded and we should first think about the economic situation in the country and the strengthening of the national currency. Therefore, the proposals proposed in the project do not oblige anyone to sell the currency. They provide certain opportunities for the National Bank to use such a mechanism if necessary. So the committee, once again, proposes to adopt the bill as a whole, taking into account the phrase I said in the rostrum, in order to take account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's take it this way, let's listen to the committee head's advice. If not, no. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to extend the instruments of influence to the monetary and credit market, taking into account the proposals put forward by the committee head. Please vote. Registration number 11033. [[16:59:47]] For 237 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement is being announced for consideration. [[on the purchase of works related to the operation of the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 11386]] The Committee strongly demands that the issue be addressed in a simplified manner. I have to put this proposal to the vote. Please vote. [[17:00:29]] For 208 Decision taken. The reporter is the deputy head of Nazbank Valeriy Prokhorenko. The committee will be represented by Yuri Voropeyev. Yes, a summary, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u69	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement is proposed. [[on the purchase of works related to the operation of the National Bank of Ukraine]] The bill provides for the exemption of the National Bank of Ukraine from the use of the procurement procedure in the case of works related to design, the production of protected paper, banknotes, coins and state rewards of Ukraine, their storage, transportation and accounting, as well as the work related to the operations of the National Bank of Ukraine to ensure the management of gold reserves, their placement, purchase and sale on the secondary market of securities, foreign exchange intervention through purchase, and the sale of foreign exchange values in foreign markets. The need for adoption of the bill is due to the fact that the National Bank is exposed to the danger of publicizing information about values and objects belonging to the State, particularly when determining on the competitive basis of the contractors, there is a wide range of participants in competitive procedures with the scope of their work, providing them with access to information on the design of buildings, premises, and money deposits of the National Bank, their drawings, plans of surfaces, technical projects, and so on. The bill is also supplemented by another part, a committee. on the proposal of the Economic Policy Committee, which the National Bank does not object to. Please consider the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u70	Yes, Yuri Voropeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, the honourable Chairman, the bill has been considered today by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, and the Committee recommends that it be adopted as a basis and as a whole. As you understand, the manufacturer of the production or storage of money, coins and so on cannot be selected on a tender basis. It's not right, it's just been made, you see, a technical mistake we made earlier in the previous law. But there is one more request, and I would like to say under the transcript that our Government has concluded an understanding agreement with China. on mutual understanding of cooperation in the implementation of priority agricultural projects. Under this memorandum are State guarantees issued by Kabmin of Ukraine. And there's these. As you know, a commercial loan, which is in this case a commercial loan from China, will be provided by goods from the same country. Therefore, it is not possible to determine on a tender basis who will produce the goods and jobs that China will finance. Therefore, the following words will be added to the draft law after the first paragraph: "The goods, works and services that are provided by the contracting authorities under the guarantees of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine for the financing of agricultural projects as part of the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation in the implementation of priority agricultural projects." [[B in m in s a l in]] Let them say position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u72	I just don't see it in the committee's decision -- what you're proposing. I don't see him here. All right. Please sign in. Please sign up. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u73	Dear National Deputies! I'm just asking you to take a closer look at these issues that we're considering. The point is that now all the purchases are made. And the work that the National Bank is doing. To the National Bank. should not extend the law relating to public procurement for public money. That's right. If the National Bank is building a shelter, someone doesn't want to know what the alarm is and everything else, maybe there's a big circle to keep out of. Would they say, please, if the National Bank is doing other work? For example, he builds a prophylaxis for workers, perhaps a social object. Why should tender procedures not be extended? Who's here to be afraid? Why hide such objects? Therefore, I do not deny that in general there should be a list of objects in the National Bank that do not have tender procedures, where everyone should know and participate publicly. But it must be an exclusive, exhaustive list. Well, you can't let everything get out of hand right now. I don't think that's quite right. If anyone can explain to me what it might be like to do a foreign exchange intervention, it's hard for me to read what it's about, what it's about, what it's about, what it's about to do with foreign exchange interventions now, and what it's not going to be about public procurement. The security of management, one aspect of conservation, you can still understand about the conservation of gold reserves, well, the management of gold reserves and the work that we put in here, the work, well, I don't know who can read it, what it's about. So, ladies and gentlemen, my conclusion is let's take it up on the first reading, and then we'll figure out what list should be, which is not the subject of solicitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u74	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! I'm not going to go into the details of the purchases by the National Bank. As one of the authors said, a technical error and it should simply be considered a technical error in this respect, unless it is possible to make tenders for such things. Well, it's probably a technical error that already cancelled tender procedures for 240 billion government purchases and even a standard: not to publish even a code, these goods and services were purchased by one contractor. That's not what I'm saying. I would like to say that they want to quietly introduce a standard that relates to Chinese commercial credit. Dear friends, the commodity loan Ukrainian agriculture received in the early 1990s. Everyone remembers "john holes" for several hundred million dollars. Where are the john holes, where are those hundreds of millions of dollars? They're paying a federal fine. But here, in this case, notice, perhaps not the State Treasury will pay, probably will pay the State Land Bank to land, probably because this product should also be returned after a certain deadline. As always, we have nothing to give, but you've already put the market in place. And you already have a few million hectares of state-owned Ukrainian land at the State Land Bank just in case. Guys, think about what you're doing. Ten times think about what you are doing. China's commodity loan is an investment in Ukraine. Citizens can come for investment and have all the rights, as citizens of Ukraine, except for one right to vote, and anything else, please. And you say, "There will be no Ukrainian land in the hands of foreigners." That's the kind of decision you quietly pull out of your voice. Surrender yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u76	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u77	I literally have one sentence of the law in force. You know, in our country there's this term: there's a market, and there's a market. And we turned the country into a market. You can't turn the National Bank into a market. The National Bank has specific functions, and you have to do them. And it must be one of the pillars of the stability of our economy, our state. And you can't turn it into a way that, in fact, any person's way, the National Bank has to present a tender and so on and so forth. There's enough qualified people, there's enough responsible people in the public service, and they, I'm sure they're doing it right because they're showing the latest results. But I want to go back to that question that I didn't finish, to the last one. From my point of view today, the National Bank needs to do a few more things. First. Foreign banks can't run a foreign financial policy like this, you know, destructive or predatory when they give 25, 30 percent in the internal market, and 200 percent ensure that there is an asset or other property. So I think the National Bank needs to take on this issue and settle the issue so that we don't have a credit rate above the average European price. Then our businesses will be in equal competition. That's the first question. And the second question. The currency can't walk freely abroad in any country. You are in other countries. The United States of America. Please check in or receive a loan in euros, yen, rubles, or others. The state must care for its national currency, its stability. And stability is clear and clear, specific regulation, and strict regulation of all processes, including work. So I support this bill and I think it needs to be accepted in general and not waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u78	Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u79	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now, in the Supreme Council, they want to extend permission to take three billion dollars of agricultural technology from China to Ukraine. I want to see the authors of these amendments. Come, look into the eyes of the former employees of the Kharkiv Tractor Factory, there were once 40,000 people. Ask them where they are now working and what they are feeding their families. Look into the eyes of former workers in the Herson Combin factory and ask how they feed their families. Because there are imported tractors and import trucks in Ukraine. The Biocerkian Agricultural Company, "The Star" is a Korovograd, ask where are they, the people they work for? How do they make money? These are the results of your policy. And the calculation, as John Kirilenko rightly said, is on earth. Tomorrow the Chinese will take over the Ukrainian land for $3 billion. So I firmly oppose the adoption of this law as a whole. I firmly oppose the adoption of this law at all. Because it's a law that robs Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u80	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of a draft law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the purchase of works related to the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 11386]] Please vote. [[17:13:32]] For 263 Decision taken. A proposal is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u81	But listen, you don't know what this is about. The committee’s task is to prepare it for consideration in the second reading by a reduced procedure, that is, the next plenary week. Please vote. [[17:14:05]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Law on Amendments is being announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u82	Ask us if we can get there, and the Supreme Council will make a decision, it will be over. There they are. A draft Act amending article 8 of the Advertising Act on the prohibition of the pricing of goods, jobs and services is being announced. [[Registration number 11121]] Again, the committee suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:14:59]] For 226 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Sergey Rybak. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your view is on the proposal of a bill amending article 8 of the Advertising Act to prohibit the pricing of goods, jobs, services, and non-financial services in Ukraine. The project establishes a standard that provides that the prices and tariffs indicated in advertising should be shown exclusively in the bracelet. Please be supportive. This will enhance the stability of the national currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u84	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who will be speaking from the committee? The committee's decision. Huh? The question is that it's included, because it's also a September document. Dear colleagues, then, please. The committee's decision is positive. Who insists on the discussion? Please sign up. Yes, only those who sign up. All of it. Yes, Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u85	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u86	Cell phone off, what else do you have? Oh! Please step to the rostrum. No, you don't have to carry equipment to do that, deafening conversations. Right? Please, Vladislav Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must support this bill, because when we support our national currency, it has a positive impact on the economy as a whole. This has a positive impact on production, and this has a positive impact on the level of social standards. This has a positive impact on price stability and on the decline in inflation in the country. As an example, we can consider the situation provided by the Party of Regions and the government under the leadership of Mikola Janović Azarov in recent years. We see that the inflation rate in the state is steadily decreasing. We see that social standards are rising. It was very important that President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic proposed raising social standards. And in order to support this trend, to preserve the growth of the economy, we need to take real steps to support our national unit -- the bracelets. So I propose to everyone to support this bill and thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u88	Yes, please sign in. Names on the board. Yes, Grivkowski, Lukyanov. All right, let's get a new record. Please create a new entry. Yes, last names, please. Oleg Zarubinski. He's refusing. Viacheslav Kirilenko. He's refusing. Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u89	Please hand over Stanislav Mikhailovich Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u90	Vladimir Karpuk, who's it going to be? Mr. Stanislaw Arjewitin, please go to the rostrum. Something doesn't work here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a case where we really need to adopt this bill as a whole. Because I would like to remind you that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, the monetary unit in our country is a bracelet. So all the calculations and everything should be in line with that. This, of course, needs to be supported and accepted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u92	Yes. Yuri Hanustak. Then there's the Chapel. Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u93	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT" - "Paternal" Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted to address you first. Because we've heard something out of the voice today. In particular, the Rules of Procedure for your proposal of 208 have been deleted - one-fourth. But you should have deleted that proposal from the Human Rights Commissioner Act, there in the article, I'm going to say, in part four of article 9, this rule is. And that's what you came up with, that's all out of voice. Next, Adam Ivanovich told of the Counting Commission that it should be accepted here before the election of the Supreme Council. Adam Ivanovich, who will sign the Order on the establishment of the Counting Commission? In the 18th article of the Rules, you changed the second part and the first part. So stop this crap! This was to be placed in the order of the day, not in a voice somewhere underground, where no one knew. There's no such thing as an order of the day. Stop it, I told you, you've been through a lot today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u94	Yes, Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u95	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Well, there will be a brief comment to this bill on behalf of the MP's Reform Group for the Future. That's what he sounds like. This bill has no positive bearing on solving the problem of limitation, let's say, the outflow or instability of the national currency. It is, in our view, purely psychoemotional. In this way, no state in the world has been able to resolve the issue of maintaining the strength of the national currency. We're sure to support him, but he's, you know, a pretty mutiny bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I thank you for your unanimity position. This gives me reason to put to the vote a proposal for a committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole a draft law amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[establishing a ban on the pricing of goods, jobs and services in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 11121]] Please vote. [[17:22:57]] For 266 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is being announced for consideration. [[on the implementation of investment projects]] [[Registration number 11397]] The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[17:23:39]] For 214 Decision taken. Reporter - Vladislav Lukyanov, co-reporter - Valerius Baranov, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Issues today, at its session, considered a bill amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2012 at number 11397. The draft law aims at ensuring the continued financing of investment projects in the road sector that are currently being implemented in Ukraine at the expense of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank. The bill aims to increase the granting of loans from the state budget to the State Agency for Road Traffic by 1 billion 100 million dollars. Such costs are proposed by additional external borrowings. So the bill's position is balanced by the revenue and expenditure of the state budget. In the light of the above, the Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 11397 to accept as a basis and generally as a law to take account of such changes. The title of the bill is supplemented by the words "in the road sector." To clarify the funding of the State budget and the amount of government debt in the text and the corresponding additions to the bill, as a result of the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of bills amending the State Budget Act 2012 for the current plenary week, pending consideration of the bill. Accordingly, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of the Bill on Registration No. 11397 in case of its adoption, should provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to the text and Appendices to the bill relating to the decision adopted by the Committee to the bill. Please support the committee's decision, please take it as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u98	Thank you, too. Have a seat. Valerius Baranov. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u99	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Vladislav Lukyanov, as the author of the bill, has also reported the position of our budget committee. So please support his report and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u100	Sign up for the performance, your honors. Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u101	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, look what we're doing, we're actually increasing the debt on account of the fact that, under the special fund, the road manager is taking on additional borrowing. I mean, it's a normal scheme, if this project is self-sustaining. I mean, if money's coming back on some investment activity, I'd understand that. But I want to see this business plan, which is, at the same time, we need to see additional documents that give us credit. Where will self - sufficiency be? In this case, I see that this is a government budget when money doesn't go from a special fund to a general fund. I mean, this is once again an increase in our total debt. We need to tell people the truth that we are increasing the debt gap again. First of all, what should we do? We have to accept the change in the overall conceptual plan that we can only take debt into the development budget, as it is in the local budgets. I have registered such a bill, and I would like to see it finally accepted. It's only in this case that we're going to have to take loans and we're going to have debt to go into specific projects, projects that give added value. Otherwise, I'm telling you again, we're going to fly into a pipe, because no businessman is going to allow himself to take on the current expenses, because it's a normal business. Why do we allow ourselves to be something that a normal person cannot do in his right mind? We, however, must be respected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u102	Vladimir Karpuk passes on the right to speak to Oleg Lášk. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u103	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. You know, I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens, today in one day's work, today's work day, the Supreme Council has stressed laws that increase the government debt of Ukraine, people that are good at $5 billion. For $5 billion, this is the efficiency of the Supreme Council. Save us God, from this Supreme Council, this bench needs to be closed immediately, it's going to be much cheaper for the Ukrainian budget and the Ukrainian citizens, it's like looting during the war. For the rest of your job, you vote every 20 minutes on billing for billions of dollars of external borrowing. Please state at least one law that will create at least a thousand new jobs in Ukraine? Tell me, please, I'm talking to the government, I'm talking to the majority, what law have you voted today that allows the social standards of millions of Ukrainian citizens to be increased? What law did you vote on, which makes it easier for people to live, or did you vote on the law to make medicine cheaper, or to make it cheaper to have bread in the store, or to make it cheaper to have residential services? No, you didn't vote on any of those laws in the Supreme Council today, but you voted on laws that raise the government debt of Ukraine by $5 billion. That's how you do your work because, I say, the honourable citizens, about the parliamentary majority, the Party of Regions, about the government, because they think only of themselves, they don't think of you, they forget about you the second day after the election. I'm talking to 6 million Ukrainian citizens who voted in favour of the Party of Regions. You chose them to hang $5 billion in debt on your neck in one day. That's why you voted for them. So I strongly demand that the activities of this anti-national Supreme Council be stopped and that we do not enter the new Supreme Council in order not to give to this majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, the floor is for Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you. You know, first of all, it was a pretty serious surprise that the bill itself wasn't foreseen for today and we didn't see it coming. Second, the committee's conclusion. Well, after that, maybe that committee's conclusion would have to be distributed among the members of the Supreme Council in the session room. Third, let's look at the point. It was offered in line with international projects, for example, the need for 2.5 billion dollars to build two Kiev-Chop roads and the Kiev Road. And in line with that today, today, with the Euro-2012 project, it seems that there has been an overexpenditure of state funds, from now on it costs not 2.5 billion dollars, but a billion more. Please tell me, where are the reasons for any of them? How can this be accepted by one line? It's a surprise, you can't treat money like that. I think this bill, if you could accept it in the first reading, but the second one needs to be worked so hard that it goes through, that I don't know how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. It's on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please! The proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2012 (for the implementation of investment projects) (registration No. 11397) is put to the vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[The voice from the hall.]] [[Unheard]] [[17:33:39]] For 211 Well, that's it! Yes! What are you worried about? Honourable National MPs, vote on Oleg Láška's request personally, put to the vote the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 11397, amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2012 (for the implementation of investment projects) (registration number 11397). [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[17:34:24]] For 207 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. Please vote. [[17:34:45.]] For 226 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is being announced for consideration. [[on the financing of the JCC Reform Program]] Housing and utility. Is that what I'm saying? The LHC should then be written. Registration number 11207. The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. I'd like to vote for it. [[17:35:33]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Valery Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u107	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues at its October 2nd meeting considered the bill I have tabled to amend the final provisions of the State Budget Act for this year. The bill proposes to supplement the final position of the State Budget Act 2012. A separate rule for halting part of Chapter VII of Part Five until 31 December 2012 "Financing the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2009-2014". What is envisaged for the suspension by the end of 2012 in particular of legislative action???the co-financing of local budgets for investment projects in the area of housing and utilities according to this programme. The position of the bill has no impact on the budget. The Ministry of Finance does not object to the adoption of this bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council generally supports the legislative proposal and makes individual remarks. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 11207 as a result of a first reading review to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please support the Committee's decision on budgetary matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u108	Please sign up, your honors, for the performance. Yes, Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u109	Ladies and gentlemen! Yuri Hanustak. Well, it's that case where, well, I'm splitting up in some way. On the one hand, as a person who would vote against the faction. And on the other hand, as a representative of local self-government, I see it's just a plus for him. Because it takes away the co-financing that in today's situation is absolutely, well, abnormal. Why? Because you look at what's going on. In view of what is actually happening in Minfin. In Kabmini, in fact, all of those people who were able to make more or less a normal budget, we have underfunding 20 billion per local budget. [[hole]] And now with these little laws about. The changes in the state budget are added to the rations, and for special regions we add. So this manual control is going to bring about a complete collapse. Well, the initiatives of local self-government authorities. At the same time, the current norm provides for the co-financing of projects from local budgets on the LHC line, which is essentially impossible because co-financing actually means that there are some luxuries of funds, that is, funds that could be taken from the social sphere by teachers and doctors. Remind me, is there a real way to block the treasury accounts of local self-government? Because the treasury account does not have any funds, it simply does not have any funds physically, and in manual mode, small crumbs are given to local self - government authorities. And so it's real if there's a possibility of funding. The work already done under this national programme must be done. And that's why I'm calling.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u110	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! This bill, like Bill 11396, I want to support my colleague Hanushtzak, is certainly useful and necessary for local self-government, especially at a time when we suddenly have some problems with heating, beginning, starting with a cease-fire in the entire number of Ukrainian cities. But this is the law. It would be nice if someone from the government reported it. Because, for example, things like this bill on financing the reform programmes of the LHC are completely linked to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And one more thing. In this law, Part 5 of this draft provides for the cessation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. I want to remind you that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has long established itself: you can't do that. The State Budget Act cannot change, and the laws of Ukraine will cease to apply. And that's why I'm talking about the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Personally, I would like to hear some information about the current state of decision-making on the allocation of budgetary resources for the implementation of the programme, in the context that this law is in force. Well, how did we use it, how? How will we continue to use it? Because it's a very painful subject, especially in the district centers, for housing tariffs. The reform of the LHC provides, first and foremost, clarity, clarity and transparency for our people, who need to be clear about what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, where is the pay for housing services. Therefore, if there is a positive response from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, this law can be adopted. If it is not available, it should be considered only as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u112	I have to say that today you and I are considering special laws that the Cabinet of Ministers insists on. We did not simply consider other laws. And that was the agreement, including at the Conciliation Council meeting, only the proposals coming from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm putting to the vote the committee's proposal, please note, the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Change to the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on the financing of the Housing and Utilities Reform Program]] [[Registration number 11207]] Please vote. [[17:42:40]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is proposed to you. [[on the redistribution between monetary development programmes]] [[Registration number 11389]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[17:43:23]] For 226 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Pavelenko Volodymyr. The correspondent is Valérie Baranov, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You're looking at a bill amending the State Budget Act. The purpose of the legislation is to redistribute the general budget allocations of the State budget for 2012 under the monetary development programmes, i.e. an increase of 7 million 526,000 dollars to increase the budget allocations for municipal services and energy services due to reduced allocations in the amount indicated. Increasing budget allocations will ensure that the authorities of state statistics are implemented for heat and electricity, natural gas. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u114	Have a seat. Valery Baranov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u115	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, deputies, our committee today has considered this bill, which provides an increase in the expenditure of 7.5 million dollars under the budget programme "Leading and Governance in Statistics" and reduces the cost of the budget programme "Statistical Observations and Censuses" and invites us to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? Please sign up. Fedun. He's refusing. Pavlovsky Andrey, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u117	Andrey Pavlovski, Julia Timoshenko faction "The Fatherland." Please pass the word to Hanustak Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u118	Yuri Hanustak. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u119	Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Ladies and gentlemen, well, of course, against the billions that have been thrown into the pipe today, 7 million, not a big amount. But it's a display amount. What does it tell us? It shows that the census plans, the census preparations for the population that were there, have not been implemented. Instead, it is suggested that the current costs be dropped, in fact, to maintain the equipment of the Minstatistics. What can I conclude? This is a confirmation of what I'm saying about the fact that the link that actually moves the country that actually does the thing in Ukraine is cut out and replaced by just looking at the region. Who can only give direction, good or bad, but who cannot do things. And it's real in all ministries. And that's what's going on in the weather, just one of the indicators of what we actually have going on is the breakdown of the apparatus. Why the Breakup? Because that principle of the selection of human resources on the ground that is now in existence is the worst. That's worse, not even. It's a clan principle. Because there would be nobles, nobles, or generations where each family has to prove that it is worthy to rule the state. In this case, we have the worst system. Because the best that's applied is the school principle. What do you mean by school? Yeah, maybe there would be a normal machine. But the principle applied by today’s authorities gives rise to the fact that we do not have a frame of reference has no one to make normal decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u120	Yes. Grivkowski, please. He's refusing. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? The proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of the Law on Amendments to Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[on the redistribution between monetary development programmes]] [[Registration number 11389]] Please vote. [[17:48:16]] For 240 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a plan for our work to review the draft Amnesty Law in 2012. We have two projects. Is that what this is about? Now. We have two projects: 11289 and an alternative 11289-1. When we consider it, we need to make a decision agreed upon in order to be able to consider the simplified procedure. But for that matter, if so. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u121	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I think we should consult. We have not decided today to extend our work. And the maximum we can extend is 15 minutes. Surely, Vladimir Mihajlovich, you have accumulated a number of appeals from deputies during this time, which need to be sounded and acted upon. We do not have the State budget, the core document on which we were going to consider it. And according to the Cabinet of Ministers, he'll probably be ready by about 20 this month. There is therefore a proposal, given that we have not extended our working day, to read out the appeals of the deputies today and to adopt changes in our order of work, to move our next meeting to 20 times the number of the current month. Further, we will be determined on the basis of the budget review as to how the work is done.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u122	Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u123	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank God we don't have the leader of the faction of the Party of Regions in Parliament. This time. It's different. Yesterday you asked all the faction leaders to come to you to discuss all the issues that the leader of the faction of the Party of Regions is now talking about, but unfortunately only you and I came to this meeting. No one came or wanted to talk. Now there are some questions in the Hall about how the Supreme Council works. Today at the morning session, we decided that this bill should be included in the agenda. So I insist that it be considered. Please, under a reduced procedure, or else I will appreciate the fact that the Party of Regions led by the leadership does not wish to accept today's act of mercy for the Ukrainians, an act of amnesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, there is more. One minute! I will. Let's vote. Is there any suggestion from the factions? From factions. Please, Arsenius Yatzenuk, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u125	The honourable members of Parliament, it is quite clear that this issue, which should now be considered, bears two elements. The first element is the adoption of this law as an expression of humanity and humanism. Because if we do not now consider this law and this law will not be passed, consider that 13, some 13,000 convicts, who are to be subject to the Amnesty Law, will not be subject to this law and will remain illegally behind bars. Thus, it is primarily about people’s lives. And the second political element. You know very well that our amnesty law deals with the release of Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka and the implementation of the decisions of the Council of Europe. That is why we demand that this law not be merely considered so that the law is passed. The adoption of this law means that Ukraine will gradually be released from isolation, and Timoshenko and Lucenka will be released from prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, no more suggestions? Just a minute. I think we should adopt this law. But in order to accept it, at least we need to invite our associates into the session room. You got it. And then let's have a discussion. Let me put it this way: I'm going to make two proposals right now: the first is about the Amnesty Act, to see if we have the readiness today, whether we're ready to consider it, one minute, for a brief vote, well, we're not going to make it, Andri Anatoliyovich, well, we agreed with you. I'll be right there. I said I'd put it to a vote. Well, yeah. So I'm going to put it to a vote, and I'm going to look at this with a reduced procedure. So the question is, what's left is, listen. We have 20 minutes left. I'm going to put a motion on the vote to consider it as a reduced procedure. Well, please. I mean again, I want to say, dear colleagues, well, I'm asking you, well, please. I'll say it again, well, can I say it? Yes, you can. Thank you. I told you again when they asked. Can we consider this Amnesty Law in 2012? I said, when we get to him, I'll put it to the vote. If you look at it, the proposal was the Supreme Council and the cut-off procedure, because we can't make it. Well, I said yes, well, you agreed. Well, what kind of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u127	I am voting on the proposal for a review by the Supreme Council, and I would like to support the consideration now of the draft Amnesty Act in 2012. (registration numbers.) [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, because the day is ending! What kind of people do you not want to understand?Oh, my God! I am voting on the proposal to review the draft Amnesty Law in 2012 now (registers 11289-1). Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[17:55:15]] For-21 Please, by the factions. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 14, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 4, communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, non-fractional – 1. So you all don't want to look at it, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u128	Well, what else do you suggest I do?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u129	Come on, please. Please. Let me put it to the vote again. I have a request: let's consider this issue now by a reduced procedure to get there by 18.15. Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, what do you want from me? To get there by 18:15! Well, hold on, please! I'm putting this motion to the vote, please vote. Why don't you vote for yourself? [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:56:23]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Dear people's deputies, please! The factions, please. The Party of the Regions is 29, "BUT - Fatherland" - 15, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 6, Communists - 0, National Party - 1, "Reforms for the Future" - 2, non-fractional - 3. Now, the second offer. Dear colleagues, make a request to the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u130	I voted for two bills, and so did the government. To make the parliamentary inquiries that have come, there are only 22 parliamentary requests at this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u131	I didn't take it, I did. Wait, I'm back, I can answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u132	Can I give you an answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u133	I was approached by national deputy Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, and I said that if a decision was to be made that the Supreme Council of Ukraine would complete the plenary meeting on Tuesday 6, then the parliamentary questions that had come would have to be considered because they would not be made. I asked, after our communication, to ask MPs, and then, if a decision is made, the Supreme Council will back up, and I will read these MPs' questions, what else is not clear?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote a motion to now make 22 parliamentary motions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, there are two points, then this proposal: the first to make parliamentary inquiries and vote for the proposal made by Alexander Sergiyovich. One minute, in accordance with article 19, paragraph 2, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, to decide to amend the calendar plan so that the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, worked on committees, factions, groups, and plenary meetings according to the current calendar plan. Please. Andrew Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u135	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we are no longer surprised by this Supreme Council, everything that is going on under the direction of the Party of Regions, the faction. You're still in charge of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you've got another month and a half to do it. That's the first one. Secondly, on the Conciliation Board, you didn't ask any questions about reducing this plenary week. So now again, there's a violation of the Rules, there's a violation of the law that has to be reduced our work, and the elections are over. Why are you shortening it? Mr. Ephraim, when stressing his offer, did not explain why he was doing so. Moreover, I have a calendar plan for the week on my desk. Why would we give it away just to spend the paper? Please explain to us, as Head of the Supreme Council, why are you doing this? Not just because you've been offered by someone who wants to be able to run the Supreme Council in the future if Tihypco makes a deal. But please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u136	I'm explaining. Dear colleagues, since you're all doing your job, I'm doing my job. I am explaining to you that if such a proposal is, in accordance with Article 19, paragraph 2 of the Rules, there may be a brief discussion of the matter and then a vote. In fact, a brief discussion of the matter is now taking place. So I'm putting to the vote my first proposal for you to let me make the parliamentary motions that came. Please vote. [[18:00:54]] For 262 Decision taken. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the issue of the 2013 State budget for the capital expenditure of the Suma National Agrarian University to prevent the destruction of the architecture monument of the 19th century of the Lysztinski Palace in the village of Kyyanic of the Suma district of the Suma region. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, as well as the non-admission of unlawful deprivation of property of residents of the village of Kamyanka of the Odessa Region. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District State Administration for the Prevention of the Death of the Kuyalna Lima. Oleg Tishchenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the failure to implement the decision of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health of 11 December 2008 concerning the referral of citizen Alexia Fomenk to treatment abroad. Grinevetsky’s Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation and preservation of cultural heritage in Odessa. Edward Prutnik and Valerija Bondik to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal made by Alexander Sinchkov to ensure his inherent natural and inviolable right to health protection and timely medical assistance from the authorized authorities of the State. Jury Karmazin to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister for Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the lack of response to the parliamentary appeal to the Central Electoral Commission, the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the verification of the falsification of the will of citizens in the constituency No.59, including in Marinka Donetsk County as a member of DVC No.140313 Eugene Zuralov, on the exaggeration of voter appearance throughout the county, on the threat of life and health to members of the Business Commission No.141152 Recun and Mainland, on the inaction of members of the electoral commissions and law enforcement bodies, which led to the distortion of the results of the elections of the Ukrainian National Deputies on 28 October 2012. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights and legitimate interests of the Society, with limited responsibility of Tetis Plus, the executive committee of the City Council of Ohtyr and the duty of Ohtyr City Head Alexander Zelujk, the failure of any action taken by the Prosecutor's Office of the Suma Region and the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Emergency Situations of Ukraine for the Emergence of the Ecological Situation in Mariupol, the violation of the environmental rights of citizens and legislation for the protection of the environment by the metal-market combine "Austal" and the combination of Ilic in Mariupol, the use of response measures from the recognition of the area of Mariupol as a zone of exceptional environmental situation, the suspension of activities of enterprises that have led to an extraordinary situation, the provision of the constitutional right of the inhabitants of the city of Mariupol of Donetsk to a safe and healthy environment. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the criminalization of the former Chief of Housing Administration of Kiev City Administration, Michael Golici, for the abuse of his office, which led to the illegal privatization of the cultural heritage of Kiev. Thus, the honourable national deputies, 22 MPs, have been asked. Now, honourable colleagues, a proposal has been made for changes to the calendar plan. Please sign up, summary procedure, two for, two against. Yes, last names, please. Fedun. None. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u137	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to do it now. Come here, Oleg Valeriovich, come here. I would like to point out that we have what, on 15 sheets, a schedule, and I want to pass on the word Lyushka. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, sadly, do not pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u139	How is it not transmitted?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u140	Then let me do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u141	Please, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, go on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u142	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich has always been passed on, well, not now, God is with him. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to tell you that language is coming too, that no law has been passed today: no government law - on amnesty, not even considered, not a law prepared by Arsenius Yatzenuk, not one or one law has been considered. Do you think the government is working on the instructions of the opposition and preparing that amnesty law? He doesn't work on the instructions of the opposition. It's about getting people out of jail who have tuberculosis, AIDS, hepatitis, cancer, they need to be released, it's God's business, we didn't do it with you. Because of this, it is very bad. We were scheduled for meetings where all the bills were written, including the bill on the release of political prisoners proposed by Oleg Lazko. This is the right bill because we still have political prisoners — both Timoshenko and Lucenko. That's why we today -- Ukraine -- have the ratings that we have, which is why we have the crisis, which is why we don't have any negotiations with our favorite international institutions that are negative. That's why we have to overcome the fear that Timoshenko has before Lucenko, but we have to understand that they're sick there and at this time, I think this law needs to be considered separately in the Amnesty Act. For the Amnesty Law is, in general, spoken of, and the political prisoners, that they should not be, is spoken of in a separate bill by Oleg Láška. It's been in our house for over six months. We've considered everything today: green light for banks – please buy. We've considered it today, we've sold it out for 7 billion. We've looked into it. Only political prisoners remain seated. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-06-m1.u143	Dear colleagues, I fully support what Yuri Anatoliovich said. And I don't think we need to vote on the commission of a committee headed by Sweden by Viktor Dmitrovich, so that this committee can finally meet and hold meetings and consider two of these bills. Because, unfortunately, it's all going into a buzz, it's all going into a conversation, the committee had to demonstrate the greatest interest in considering this issue and preparing for consideration, and it didn't do anything about it, and now they're looking for the enemy. It seems to me that there is a need for political talk and an unnecessary practical solution. So we've discussed the proposal to change the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council even today. The proposal is for the vote to be held on November 7, 8, 9, for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work on committees, factions. I'd like to ask the distinguished National Deputies to clear up all the issues there, including the setting up of order in the premises where the National Deputies are working, which should be submitted to the new Supreme Council. And on November 19th, the Conciliation Council, on November 20, the Supreme Council is operating in plenary. So I'm voting on a proposal that I just made. Please make a decision. [[18:10:07]] For 265 Decision taken. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be acquittal.
