ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:00:25]] There are 383 national deputies registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Let us consider the issues involved. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two factions ask for breaks. There's a break to 16 o'clock for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's keep working. During the break, which was announced at the request of two factions, a meeting of the Conciliation Council took place. First of all, I'm going to ask the initiators to make a statement, a statement, about what they called for a break. Who will act? Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u3	It's a statement from the "BUT" faction. On Friday, January 6, about 22.30 p.m., Yulia Timoshenko suddenly lost consciousness immediately after taking the medication she was given by the colony’s employees in connection with the disease at HWI. Julia Timoshenko’s roommate started knocking at the door, trying to call for help. Despite the constant surveillance in the cell, which according to the prison security service, only 20 minutes later, the cells opened up, and the prison doctors who started the emergency procedure arrived to bring Julia Timoshenko back to life. Finally, it was only after midnight that the leader of the Motherland Party was able to get out of critical condition of the doctors. For more than two hours, the pressure in Julius Timoshenko was catastrophically low and was 60 by 40. At two o’clock on the night of January 7, a consilium was called upon to conduct a clinical examination. That is why the next day, Julius Timoshenko was rushed to the Kharkiv hospital, where instrumental research was done — X-rays, MRIs, CTs, and blood tests were taken. The official answer about the causes of the loss of consciousness was never given by the ILO commission, concealing this fact and traditionally misinformed the public about the "satisfying" allegedly in paws, the condition of Julia Timoshenko's health. In this connection, the leader of the “Fatherland” party, Julia Timoshenko, applied for the name of the Kachanov Colony and requested that doctors sent by the Ministry of Health no longer be admitted to it. The motivation of Julia Volodymyrna is obvious: Those sent by the MOH are Gestapo doctors. They come neither to treat but to carry out another cynical order of authority and to report on the stable health of Julia Timoshenko, whom President Janukovic is trying to kill behind the barbed wire. We, the Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland", believe that the loss of consciousness after taking drugs is an attempt to physically destroy the leader of the opposition at the direct direction of President Viktor Yanukovic. Prisoners and medical personnel are used harshly and cynically instead of objectively establishing diagnosis, treatment, and honest information about what is going on outside the prison walls, telling nonsense and lies that the life of the opposition leader is in real danger. The faction calls for an immediate appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the head of the penitentiary service tomorrow to provide an explanation of the events that took place in the Kachanov colony on the night of January 6-7. In addition, we demand that Volodymyrna Timoshenko be immediately admitted by independent international medical professionals who would really assess Julia Timoshenko’s health, determine the causes of a severe deterioration in her health, establish a diagnosis, and carry out adequate treatment. "BUT – Fatherland" requires the immediate release of Yulia Timoshenko and the cessation of political repression in Ukraine. Ukraine's will! Juli will!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, during the Conciliation Council meeting, we discussed the proposals that Sergio Sobolev had just spoken about, and we made a consensus decision. With regard to the health issue of politics, man, women, Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, tomorrow at 9:30 p.m., the Conciliation Council will hold meetings with the leaders of the factions of the parliamentary groups and will invite the management of the penitentiary system, as well as the representative of the Ministry of Health, who will be designated by the Ministry of Health, whether the minister or the first health deputy, those who directly dealt with the health issue of Yulia Timoshenko, to inform the leaders of the MPs and groups about the subject and to provide appropriate clarity. We will continue to look into the outcome of the consideration of the matter at the Conciliation Council. So I think that's the right way to look at the problem, to put up a problem that was just talked about by the representative of the BUT faction Sergey Sobolev. Is there no objection? None. Therefore, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of activities in the stock market is now under consideration. [[Registration numbers 8120, 8297, 9125, 9169, 8120-d, 9493]] The rapporteurs are Head of the National Securities and Stock Markets Commission, Mr. Dmitry Mikhajlovich, Head of the Subcommittee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Igor Ivanovich. The procedure was from the reporter and co-reporters to look into the matter in a simplified procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:37:43]] For 232 Decision taken. Dmitry Mikhailovich, I'd like to have a brief draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u5	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering draft laws of Ukraine amending Ukraine's legislation on the issue and circulation of securities; amending Ukraine's laws on the definition of qualified investors; amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of stock market activities and amending certain Ukrainian laws on advertising in the securities market. The draft legislation was developed by the State Commission on Securities to implement the 2011 National Action Plan on the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme. In addition, the need for the drafting of these bills is due to Ukraine’s obligations to implement national legislation in accordance with European Union legislation. The following bills propose amendments to a whole range of Ukrainian laws: securities laws and the stock market in Ukraine, government regulation of securities markets, advertising and so on. It should be noted that the provisions of these bills and the standards of these bills have been reflected in the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the legislation on securities that have been processed by the Supreme Council Committee for Registration No. 8120, and have been brought to the attention of the Supreme Council by Ukraine's national deputies Homutinik, Prasolov, Polonyev, Arzvitin, Sicily, Geller and Pinchuk. The Securities Commission does not both agree with the bill and suggests that it be considered in the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u6	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Igor Mikolaiovich Prassolov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u7	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax, Customs Policy at several of its meetings considered the bills introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers and suggested that the issue of securities and the stock market be settled. In particular: 8120, 8297, 9125, 9169. As a result of the Committee's consideration, the Committee decided to merge the four bills into one, preliminaryly finalizing them, taking into account the comments of the scientific and expert management and a number of members of the Committee. The need to merge draft laws into one comprehensive law was due primarily to the recent adoption by the Supreme Council of a number of laws that substantially changed the legislative framework of the entire financial system of Ukraine, including the stock market. On this basis, some bills have become obsolete in some of their provisions and some require adjustments. In addition, separate provisions overlap each other. Thus, the Committee has done a considerable amount of work to finalize the provisions of the four bills and has put all proposals into one system bill. People's deputies and representatives of the National Securities and Stock Market Commission, which the Commission, as regulator, supports, participated in our work. The positive outcome of our committee's work is also that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in its analysis of the consolidated bill, has made fewer comments than the four previously tabled. The Office recommends that the amended draft law be adopted as a basis for first reading. Thus, on the basis that the joint bill drafted by the Committee proposes to substantially and systematically improve the specific legislation governing the securities market.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u8	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u9	The Committee proposes approval of the bill on first reading. [[2120]] Please support the position of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u10	Thank you. Stanislaw Arzwethyn, please, as well as the reporter and co-reporter of Bill 9493. Yeah? You only have four minutes. So four minutes and take advantage.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u11	Dear national MPs, the right decision that we have united four bills of one subject of regulation into one, and not just one, we have perfected it by the commission, and of course we have succeeded in removing a qualified strategic investor who is incomprehensible in the market what it is. We have improved the conditions of issuance and circulation of securities, commercials in the market for securities, the activities of stock market participants, electronic circulation of securities, and much more. Although there are many shortcomings left, but I will not stop at them as the author of the bill, it will be unfair to my colleagues. I'll make suggestions for the second reading. I just want to remind you that the problem of the stock market today is the national problem of the capital market. The very quality of this fund does not allow for the transfer of capital from one sector to another. The very quality of the stock market, if we take the volume, if we take the infrastructure and compare it to European standards, we have today created the economy of our banking country, which should be the other way around -- the stock market should be much larger than the market of capital in the banking sector. But I think that these bills, unfortunately, we don't solve the main problem in the stock market, is the legalization and legalization of true owners, real owners of very valuable papers. So far, we don't solve the problem with these bills, and who owns and controls the non-bank financial institutions, who are responsible for those problems, if the stock marketer has a problem. I think that the lack of a transparent market for securities, a market for securities and, in fact, the fact that participants, professional participants in the stock market, are usually the fixators of those contracts of sale or civil law contracts that are made on foreign exchange, stock exchange or commodity markets that are not normal. A small attempt, which is to identify real owners and who are responsible in credit institutions, non-bank credit institutions is an attempt in Bill 9493, which we have today included in the agenda. It's really the right position for the commission to know that the state and society should know who is the controller, who is the participant of that professional stock marketer who has the right license to manage the capital. This is the right position. But in my opinion, Bill 9493, which we have included in the agenda today, has a lot of flaws. And in my opinion, the flaw is that all of our legislative standards that we should have laid out were in law, we are now delegating to the Securities Commission. Let me give you some examples. Today, the Securities Commission should identify owners and customers according to its rules. Why? If there's a bill that we've determined how the identification takes place. Now the Securities Commission has to follow its rules, note that with the relevant authorities in the State, they have to carry out checks. Is it not clear what organs, what rules? I think there's a lot of tests that we're allowing today to do this commission, large-scale sanctions, get business plans from the Securities Commission entities, agree to set up documents when creating a legal person, I don't think it's a commission function, and we shouldn't leave those rules in Bill 9493 to second reading. So these two bills can only be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion in case of need. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Fedun, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Is he refusing or will he? He's refusing. Grivkowski. He's also refusing. Dear colleagues, the proposal was to vote on the adoption as the basis of draft Law 8120-d, and then separately vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the bill and recommend to the committee, if a positive decision is made in preparation for the second reading, to look at the possibility of unifying these two laws in order for us to adopt one document. [[9493]] No objections? Then I put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving securities legislation. Please vote. [[16:48:35]] For 266 Decision taken. A proposal for adoption is now being put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen state control over the activities of the stock market participants. Please vote. [[16:49:09]] For 269 Decision taken, thank you. Yes, once again, honourable colleagues, in preparing for the committee’s second reading, together with the committee, to study the possibility and purpose of combining these two bills in order to adopt one draft law as a law. A draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on familiarity with criminal cases]] [[Registration number 8377]] The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Igor Rybakov. Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee for Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Vladimir Olijnik. I would like to vote on the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:50:16]] For 228 Decision taken. Igor Rybakov, please. Who's it gonna be, Chaplain? Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. The committee's decision and we'll vote. Right now, the first deputy head of the committee is coming and he's gonna tell us what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u13	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, held on 7 September 2011, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on Access to Criminal Matters was submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies and Caplienko. As has already been pointed out, the purpose of the draft law is to bring it into line with the new edition of article 218 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code as drafted by the Ukrainian Law of 08.04. In 2011, other rules of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on terms of knowledge of the victim, his representative of the civil prosecutor, the civil defendant or his representatives with the materials of the case, the right of the accused to receive copies of the files certified by the investigator's signature and to conduct the video or photographing of the case, to participate in a judicial hearing of the appellate body's case, to order the judge to determine the time limit, to inform the accused and his defence counsel about the material of the case, which extends the defendant's procedural rights. The principal scientific authority has made some observations and believes that the draft law makes it advisable to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. At the same time, the committee supports the legislative initiative of the National Deputies, notes the need to improve the procedure for the knowledge of the accused, his guardian, and the victim, his representative, the civil prosecutor, the civil defendant, or their representatives with the materials of the criminal case. Given that the proposed changes are appropriate and well-founded, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, no objection? Can we lay the groundwork for adoption? Is there no objection? That's what the committee's proposing. So I'm going to put a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. [[on familiarity with criminal cases]] [[Registration number 8377]] Please vote. [[16:53:36]] For-24 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration. [[on the removal of the legal rule on responsibility for self-refoulement]] [[Registration number 9034]] In summary, the author proposes that this law be considered. Please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[16:54:30]] For 228 Decision taken. Oleg Nadosha, please report. Yuri Prokopchuk will speak from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u15	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! My law proposes to repeal article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. What kind of article is this? The article has been in codes in different forms since 1933, changing everything, but not changing the substance, is a ban on self-creating. In our country, it exists. It's like a phenomenon. And today, all attempts to combat this have not ended with anything but greater self - ingenuity. Oftentimes it's said that by accepting this standard, by cancelling 176 articles, we'll develop in our country. Let's actually bring the whole nation together. But it's not like that. Because poisoning, because fatalities occur only when a person uses just the surrogates that are being sold in stores today. I propose to abolish 176 articles of the Criminal Code. But since we have considered this bill, we have received very good efforts to undo this article and to pay attention to increasing the fight against those who produce Samn, not for their own purposes, but for their own sale. So I would like to ask the Council to vote in favour of passing this law on for further work in order to make these amendments to this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u16	Thank you, too. George Prokopchuk of the committee. Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u17	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! At a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences was submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy. [[on the removal of a legal norm that provides for responsibility for self-refoulement]] The bill proposes to delete article 176 of the Code of Administrative Offences, which provides for responsibility for the production or storage without the purpose of self - or other strong alcoholic beverages of domestic production, manufacture or storage without the purpose of producing them. As a result of the discussion of the bill, two proposals were put to the vote of the committee members: recommending that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis or reject the bill. Since the votes of the members of the committee have been equally divided, the outcome of the previous review of the project has not been decided. And according to the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the first reading of the bill should be rejected. Moreover, it is considered from the comments and suggestions made that the bill requires amendments to other articles of the Code of Administrative Offences, which are not considered in the first reading. In fact, the author himself has already agreed that this bill needs to be sent for further work, but there are also various issues. Please tell the question to both the author and the hall. Today, of course, those who produce the populace, which apparently tried at least, I think everyone in this room, for themselves, as it were, is one thing, and another -- when they merge whole villages when they're in cities today, well, we know: inflation, prices are rising, now the people can't, as they say, achieve what they call a normal, protected vodka, and now more than 10,000 per year is being poisoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u18	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u19	More than 10,000 -- it's statistics -- people in Ukraine are poisoned with inadequacy alone every year. So, of course, no one wants to swing at national and national, and I want to, including, but allow and open this Pandora box, when in the form of manufacturing for themselves there's no telling of what: with the rubber, with the carbide, you know, the tricksters can do anything, this samo who's going to poison the Ukrainian nation, I think it's unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. We would have to adopt one legislative act: the introduction of a state monopoly on alcohol. And I think the budget would be implemented, everything would be fine in the country. Please sign up for the performance. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Nadisha, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u21	You know how much you can talk about national acquisitions, about different balloons, about moustaches, but you have to understand that samin is also a national acquisition. And today 10,000 is a figure that's said to be poisoned by solitude -- it's actually taken from the ceiling. I understand that we should adopt this law sooner or later and not hide behind a wide range of words. Because there are not only Samin in the country, but there are other products. And this article foresees just strong alcoholic beverages. A strong beverage is all that's above 12 degrees, i.e. it's got strong wines and drinks and everything. Therefore, we need to read the law carefully and understand that we are going to cancel rather than make political statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u22	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u23	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. The author used to give all kinds of crap, the type of time change there and so on, which he then figured out was stupid and canceled. And today, by the way, there's a good law. And let's think about it: who was the Pandora's hedgehog? What have we ever had without self-inflicted? No, it's not. It's just that the police today have an article in their hands on the Criminal Code that allows them to manipulate them again by their decisions regarding citizens. One can be held responsible, the other can't, the third can be taken from self-creating products, or calculated in kind and so forth. If we take this article off, nothing will change at all. I'm sure whoever did this will continue to do this, and no one else has, as they say, put anyone in place in this respect. What are people dying of? Look at this. The surrogates that are made are not self-inflicted, the surrogates of technical alcohol and various other ingredients that are far from being consumed, including some cleaners that are used as chemical agents, which is the cause of the poisoning of the vast majority of those who today make up that terrible statistics. In Russia, where self - cooking is not developed, where it is not matured, because it is drunk at the fertilization stage, there die whole, indeed, villages, because technical alcohols, methyl alcohols are used as counterfeits and people die. Therefore, I believe that such a bill will take away from the police the scourge that it was used exclusively for its own benefit, and that Ukrainian citizens simply, having ancient folk drinking practices, will never go to poison themselves, family members, or close friends, with whom they sometimes have to sit after self - cooking products. That's why I would support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u24	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u25	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. The key problem with this bill is profit. And whatever we're talking about and what we're not talking about, it's profit that's at the centre of attention. Let's see, we can't all be concerned about the problem of alcoholism in Ukraine, its growth, its spread across all ages. Today, women’s alcoholism, child alcoholism, cannot help but be disturbed. And this is extremely dangerous for our Ukrainian state and for the future nation. Let us now look at the problem of the quality of alcoholic beverages wherever they are produced. Today, we can present a tremendous number of problems to the quality of alcoholic beverages produced in the private sector, called self - innovation, because you realize that it is not just for yourself but primarily for the purpose of making money. And let's see what is the same problem as y. when we go to a cooperative to buy, because the absolute majority of alcoholic beverages are faked. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I absolutely support, and this is a proposal made by the Company for many and many years that we should introduce a state monopoly on the production and circulation of alcoholic beverages, that will primarily ensure that people are not able to produce this product in any way, because the state will be responsible and the state will be responsible for the implementation, which means that everything that will be produced, implemented, will be filled with the budget, not the pockets of individual parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u26	Thank you, too. Yuri Carmazin, please. Oh, from the faction he's entitled to one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u27	Yuri Carmazin. Respectable national MPs, unemployment, hopelessness for young people in the first place of employment, market allocations, businesses, increase in crime, and catastrophic increase in crime have already led to a moral crisis. You've already been brought in. If you eliminate, now cancel administrative responsibility, I emphasize, because the criminal system has not been established, then you can also allow the production of drugs under domestic conditions. Where are we going? We go to the point where the constitutional function of public health care and the fact that human life is the highest value can be lost. As a result, the bill must be rejected as ill - thought - out, and the number of people who have been drawn to this article is more than 30,000 each year.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u28	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, because of this, I believe that the bill should be rejected and asked that the government systematically take steps to eliminate alcoholism, drug abuse and all. But to do that, you have to do the occupation, the fight against crime again, and what I said at the outset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The proposal is based on the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. Please vote. [[17:07:20]] For-35 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Region Party 4, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 9, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 0, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 20, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 2. Among them was I, one, also voted in favour. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, it is proposed that you take note of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the population from infectious diseases]] [[Registration number 8583]] The committee proposes to consider the issue of a reduced voting position. [[17:08:21]] For 235 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachteyev Health Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u31	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Infectious diseases remain among the most dangerous among all diseases of mankind, especially children. Every year in my country, about 300 to 350 children die from infectious diseases, including 200 children under one year of age. Immunoprophylaxis is the most effective measure in the fight against infectious diseases. And unfortunately, the confidence in vaccine prevention has dropped markedly in recent years in our country. There are certain and serious problems in the field of vaccination and events that have unfortunately had tragic consequences. A lot of the claims, we talked about the quality of vaccines, and the lack of an epidemiological environment, and the fact that the vaccination calendar has not been considered for five to eight years. To that end, I have drafted a bill that amends and supplements the laws of Ukraine. This is about the health and epidemic well-being of the population, which was adopted back in 1994. The second is the protection of the population against infectious diseases, which was adopted in 2000. This bill proposes a clear definition of the criteria for immunization, must be age-bound, professional and epidemiological. To delegate the authority to approve the list of mandatory vaccines and to conduct them only to the central authority of the Executive in the field of health, the Ministry of Health. The vaccination must be based on the principles of epidemiological necessity, the analysis of the actual epidemiological situation in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u32	Yes, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u33	An important innovation of the bill is the requirement for an annual revision of the vaccination calendar in the light of the epidemic. It is also proposed that a certificate of preventive vaccination be introduced. It is also very important to abolish the requirement to prohibit children from visiting institutions who have not received preventive vaccinations, because we now have about 50 false reports. It is very important, dear colleagues, that this bill was publicly discussed at the Committee hearings on 16 March 2011 and very supported by all both infectious and paediatric people and the medical community. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the bill without making substantive comments. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Health and the National Academy of Medical Sciences. I am deeply convinced that this bill is very necessary, and we have spoken about it many times. Our committee has dealt with the issue of vaccine prevention and the mass of complaints endlessly over the past four years. And I am deeply confident that we will be working with you on a work that is very important for the prevention and prevention of infectious diseases and, of course, a sharp reduction in the deaths of Ukrainian children from infectious diseases. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u34	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry, sit down, please. Sign up, your honors, for the show. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Alexander Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u35	Sergey Volodymyrovich Shevchuk, please give me the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u36	Please, Sergio Shevchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are witnessing the example of a profile committee doing a very good and necessary job instead of a profile ministry. The question of vaccination, the question of outbreaks of epidemics is now particularly acute the day before, as we know, Euro-12. Ukraine is the only country in the European continent that has had a cholera outbreak since the war, and now other epidemics are spreading. And unfortunately, the Department of Profiles didn't do the right thing, one thing, the other, and the last thing they needed. This bill, worked by experts and discussed, is a sufficiently balanced document. At any rate now no one can abandon the Supreme Council, as is often done, from the executive structures that we would say we would do quality work, but there is no proper legislation. There is good legislation, there is adequate budget for the prevention of epidemiological diseases, there is only a need for quality work. Unfortunately, we are witnessing a strange sense of headlessness when it comes to purely professional health-care interventions and special ingenuity when it comes to various kinds of manipulations related to the purchase of non-quality vaccines and then experimenting on Ukrainian children in the number of millions of cases of vaccination. So the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, after discussing the bill, decided to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u38	National Deputy Corge, faction of the Party of the Regions. Karmazin will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u39	Victor Petrovich, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, we are now looking at a very important document. I don't think it's a matter of public importance and underestimation. On the one hand, the State is giving tremendous attention to this issue of immunoprophylactics, vaccinations, and very large public funds are being invested, which are increasing dramatically. And today we have a state of affairs with it that's at the lowest level. So, of course, we realize that further increases in funding do not lead to a qualitative shift in this issue. On the other hand, there are so many shameful deaths of children who are clearly considered in society. The problem that has already been discussed, the quality, the price policy, and so forth. I would like to point out that the committee takes a fundamental position on these issues. Today, I think that together we have achieved that quality vaccines are supplied in Ukraine, and at a lower cost, without intermediaries. And today we have to solve the issue of improving the organizational and legal base. Indeed, in this way it is possible to organize immunoprotection in order to make it clear, to guarantee the health of the people and to make it clear who falls under these legislative acts and which guarantees the State. So I think this bill needs to be supported. It has a number of positions that already correspond to the European level of the organization in these matters. And I think all of this will allow us to regain the trust of our population and really ensure today's current level of immunoprophylactics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u40	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u41	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank Aunt Dmitry for giving attention to such a serious bill. I've told you many times that we don't do the National TB Program. What's more, do you know what year it is? From 2002 to 2005. And then there isn't. 1.4 percent of the population is affected by tuberculosis. That's what's installed. What about the places where you're going to be deprived of your will? You know, I'm impressed, there's a 14th colony in Odessa. And before that, there, the only one, was gathering people with AIDS. And then we stopped checking because of the lack of funds, Auntie Dmitry. We've stopped checking. And today, people in the colonies are holding on, using the same razor, walking in the same shower, and getting out of there sick, both for AIDS, and for tuberculosis. [[Mr. Michael, it's not funny, it's tragic, it's tragic for the state of Ukraine.]] And that's why we have to adopt this law as soon as possible -- this is the first time. And secondly, we need to demand this government, from a loving government, first, to return to producing our own vaccines. Well, remember, they were made in Odessa. I wrote a letter to one government, another government, showing that all of this is broken down, and we're saying that we're buying the right vaccines. It's not appropriate, because every gene has to have its own vaccine. Ukrainians cannot use the same vaccine as Africans, we have different genetics. As a result, I propose to adopt this bill and to ask the government to report on the implementation of national programs. And I think then we'll have something to increase the cost, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u42	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski, please. The next one is Sergey Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u43	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to join the doctor's opinion in the profession of Sergey Shevchuk, who positively appreciated both the system and the relevance of this bill. Why? So I'm looking at the Explanatory Note, and, you know, we've adopted a lot of bills today, but very few bills that aren't subject to the legislative initiative, including, by the way, the government, and not just the national MPs, are actually not implementing the norm that should be when the draft changes to the law are being made. For when changes are made, there must be an analysis of what is no longer in force in the current legislation. This is where Tetjana Dmitrovna just in the Explanatory Note took a tour and a chronology of the solution to the issue of immunoprophylactics. And indeed, a person who is not a doctor understands the importance and relevance of this bill. Two moments, Aunt Dmitry who couldn't tell. You started talking about a novelty like the introduction of a preventive vaccination certificate, but you still didn't say enough time. And I'll tell you what's predicted. It is foretold that every mother, every parent, should be heard without fear of having a child vaccinated. And this certificate provides: information about the conduct of preventive vaccinations or their refusal, once, of medical contraindications, which will always be seen with regard to a specific identified person or child, and post-vaccinal reactions or complications, which is also very important, in order to be able to say, if there is a complication, whether this is the cause of these complications, or whether these are other problems. And second, I think it's right that there should be a delegated right and a duty to formulate a list of vaccinations and the whole procedure of vaccinations to the central executive body, which is responsible for it, where, where.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u44	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u45	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I want to say first that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill in the first reading, given the importance of this issue. But I would like to ask you a few questions. Who has undermined the trust of people in vaccination? The very power and medicine in Ukraine is all that's connected, and my colleague said the previous. I'd like to say that we still need to put order into this. I ask the government on more than one occasion that there is no vaccine. The answer is that they added several doses of vaccines to one or the other, to the Poltavsk region. But it's a unique fact. The director of the district health department is called, and they say: Choose one of these vaccines from the range because we can no longer give. Therefore, proper funding, quality, and a return of confidence in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the bill. Both the committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are proposing to accept it as a basis. All I'm asking is that you pay attention to your medical records, your honors and your committee. In order for us not to have a new epidemic — an epidemic of medical advice that will have to be given to all institutions that visit our children and grandchildren. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the population from infectious diseases]] Please vote. [[17:23:39]] For 326 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions? Please. Region Party - 187, "BUT – Fatherland" – 47, "Our Ukraine" and "National Self-Defense" – 12, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 21, "The People's Party – 20, non-factional – 14. A draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the registration of the place of residence and the whereabouts of natural persons in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9289]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. While you're voting, I'm announcing a reporter -- the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, and a co-rapporteur -- Paveler Eduardo Ivanovich, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, International Relations. [[17:24:30.]] For the 220. Decision taken. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Ukraine's draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the registration of residence and residence of natural persons in Ukraine has been developed to implement paragraph 38 of the National Plan of Action for Liberalisation by the European Union of Visa Procedures for Ukraine, approved by the Presidential Decree of 22 April 2011. The draft law provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Residence in Ukraine and to the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Persons and Homeless Children. The proposed changes relate to the definition of the term “registration”. A new edition of this term takes into account the possibility of registering a place of residence, of staying a person at a specific facility or institution. In connection with this provision, which applies to the registration of homeless persons, excluded from the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Persons and Homeless Children. In order to protect the rights of children, it is proposed that they be required to register their place of residence after their birth. For the protection of the housing rights of natural persons, the list of documents submitted for registration should be supplemented by documents confirming the right to reside in a residence or a specialised establishment. It is specified that persons whose whereabouts are to be registered must be registered. The registration and authorization authorities are more fully defined, and registration arrangements are introduced. Today, the registration of the place of residence, the presence of natural persons in Ukraine is regulated by the laws of Ukraine on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine, and on the basis of social protection for homeless and homeless children. The procedure for registration, the model documents required to carry out the procedure, is also provided in this bill. Please accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u48	Thank you. Please provide information to the Supreme Council about the decision of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u49	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! A bill amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the registration of the month of residence and residence of natural persons in Ukraine, submitted by Ukrainian national deputy Olijnik Volodymyr Mikolajovic, reviewed by the Committee on 16 November this year. [[Registration number 9289]] [[of 13.10.2011]] The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine, which has been in force in Ukraine since 2003. First of all, I would like to point out that the proposed changes are aimed at improving the registration procedure for the residence and residence of natural persons in Ukraine. The bill provides for the possibility of registering the residence or residence of homeless persons and homeless children at the appropriate institution or institution. In order to protect the housing rights of natural persons, it is proposed that the list of documents submitted by natural persons be completed for the registration of the place of residence. In addition, it is suggested that the registration authorities be designated and that databases be established for the registration of the residence and residence of individuals in Ukraine with the use of state information systems. In discussing the bill, Ukrainian national deputies noted the relevance of the proposed changes and the need for them to be finalized in preparation for the second reading. As a result of the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the registration of persons living in Ukraine and on the whereabouts of persons living in Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy. [[Registration number 9289]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u50	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u51	Based on the base. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on the adoption as the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the registration of the place of residence and residence of natural persons in Ukraine. Please vote. So I asked, no one objected. [[17:29:56]] For 267 Decision taken. I am. I'll fix it, Yuri Anatolyovich. The draft Law of the Law on Self-Regulation Organizations is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9015]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[17:30:29]] For 227 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian National Deputy Logwinenko Alexei, co-rapporteur with the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Valérie Kraney. Is there a reporter? I won't. Please, the committee will report to us now, and we will vote then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 7 September 2011 considered the Ukrainian Bill on Self-Regulation Organizations, No. 9015, submitted by the National Deputy of the Kingdom of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to promote the implementation and development of economic activities, to improve the quality of goods, jobs, services, and to ensure effective interaction between entities engaged in economic activity and public authorities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion from 21.09.2011 to the bill, determined that the first reading of the bill could be adopted on the basis of the comments made. After discussing the bill, members of the committee noted that the adoption of the draft Law on Self-regulation Organizations had been called upon to create a single institutional basis for the activities of self-regulation organisations in Ukraine, to create preconditions for further development and to establish a self-regulation institution as an effective alternative to government regulation of economic activity. In view of the above, members of the committee made a decision: The draft Ukrainian Law on Self - Regulation of Organizations should be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and proposed that it be adopted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Grivkovsky insists or shoots? He's taking it off. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u55	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, drafts of this kind, self-governing, self-governing organizations, are not the first to be introduced into the Supreme Council Hall, and they refuse to do so, that is to say, we stop there. At the same time, there are dozens of such organizations in the countries of the European Union, such as the Notariat Act, the Bar Associations, other public organizations that have their own legislation. What we are talking about is that we have legislation on social cohesion and we stop at it. I think that despite the observations that are science and expertise, maybe there's really too much detail about principles, the creation of self-regulatory organizations, the principles of their activities, membership and so on. But these bills are needed, and they will help create and develop civil society in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u56	Thank you, too. Fedun, please. He's refusing. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also considers it appropriate to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law on Self-regulation Organizations. [[Registration number 9015]] [[17:34:39]] For-21 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. I am announcing a draft Act on the use of electronic social cards in the provision and receipt of benefits, services, payments and other social guarantees. [[Registration numbers 8178]] At the same time, my honourable colleagues, I inform you that the drafter of the bill is addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a letter on the transposition of the bill into the next plenary week. I'll put you to the vote, and I'll ask you to back me up, because we'll have the following bills and the differences when there's a call. I'm voting on a motion to postpone consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 8178]] Please vote. [[17:35:46.]] For 223 The decision was not made. So what are we going to do? Let's take a look. Let's do it then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we're looking at a reduced procedure, a request. Well, who's in charge of going back to the draft law? [[17:36:30.]] For 241 We're back. I am voting on the motion to postpone consideration of the draft law for the author's motion to the bill. [[Registration number 8178]] Please vote. [[17:36:57]] For 222 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[17:37:19]] For 226 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine’s national deputy, Valérie Konovaluk. Communicator Alexander Stoyan is the head of the Subcommittee on Social Policy and Work, please. We continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u57	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, regrettably, has come to the conclusion that the intergovernmental commission to deal with this issue, the inter-ministerial commission of the government will deal with this issue at the end of January in order to find out all possibilities for us to come out on this harmonized document, a bill to create an effective social protection system in the country. Why is this being done? Imagine that in 20 years we don't know today, we don't count how many pills we have, 13-15 million. There's no register of pills, there's no demographics, there's nothing to create a single accounting system, there's nothing to control. Imagine that the nation loses 42 and a half billion dollars just this year to provide benefits and subsidies, that the fifth part of the money does not go to the taxpayers, that we cannot figure out how much to fund to be really effective social protection and effective assistance. So I'm convinced that this is purely political. At the committee meeting, the bill was supported by opposition representatives, representatives of my own faction, the Party of the Regions, who did not vote in favour of the bill. It's purely mercantile. And they're now proposing, we've been proposing to move this issue forward so that, in fact, we can finalize the bill and approve it that's been waiting for many years. And they didn't. Well, that's understandable. So I think, unfortunately, that this issue will not be resolved definitively today, the Supreme Council will not support this bill and we will remain with the old system of social protection that the country no longer gives. It does not provide any accounting or control over the use of budget funds, it does not provide anything, because the system, the social policy in the country declared by the President of Ukraine, by the way, he proposed to carry out his own decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u58	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u59	By his own decree, he offered to conduct an experiment in four areas last year and in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And this experiment was actually blocked, blocked by those who want to continue working with social protection funds in case of unemployment there and so forth. Because we understand what is going on there. That's it. I want to say one thing, you know, we need to look at how the Committee on Social Policy and Work works today, because it can't work like this anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u60	Thank you. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that really part of our faction, including the representatives of the Social Committee, would like to hear this law in order to remove it and not return to it in a week or two or more. I explain everything. The introduction of e-cards: financially – 4.5 billion money, the price of this issue, to be developed. Secondly, we now have 8 laws that regulate these social cards. For example, Ukraine’s Personal Data Protection Act regulates personal data protection relations during their processing and provides for legal safeguards for violations of citizens’ personal rights, that is, protecting citizens’ rights. The second moment is very important. You cannot legally oblige a person to receive an electronic card. Either I do it voluntarily, or they make me do it. That's the second reason. The third reason for this is that it is true. When these cards are put in place, it's practically impossible for people to take the money in cash, it's not possible, it's not foreseen. It's the fourth time. Dear colleagues, we have a single social contribution today, and perhaps colleague Konovaluk doesn't know about it. And that's where it's all settled. I mean, I take the courage, it's my personal opinion, but it's a lobbyist law that wanted to let someone develop cards and make a lot of money. We cannot afford such luxury today. One more moment. No ministry, no department, no committee supported the bill. And that's why we asked not to delay, not to involve the government, to ask questions. On our committee, our thoughts are divided, so we reason with you. I'm once again expressing my opinion, and my colleagues, Drought, Harry, and others, who are dealing with social issues, this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign in. Yes, Roman Zabzaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u63	Soroczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u64	Please, Soroczynska, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, the MP for the Future Reform Group supports the initiative to introduce a transparent and effective mechanism for the targeted implementation of social benefits and State guarantees. It should be noted that today in Ukraine, social support is very low. In a year, 17 billion dollars are allocated. And that's every year! That is, 6 percent of the budget's income is given to the poor population of the country. The bill provides that those entitled to benefits will have only one electronic social card, which will provide information on all benefits, services, and payments. However, the MP's "For the Future Reforms" group believes that for electronic social cards to be introduced, coercion must be excluded, and it must be based only on voluntary principles. I want to inform you that there are already legal instruments on payment systems, remittances in Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, and I want to tell you that this bill needs substantial work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u66	Pacheuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, the bill needs to be supported, at least since today in Ukraine more than 19 million people who use transport. We transporters are now being reprimanded that they receive unearned funds. If we don't have a tax return, we're never going to get 6 billion dollars in cash in the budget. So I insist and ask my fellow MPs to support this bill. And you have to account for what you've actually done, you have to get those who give you these benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u68	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u69	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I'm going to start by saying that the faction of the Ukrainian Company is not going to support this bill. And what I'm saying is, really, we need to improve the system of granting benefits and preferences to senior citizens or to the citizens who need it. But there is a suspicion that this document is going in a completely different direction. Just as was the case with the last decision of the Constitutional Court, which, contrary to its previous rulings, has taken a completely opposite decision, particularly on the grounds that it is now permitted by the State Budget Act to limit the operation of direct laws in part of the social benefits. What's more, I want to remind some of my colleagues that when the Cabinet of Ministers decreed for the first time 253 "To replace the social benefits system with an address-aid system" -- and this was in the distant year 2003, it began to be developed in the tops of the Ministry of Social Policy and the work of such a list of databases and data on platinum workers. So it's been going on for 10 years. Moreover, some of the State Budget Act have invested some money in solving the problem, and so far the problem has not been solved. This bill does not bring us any closer to solving this problem, it makes us even more distant from solving this problem, because once again the issue will be solved by the most disadvantaged citizens of Ukraine, at the expense of pensioners, veterans and disabled people. So once again, the faction of the UK Company will not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u70	Yuri Hanustzak, Yulia Timoshenko Faction, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u71	Ladies and gentlemen! Well, it's very interesting to watch the fight for money flows in the upper hand of the party of power. It’s a pleasure to see them start biting each other. Now essentially. Obviously it's a lobbyist law. Obviously, 4.5 billion people have already accounted for their assets. But that's not all. Now, every carrier is forced to install special machines for the calculation of the people who enter -- and that's the extra cost. Who are they going to lie on? Well, they're going to lie down on us with you and the main thing is that they're going to be on the payroll of taxpayers, because that's not how it works. What should we do? Obviously, some of these should be ordered to inventory the benefits, order these benefits, and eventually some of them should be transferred to the payment of the money. This is primarily the case with passing aids in transport, because there is no secret that only individual carriers receive compensation – those that are closer to power. And the fixation of how many they carried is a purely conditional question. But in order to do this inventory, it has to be in power: first, desire, second, mind, third, skill. And if it's free, this power, and it can't do it, it doesn't do it. And so there's this kind of bill, this kind of thing that you don't even want to look at and want to laugh about. So one thing I can say is that if you vote for this bill -- well, it's possible -- well, then it's one of the manifestations that the obvious lobbyists of one part of the party won over the other lobbyists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Vyziewsky, please, "Our Ukraine." You have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u73	Thank you. Vladimir Viezowski. Dear Ukrainians, once again we see how they want to dump citizens of Ukraine by 4 and a half billion. And I have one fear: in addition to what was said earlier, I have to say who is voting today, and tomorrow, if, God forbid, some lobbyists will win in the majority to record, as in whose account these 4 billion and a half dollars will go. Because it's not really a situation to account for all the people who get the benefits. The desire of the authorities is to reduce the benefits as much as possible, and the main thing is that they reduce the benefits, not to those who need them most, but to the poor Ukrainians, who already have more than half of the population of Ukraine. And it starts with the maximum. And in those Ukrainians, the poorest, make the next money. And so the faction "Our Ukraine" will unanimously not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I would like to remind you that the Committee is proposing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide how to vote on this issue. The main scientific and expert office made a number of remarks to the bill. The proposal for adoption is therefore based on the draft Law on the Use of Electronic Social Cards in the Provide and Receive of Benefits, Services, Payments and Other Social Guarantees. [[17:51:32]] For-9 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the harmonization of existing legislation and the establishment of additional social guarantees for workers of culture, education and health care. [[Registration number 8651]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. While the vote is under way, my fellow colleagues, I inform you that the rapporteur will be the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dmitri Vetwicki, co-rapporteur - Vladimir Maruschenko, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. [[17:52:10]] For 225 The decision to consider the issue was taken on the basis of a vote of 225 deputies. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On the basis of the bill. The adoption of the bill is based on the need to increase social security for workers in the fields of culture, pedagogical, scientific and pedagogical, medical and pharmaceutical workers, as well as the need to bring these social guarantees to a single standard. The decline of cultural, educational, and health care facilities in rural areas and urban villages deserves special attention. The low level of social protection of workers in the institutions and institutions, as well as their weak material and technical base in rural infrastructure, has led to the reluctance of young professionals to work in the village. The trend in the lack of personnel has reached alarming proportions, especially with regard to rural schools and health facilities. In this regard, there is a need for additional social guarantees for cultural, educational, scientific, medical, and pharmaceutical workers working in rural and urban areas. In particular, it is proposed to establish that the State provides employees with a monthly allowance of 25 percent of the salary, a salary rate for work in public and municipal cultural institutions, educational institutions, educational institutions, and health care facilities located in rural areas and urban villages. To provide for health - care workers and pharmacists with an annual leave. For cultural, pedagogical and academic workers, the payment of this aid is already provided for by law. Next, for the pedagogicals.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u76	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u77	pharmaceutical workers pay off annual material aid to solve socio-economic issues on the size of their official salary. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u78	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Stanislavovich Maruschenko has a word from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On September 21, 2011, the committee at its meeting reviewed the bill and made the following decisions. The bill is proposed by amending the Ukrainian laws on education, on culture, on the basics of Ukrainian legislation, on health protection, and establishing social security standards for workers in the fields of pedagogical, scientific and educational, medical and pharmaceutical workers. In the Committee’s view, the implementation of the project’s standards will increase the level of material security for public and municipal education, culture, health care, promote the prestige of their work, and create prerequisites for the provision of high-quality personnel to the listed areas of the budget area located in rural areas and urban areas. Taking into account the negative practice of establishing regulations for the government to determine the conditions of payment of work in a given sector on a much smaller scale than those laid down in valid laws, and in order to avoid a different definition of the size of allowances in the legislative acts, the legislative initiative to enforce the laws of the specified payments on a consistent scale is appropriate, social and just and worthy of support. [[for example, whether the establishment in public institutions of education, culture and health of medium-sized bets and office salaries is at a level not lower than the average wage of industrial workers]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the results of the first reading can be taken as a basis. The Ministry of Education, Science, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Central Committee of the Education and Science Professionals Support the project. The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality, Health, Science and Education, recommend that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. In view of the above, the Committee on Social Policy and Work proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who insists on discussing this bill? Nobody insists? Oh, no? Are you insisting? Please sign up. Yes, the Final, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u81	Vladimir Karpuk. Please hand over Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u82	Yuri Prokopchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u83	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Of course, this bill needs to be supported. But it is probably not in that context that we need to ask those questions. This is no longer the question of establishing additional social guarantees. At least those set up by the government of Yulia Timoshenko must be reimbursed, for education, for culture, for medicine. Instead of returning those payments that are not paid today, the Yanukovich government is destroying the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, and is destroying those doctors who are now on unpaid vacations for the month but who are going to work. Which exists all over Ukraine, including in Equinox. So, of course, when you look directly, you have to admit that today's government, the government of Azarov, the government of Yanukovich, because it controls it, essentially destroys both the educational and the cultural and the medical sphere. Here's the situation. I urge you to vote in favour of this bill, but first of all to return all the social guarantees that have been set up by the government of Yulia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u84	Yes, no one insists anymore. Dear colleagues, before the vote, I would ask that you pay attention to the date of the introduction of this law. It is suggested that it will be introduced on January 1, 2012. Moreover, the Explanatory Note states that this bill does not require additional expenses in the current year. Well, it's understandable why it was proposed to be introduced on January 1, 2012. Since January 1, 2012, a budget has been adopted, so if it is adopted as a basis for preparing for the second reading, 11 billion funds should be sought for the implementation of this law. These are the accounts of the Ministry of Finance. So emotion is very good, but at the same time we need a sober approach here, because we've already passed laws that have no economic basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u85	So I say, if it's accepted, then when the committee prepares for the second reading, they'll watch when they propose to put it into effect. And the fact that wages have to be raised for workers of culture, education, and health care is much smaller than, say, on the average, economics and especially industry, is obvious. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the harmonization of existing ones and the establishment of additional social guarantees for workers of culture, education and health care. Please vote. [[18:01:00]] For-83 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. The factions? Please. The Party of Regions – 1, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 38, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 12, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 3, "The People's Party – 0, non-fractional – 4. Yes, Your Honor, we need to consider a few drafts in the re-reading regime, four bills. We've got 15 minutes, we'll work. I would like to announce for consideration the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Social Development of the Village and the Agribusiness Complex in the People's Farms (as regards the granting to individual farmers of state aid loans (Registration No. 7209). Request to consider it as a reduced procedure. The rapporteur is Paul Sulkowski. Please vote. [[18:02:11]] For 216 Decision taken. Peter Melnik will report as one of the coauthors of this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u86	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Peter Melnik, Party of Regions, Kiev Dear colleagues, today the only way to improve living conditions in peasants is through regional support programmes for individual housing in the village of Own House, developed by Presidential Decree of 27 March 1998 on measures to support individual housing in rural areas. Over the years, regional housing funds have provided rural housing support to the country with an additional 3 percent annual credit cost of nearly 800,000 rural families. However, it's only 18 percent of the total number of rural families that need improvement in housing conditions. The total cost amounted to 822 million dollars, of which 463 million were paid at the expense of the State Budget and 359 million dollars, from the local budgets of all levels. An estimated 1.3 million square feet [1.3 million sq m] of the cheapest dwelling has been introduced and 62,000 previously built gardens have been gassed. [[just 1 thousand 500 bucks per square meter]] The credit of rural builders is carried out according to the rules governing the granting of long-term loans to individual residents in the village, approved by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on October 5, 1998. In 2009, changes were made to article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Development of the Village and the Agricultural Complex in the National Economy, which provides for the granting of loans to rural families who live in rural areas. So this law narrowed down the lending of loans under the "own house" program, which they had been given since 2000 according to the rules and lived in villages, villages and towns of the city type. As a result, many citizens have turned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and local authorities, so c.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u87	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u88	We legitimize the granting of credit to rural families living within villages, villages, and villages, thereby increasing the number of loan lenders. In addition, in all years, the rules governing the granting of credits have been implemented in accordance with the capacity of borrowers who, when entering into credit agreements, agree on the type of credit: construction, construction, housing and construction of engineering networks, and the term of return for young families from 20 years and 30 years. The arrangement, coupled with the approval of the repayment deadlines, contributed to a return of 97 percent of the government's budget to the planned loan agreements, which were then directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u89	Thank you. Thank you, thank you again. Dear colleagues, who insists on discussing the matter? Well, write it down then, 'cause there's a lot. Sign up. Bully, the reform group for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! Excuse me, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it just happened. The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill. I'll save our time so we can get there in 15 minutes. We are ready to support this law in the first reading and consider it to be right, human, aimed at our rural producers, but only three questions. The first question is that the terms and rates of the debt lending are not understood. The second question is just a list of tax conditions, these are building materials, equipment and so on. And the third question is the difference between the displaced and the local population. In our view, it would be worth a second reading of the date of clarification in article 12 of these rights. Thank you. We will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u91	Sergei Gordienko's right to speak is passed on to Vladimir Matthew. Is that what I'm saying? The Communist Party faction. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u92	Dear presiding fellows! The only way to lend loans to rural builders and to build or improve their housing is by supporting individual construction funds in the village of Own House. I would like to say that thanks to this fund, many rural builders have purchased, built up their homes, made gasifications, and water supply. But every year, the government’s share of lending to individual rural builders is shrinking, and it has to be noted that the state is getting rid of this problem. Today, Polish rural builders are actually lending this fund only within the limits of the return of the loan: what's coming back is being credited to that amount. I'd like to ask you all today to support this bill, to turn to the local budgets: if there's any money, to predict at least a fraction of it, and also to those mecenati who want to support the country's population. And the last. I refer to the sanity of the prosecutor’s office, particularly the procurator’s office in Poltava. We need to think about this know-how. If an individual housing support fund in the village gave a copy to the person who lives in the village but who works in the district administration or in the district council, in the center, the authorities in the district prosecutor’s office have committed a criminal offence against the fund. In fact, persecution follows a professional sign today. It's a disgraceful phenomenon. It discredits the fund. This corrupts people’s faith in power. I think the authorities in the Poltav district will hear about this. Please, on behalf of the villagers, support this bill, and you will help the peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u93	Katerina Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, we have a unique opportunity today to actually help people who live and work in rural areas to stay there. This is especially true of young families, young professionals. They would live in a village, and where would they live? On behalf of whom and where do we get the money to build our own home, start a farm, and work for Ukraine’s food security in the future? It's a very important law. We have to vote for it, as well as for the substantial increase of the Own House fund in the well-established budget, and it is imperative in this law that we support the idea of involving as many banks as possible, banking structures. The faction will therefore vote in favour of the bill; it works for the agricultural sector of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u95	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u96	Dear National Deputies, well, read carefully what this is about. You're talking about a peasant, well, there's no word in the law about peasants. As a banker with a 30-year-old experience, I can't figure out where the peasants are? We read that if in today’s current edition it really was for peasants living in rural areas, they could now receive extended loans that live outside villages and villages. I ask you a question: if a young family of a national MP or another official wants to build individual houses on Dniper under three percent for 30 years, it's possible now, because it's not for peasants. Then, if it was written in an active norm that, in fact, the loans were given to a young family living in a village, a young family that was financially poorly provided, and for that was the norm written down, the criteria were, then now read that we allow: anyone who lives not in the village and behind the village, and still, if he comes and proves that he is viable. Please tell me. Well, then let's explain what "platforming" is, what "lewridge" is in the country to make it clear. So I guess where's the peasant we're all looking out for right now? So this is for the "rollers" who will live behind the village in good territory. Well, Your Honor, read the text! Next, if they care so much about increasing the rural lending system. There are classic standards. Create credit-guarantee institutions that involve you. Income tax on those credit institutions, banks, or credit companies that invest in agriculture. In the end, interest rates are compensated for by those who finance the village. There are classic shapes. Let's not invent "outside the village," "outside the village," it's not about the peasant. So, Your Honor, I think we've all talked about it beautifully, but unfortunately, it's not about the peasant. Please read again in the text of this law. So I normally vote that we keep him on the first reading, but read carefully, there are no peasants here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m1.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of the bill. From the presentation by Sergey Gordienka. I ask there for the part about the prosecution's appeal, about the actions in the Poltava region, to consider it a parliamentary request and to form it accordingly. The other one. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to Stanislav Arzevetin's speech. He's right. So, if we accept it and really care about the villagers, we will now provide clarification for those who live or move to rural areas. And a dot. Or not on the outskirts of the village, where they will actually build orphanages. And here's what's outside the village. So let us set out for those who live in rural areas or who move to the countryside for permanent residence and a dot. In addition to this clarification, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Social Development of the Village and the Agricultural Complex in the People's Farms. [[on the granting to individual rural developers of state-owned credits]] Please vote. [[6:13:53]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we cannot continue our work because of our great desire to continue. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will continue the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 10 a.m. schedule for Wednesday 11th.
