ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear colleagues, in the opening ceremony of the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, participate: Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Head and Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Special Court for Civil and Criminal Affairs, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the diplomatic representation of foreign states, other official persons. Honourable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine announced in public. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I invite you to welcome Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov of Ukraine. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-04-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, representatives of the media, are invited! Thank you very much for the opportunity to contact Ukrainian citizens and national deputies from the high parliamentary rostrum. In order of the eleventh day final in the cadence of the session, there are many questions that will determine the development of Ukraine for the near and far future. Therefore, regardless of the height of the electoral campaign, regardless of the political differences, there is a great responsibility on the Supreme Council and on the government. The economic situation in Ukraine is now stable because we have made timely and concerted decisions needed to minimize risks and stimulate economic growth. At the same time, we are all witnesses to how the world economy is developing unfavorably. In financial markets there is uncertainty and cautious anticipation. The economies of the leader countries are demonstrating slowdown and recession. In Eurosona, there are unresolved problems that are erupting once and for all by social protests and conflicts between government and society. In fact, the recession covers the main markets for the sale of Ukrainian products. In this situation, we owe a very responsible and balanced, and above all, timely, decision - making that will ensure the steady development of our economy. What kind of decision is this? The government concentrates on deepening the investment climate, releasing business from regulatory pressure and reducing fiscal burden on domestic demand, implementing a substitution import program, energy independence and energy efficiency. Equally important is the raising of the standard of living of people, and therefore their capacity to pay, which is directly dependent on the continuous continuation of the President's Social Initiative Programme. They include solutions that really bother people. Increases in pensions, improved targetedness and social protection, compensation for lost savings from the former USSR Savings, assistance in solving the housing problem, ensuring a fair price for medicines, and much more. Much has been done in these directions, but more needs to be done. It is here that efforts from all branches of government need to be maximized; first, we need to adopt a balanced, completely realistic budget for 2013. The relevant bill, which has been designated by the President of Ukraine as a development budget, will focus primarily on ensuring the implementation of the President's social initiatives. The government will introduce the draft budget to the Supreme Council in full compliance with existing legislation, and we are counting on Parliament to adopt this defining document as yet an active ingredient. The Supreme Council also has 151 government bills awaiting your decision, 46 of which are on the ground. The government has identified a list of draft legislation aimed at implementing the 2012 National Action Plan for the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme, which requires urgent consideration for 11 sessions. Among them are bills aimed at promoting investment in the priority sectors of the economy to preserve existing ones and create new jobs. Further improvements in business conditions are primarily about reducing State intervention in business. Simplifying and improving existing permit procedures and licensing, improving legislation on the safety and quality of food, increasing the energy independence of the State, introducing taxation of wealth and luxury items, encouraging the development of an agricultural complex, including through tax simplification mechanisms, and improving procedures for the conduct of the economic activity of State registration of property rights in the land area of new objects of valuation of property of notarial operations, etc. An integral part of the government’s legislative initiatives is certainly a number of laws aimed at raising the standard of living of people by increasing the income of citizens and putting order in the market for medical supplies. We expect that, during this responsible period, the deputy corps will demonstrate to Ukrainian citizens that it is not in words, but in fact that it wants to improve the quality of life of people, to increase the competitiveness of Ukraine in the world. In turn, I want to assure you that the government is set up for fruitful, coherent and constructive cooperation with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to wish everyone in our joint work wisdom and responsibility toward the Ukrainian people, who will appreciate all of us, not by political slogans, but by our specific work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-04-m0.u3	Thank you, Milo Janovich. Dear National Deputies! Dear guests! So it turns out, and obviously it's only natural that we don't have a session -- it's an important event. This session begins in a period that will in many ways determine the future of the country, at least until 2020 in the political, economic spheres. And it will identify Ukraine’s obvious place in this changing world. The task of the Supreme Council, honourable colleagues, is to keep Parliament in a working state. Thus to provide dialogue in society and to make the necessary decisions, which the Prime Minister of Ukraine spoke about in particular. It is vital for us not to allow the conflicts that you and I are dealing with, nor to resort to naked populism, which will have a negative impact on the country. It is very important for us to make serious decisions, and most importantly to work with the Government, the relevant committee, all the committees preparing the draft budget together with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. To your well-known, distinguished colleagues, this is the information: a thousand 369 laws have been passed during our work by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We also considered and adopted three thousand 751 decrees. There would seem to be a great deal in the legislative plan, the problem is how these laws work. At this session, after cleaning up our legislative portfolio, there are now 752 questions left, of which 151 are prepared for consideration in the first and second readings, 581 issues need to be dealt with on the committees and brought up for consideration in the session hall, the workload on the committee is far different. I'll give you this statistic: five committees have to consider up to ten questions, if you're right, up to six questions, nine committees -- 20 questions, six committees -- up to 30 questions each, five committees -- 40 and more questions each. In the first place, the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs — 172 issues. In second place, the Committee on Legislative Security is 83 issues. And finally, the Economic Policy Committee is 68 questions. This shows what are the priorities in Ukrainian society today, and we need to take this seriously. And to conclude, dear colleagues, before we begin our work, let me wish all of you and every honest victory for as much as possible under Ukrainian conditions, but such an honest victory as would turn out to be a victory for Ukraine, the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-04-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, all those present who participated in the opening of our session. Now, your honors, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[10:15:10]] They registered in the 370 National Deputies Sessional Hall. Dear colleagues! One announcement. According to the application and in accordance with article 60, part 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Shiyanov Boris Anatoliyovich, from the membership of the deputy faction “BUT – Fatherhood”. Dear National Deputies! We'd need to establish the order of the day session right now. At the same time, in the process of dealing with this issue, we have found many difficult points. In particular, we already have an actual agenda project out of four chapters. The first chapter is questions that are prepared for consideration; questions that should be prepared for consideration by committees; questions that are not. they suggest that they should not be included in the agenda, given that they are already largely included in earlier legislation or have lost their relevance. At the same time, the factions, apparently primarily for political reasons, for reasons of the state of the country's economy and the real possibilities of the state, have proposed not to include in the order of the day a series of bills that are either confrontational or purely populist. And I have to say, although I personally understand the position of law enforcement agents, bills have already been put in place to solve problems in a separate area, such as water treatment or garbage disposal. For the election campaign, it obviously makes sense, but not for the general use of the state. So we still have a need, honourable national deputies, first: to hold an urgent committee meeting. It is clear how relevant, vicious, and promising the laws needed for the country are. That's the first one. The other one. I would ask the committees and factions to take a very responsible approach to their proposals for the formation of the agenda, because according to the Rules this prerogative belongs to the committees and factions themselves, and to look at the proposed project accordingly. In view of this, my dear colleagues, and at the suggestion of the four factions, I am putting to the vote a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call with this content. First. Amendments to the calendar plan for the 11th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 5 July 2012 on Parliament's work in September 2012, providing for work on committees, commissions and factions on September 4-5. Please vote in favour of this order. [[10:18:35]] For 256 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. On Thursday, September 6, plenary meetings will be held.
