ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u1	Dear national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the glade system, let's register. [[16:05:14]] There are 301 national deputies registered in the session hall. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of three MP factions: The Party of the Regions, the Communist Party of Ukraine, the People's Party and the MP's Group of Reforms for the Future, decided to hold an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Friday, April 27, this year. The questions that are discussed in the proposals for convening such a meeting are yours. So let's move on to the order of the day of our meeting. In doing so, I note that honourable fellow Members that the order of the non-commissioned sitting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act is established by the Conciliation Council. The first question is what happened in the city of Dnipropetrovsk and the first steps in strengthening security measures in the country. At the offer of the Conciliation Council, we have invited representatives of the law enforcement agencies and will listen to the information of the first deputy head of the Security Service, the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, the Deputy Attorney General and the Minister for Emergency Situations. I explain that the leaders of this veneration are already in Dnipropetrovsk. And that's why we have the opportunity to listen to information only from those I've announced. Let's make sure, dear fellows, that's what we're gonna do. Let's give everyone who has information within five minutes. In five minutes it won't work, there'll be more, let's move on. In five minutes, questions. Then we'll make a decision. Therefore, I would like to ask you to speak to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Mr. Rokitski Vladimir Georgievic. Please, you have a microphone, please, there's a microphone. If there's a rostrum, please come. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Arsenius Petrovich, when you were running the Supreme Council, you were running out of time. So far, there are others, so far. You've already directed your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! You know, today there's been an extraordinary event in Dnipropetrovsk. There were four explosions. The Ukrainian Security Service is using a search-and-research package to solve the crime. A group of experienced colleagues led by the First Deputy Head of the Security Service, the head of the Anti-Terrorism Centre, Lieutenant General Shatkovski, were sent to Dnipropetrovska and half an hour ago the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Igor Aleksandrovich Kalinin, took off. It is now discovered that for an hour and a half in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, there were four explosions in the Karl Marx district. The type and capacity of the explosive devices are set. At 15 hours, 25 people were contacted for medical treatment. At the time I was on my way here, no demands and threats from established persons or unattended persons to the law enforcement agencies came. In turn there were, as I said, four explosions, all of which took place along the route of Carl Marx's first tram. Explosion devices were placed in urns. That's why people are being given first aid, and the task force is working. I said there were 25 people: one person has severe bodily damage, five middle and last. Now, in all the places where self-propelled explosive devices have exploded, there are joint task forces working together. All efforts by the Security Service, the Ministry and the Public Prosecutor's Office have been brought together and the prosecution has been prosecuted under article 258 of the "Terrorist Act". All right, that's my information. I don't think anyone's considering introducing an emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much beg of you, I would not like to sound the version right now and sound what is at the disposal of the task force. Give us a minute. Of course! Give us time to do everything, we'll work as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Please listen to the information. They came because they were invited. And I think it's interesting for those who are interested in the acuteness of the situation to look at the meetings of the Supreme Council right now. If you are not interested, do not hesitate to listen to others. Please, five minutes of Bobil's. Behind him is Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u5	No, it's not. Volodymyr Georgiyovich, Volodymyr Georgievich, stay on the rostrum, you will have questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u6	National Deputy Bobylev, Reforms for the Future, Dnepropetrovsk. I was born and raised in the city of Dnepropetrovsk. For a very long time, I worked there in the police force, and in the people's deputies, I resigned from the post of Head of U.S.A. in the area. What is happening today in the city of Dnepropetrovsk is, of course, an emergency, an emergency. And I would like to address our colleagues who today will be teaching this as a political organization. Excuse me, go to the right doctors. My family called, my friends called. Today, there is a serious problem in the city. I have one question, and not even a question, but a wish to solve this crime as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u7	Thank you. Yes, please, Smith George, next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Georgiyovich, tell me, please, considering that this is, indeed, a terrorist act, it is not some kind of hooligan act or some kind of insubordination of those or other citizens. Do you not consider or have the Ukrainian Security Service taken some steps to strengthen the protection of appropriate objects that are relevant and may be more vulnerable to such terrorist acts in our country? These include nuclear stations, chemical hazards, and so forth. What is done by the Security Service in this regard, and will security measures be strengthened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u9	To date, those objects that you have named are still under enhanced protection by internal troops, and on the side of the Security Service, the units are carrying out a search-and-rescue effort to detect any attempts at terrorist threats on particularly important sites. We did not receive any information about any threat to the State or people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u10	Please, Alla Alexandrovska. Next one is Blackmore.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u11	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Thank you for the information, but I would like you to assure everyone, not only who is present, but also those who are watching our broadcast and listening to the report that the little information available to the public will indeed be provided by your service. Because people care about what happens in Ukraine. And that's the question. Please tell me, were there any similar cases, including in Kharkiv when the urns exploded? Are these things under investigation so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. Of course, it is an extraordinary event for the Ukrainian Security Service, so the whole structure is designed to expose this crime. Everything we can do, and I have just come here to prove the truth to you because the Internet is writing, and today there are nine explosions and casualties. In fact, there are four explosions. So I'm willing to promise that we're interacting with all the law enforcement agencies. I said we'd work without rest to expose these crimes. We had four terrorist incidents during 2011. Including, as you've noticed, in Kharkiv on October 13, 2011, on the Constitution Square, where a self-made explosive device exploded.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u14	And the business kiosk of Kisset is damaged. The same two explosions were in Zaporozhye. And on November 16, 2011, there was an explosion in Dnipropetrovsk when a Ukrainian citizen, Gibrichenko, was killed. So all these events are being investigated today. I would like to explain that investigating such explosions is very difficult, very difficult. Because at the time of the explosion, we're looking for evidence or the ability to somehow identify the person who committed the crime. Therefore, terrorist acts that have been committed by means of an explosion are being investigated for a long time in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u15	Please, Blackmoor, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u16	Blackmoorov, Party of Regions, Crimea. I have two questions. First question. Information has been received on the Internet, which has already been detained, and the first detainees are available in this case. Are you confirming it or not? And the second question. What do you think? From the time of the ancient Romans, there is a question: Who benefits? Is it beneficial for those who want stability and tranquillity in the country? Or is it beneficial for those who want to destabilize, those who want blood, clashes, and who want to turn the country upside down and throw it into the abyss of all kinds of trouble?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u17	I'm not ready for you to confirm information about detained persons today. I drove here, and I had no information about the detainees. When it comes to questions that, to whom it is convenient, to whom it is not convenient. You know, I think that loving crime against humanity or people is a crime not only in the face of crime but also before the people of Ukraine and before God. We're going to investigate and we're going to call the people who are involved in this crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u18	Thank you, Volodymyr Georgiyovich. Have a seat, please. I invite you to the information of Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Viktor Ivanovich. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u19	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I'd like to stop a little bit in chronology, because, in fact, there are a lot of insinuations on the Internet right now about these crimes. And because this is exactly what these crimes were reported in the district office, I'm going to inform you right now how this happened. So from 11.57 to 13.05, four explosions occurred in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. At 11:59 a.m., a telephone call from citizens to the next section of the Kirov River of the Dnipropetrov City’s Dnipropetrovska City Police Department reported that at 11:57 a.m., an explosion occurred on the route number 1 in the garbage bin at the intersection of Karl Marx and Syrov Street in the Kyrov district of Dnipropetrovska, near the stop of public transportation. At 12: 24 a.m. to the next section of the Dnipropetrov City Railway, the telephone, again, from the citizens, is a message that at 12: 20 a.m. in a square across the street. There was an explosion in a garbage churn in the town of Dnipropetrovska, near the Family cinema. At 12: 53 p.m., a telephone call from the citizens was received at 12:50 p.m. in a rest park. Stabbing down the street. The town of Dnipropetrovska near the monument of Tskalov, in the Kirov district, saw an explosion in a garbage bin. At 1:05 p.m. a.m. a.m., the city’s Dnipropetrovsky City Hall of Internal Affairs received a report from citizens that at 1:09 p.m. a.m. at the intersection of Karl Marx and Serov, in the Kirov district of Dnipropetrovska, near the stop of public transportation, a roadway number one at 50 meters away from the first explosion exploded in a garbage pit. I would like to confirm the previous information from the site that resulted from the explosions that were reported to have affected 25 of these citizens, nine of whom were between 15 and 17 years of age. This information is now being clarified. During a check-up with medical facilities in Dnipropetrovska, 12 citizens received information about medical assistance: 9 to the Mečnikov district hospital, 2 to the second hospital of labor, located on Kalin Avenue and one to the city hospital of rapid medical care. Virtually all of them were injured with cuts in their lower extremities, except for five, which are moderately severe. There are now reinforced investigation teams headed by the Dnipropetrov district prosecutor and Chief of Staff, Major General Babenko. In the city of Dnipropetrovsk, the Siren operational plan has been put into effect. Additional forces of internal forces are being dispatched to the city of Dnipropetrovsk, and measures are being taken to determine the situation. To personally monitor the conduct of the investigation of the crimes committed to the city of Dnipropetrovska, the Minister of Internal Affairs, General of the Internal Service, Zaharchenko, flew personally. The Ministry has expanded the operation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs operational headquarters, which was led by the Minister of Internal Affairs himself, and is headed by the First Deputy Minister for his absence. The personal composition of the branches of Ukraine has been translated into a strengthened service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u20	Thank you. If you have any questions, please sign in. Five minutes. Evening, prepare for Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u21	Please tell me, from what I've heard, these are not emergency measures. Is this provided for in the internal service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u22	Turn off the microphone, you can't answer because it wasn't Dinner. Please, Be quiet. Get ready, Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u23	Dear reporter! Paul Mokchan, "Reforms for the Future" faction. Ukraine was known for its stability as the new state that became, and 22 years of political existence were marked by peace, stability and the avoidance of any sharp confrontational beginnings, even though the political struggle never ceased. Please tell me your personal versions and the Ukrainian Security Service, and your intelligence, because there are several of them being developed right now, are there terrorist groups, is this another state involved, or is this the payment for the murder that took place recently in the city of Dnipropetrovsk? Which version of you is at least being processed so that we can look for answers to these questions in the same way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u24	Dear National Deputy, we're taking action to strengthen public order right now, I mean the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. And with regard to motives, I would like to say, more faithfully, the direction in which the case will be investigated must first be to know the motives of the crimes committed, and then to talk about the version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u25	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. Puppets to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u26	First of all, I would like to express my gratitude for the comprehensive and accurate information. I don't want to politicize the process, I don't want to politicize today's meeting, and I'm joining the common opinion, and I'm sitting here in the hall, and all the healthy people, so that all the power structures can group together, coordinate and find these podunks and bastards who want to destabilize the situation in the country as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u27	Please. Well, here's a wish. Please, Kulikov. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u28	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said in your statement that an explosion broke out, you were informed by the citizens, you heard another explosion, you were informed by the citizens. I worked and colleagues worked all in the police, there's an operational service that works in the police that should have reported really what was being prepared. Whether or not there was information in the previous order that prepared these explosions. If there was no such information, it's already a question of the professionality of the police today. And this is the procurator general's deputy. And once again, I want, with respect for the position of the deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to expect that this is not the reason for the introduction of a state of emergency in Ukraine. In your opinion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u29	I'd like to give you an answer. After all, from the scene, obviously it's a peaceful day, that it's people, either coming back from work or going to work or resting. And it's a good thing that in two minutes, the citizens took the Ryviddell and reported on an extraordinary event, a crime committed. In this case, I would just like to say, thank you to these people, because they have confidence that the police will still respond to their messages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u30	Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I want to join General Bobilov. You know, there's been a lot of trouble in Ukraine. Once upon a time, some isolated acts of malicious bullying are with you and me, while we're stuck here, figuring out, who's smart, who's beautiful. We have with us in front of you, in Ukraine, terrorism has come and peaceful people are killed, and little children are killed. And I think, and I think you'll agree with me, everyone in the shower, the politics here is just unacceptable. To whom it's not convenient to be stupid is all, terrorism has no party color, no nationality. I want to ask the deputy minister. Please tell me, do you need any help from us from the Supreme Council of Ukraine? to you and other law enforcement authorities in order to increase the material components of your search? Because we understand well, perhaps some of the legislative provisions you will be taking. I think we're all going to stand by your questions as one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u32	Thank you for your attention. I would like to say that we are now taking all appropriate measures to solve this crime as soon as possible. That's the first one. We are seriously now taking steps to strengthen public order. That's what I'm talking about. And in terms of security, I'd like to say that before the Euro-2012 preparations, the Cabinet of Ministers has now allocated the funds. Now we're going to buy the right equipment and we're going to use it in our work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u33	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Please inform Deputy Attorney General Eugene Mikolaiovich Blazhowski. Please, Eugene Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u34	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to inform you that as soon as it became known that the first explosion had taken place, the prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov region had been charged with a criminal offence under the article "Terrorism." The investigation of Ukrainian Security Service personnel has been commissioned, as in accordance with article 212 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, this is the subjectiveness of the Ukrainian Security Service. Officials of the district, the district, and internal affairs officials of the Ministry of Emergency Situations also went to the scene. After that. When there were other explosions. Criminal cases were also committed. They are now united in one implementation. The investigation is carried out by a joint investigation team of the Ukrainian Security Service, officials of the Office of the Prosecutor and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Because Dnipropetrovsk, along with the Attorney General of Ukraine, is the minister of internal affairs. The first deputy of the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service has left a number of experts, including investigators from the particularly important cases of the Attorney General’s Office and the Ukrainian Security Service, who will take matters into their own hands. All necessary follow-up measures are being taken to establish the circumstances of these crimes and those who have committed them. This is briefly the kind of information that is. Following the completion of the first investigation, the Attorney General of Ukraine, Viktor Pavlovich Pshonka, is scheduled to hold a joint meeting of law enforcement officials to sum up the first stage of the crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u35	Thank you, Eugene Mikolaiovich. Please sign up for the question. Yes, please, five minutes. Candlestick. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u36	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Eugene Mikolaiovich! In recent times both the Supreme Council and law enforcement agencies have been doing everything they can to humanize crimes, amnestys, or legislation, to protect criminals. As a result, the criminals spread out. Mikolayev, Novomoskowsk, now Dnipropetrovsk. What's going to happen tomorrow? Our voters demand that the death penalty be imposed in Ukraine for particularly serious crimes. Ukrainian National Deputies: Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Behviz Valeri Ananiyovich, has passed a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council several times. Do you think it's time for that or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. Well, I mean, it's Parliament's will to enact laws. The duty of law enforcement is to carry them out. According to the article "Terrorism," part three, if the consequences of the victims, human victims, are expected to be in prison for life. I believe that the sanctions of those articles and the series of articles that deal with life’s deprivation are severe. If another law is passed by Parliament, we will be obliged to do so. As for other matters, we are taking all measures to investigate matters. It's Santa Claus, Oksani Makar. Two days ago, the indictment was signed, and the case was referred to the Central District Court of Mikolayeva. Three persons accused of murder, rape, and one of them in other crimes are involved in criminal responsibility. I hope that the court, together with support for the prosecution’s accusation, will determine an objective legal verdict.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u38	Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Prepare Zabarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u39	Thank you. Please tell me, did the Attorney General's Office analyze the work, the course of the investigation, the investigation of previous cases by the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities? Because we know and understand that impunity produces new crimes. Have they analyzed how, how, at what, or at an appropriate professional level, with the involvement of technical resources, with the involvement of human resources, such an investigation and investigation? My question and your answer should give people peace of mind that the situation is under control, that they will be punished, because the Office of the Attorney-General clearly monitors and helps to investigate such terrible and resonant crimes that, as yet, the glory of God, Ukraine does not know, may not know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. I want to say that a coordination meeting was held yesterday under the chairmanship of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, in which all the State's law enforcement authorities and the judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine participated. The issue of combating organized crime, corruption, and crime was discussed. It noted that more than 97 percent of the killings in Ukraine have already been discovered today. A number of other resonant crimes have been solved. At the same time, there are some shortcomings in the work of investigation, in the search and investigation. About them, we had a very principled language, and a lot of reactions were made both by the heads of the law enforcement agencies and by the prosecutor's authorities about drawing those who cannot perform properly to responsibility. I mean. What both criminalist techniques and experts in Ukraine are doing is perhaps beyond their means. They need more funding to ensure that both laboratories and the technology needed to detect crime are modern. It is also necessary to have a more saturated State Security Service, as the finding of patrol cars in the protection zone allows for rapid response, both to street events and to residential events. And believe me, this will enable citizens to safely return to the streets, to return to their driveways, to their homes, and not to be robbed. It may be difficult to compensate for what they have done. Therefore, these directions require additional funding and perhaps a whole programme developed by the government, adopted by Parliament, to ensure the security of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u41	Vladislav Zabarski, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u42	Dear Eugene Nikolaevich, a very short question. Please tell me again, how is interaction organized, which coordinates the activities of all law enforcement agencies involved in the investigation of this crime?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u43	An operating headquarters has been established to expose this crime. At present, Dnipropetrovsk is in the city of Dnipropetrovsk, the Attorney General’s Deputy Attorney General, the heads of law enforcement, who organize the work of all the specialists involved in the detection and detection of the perpetrators of the crime. This crime will be investigated by Ukrainian security officials. As I said, investigators have taken the matter into account for their conduct. The task force will include operational officials from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as prosecutors, supervisors, who will continuously monitor the rule of law situation and carry out the necessary follow-up with a view to detecting the crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u44	Thank you, Eugene Mikolaiovich. And another piece of information. The word has been given by Victor Ivanovich Balog, Minister of Emergency Situations. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when it comes to discussing the origin of an event classified by the Attorney General’s Office as a terrorist act, the MNS directs its work according to its functions, interacts with all its entities. But in view of the fact that criminal cases have been opened, the MNP is directing the antiterrorist center of Ukraine’s SBU. And the tasks that we will be facing will be done with clarity. In fact, all of my colleagues have sounded, I have nothing to add, I have the same information, we work together, there are no misunderstandings. I want to say one thing to the MPs. Politicians have the right to sound political motivation. And I hear it in the hall, and on the Internet, I read about whether to introduce an emergency. I'm looking at a grading machine, and I want to tell you that if people are under 50, it's an extraordinary event. level. So I don't think that society needs to be destroyed. In Dnipropetrovsk and so on, people are psychologically tense and nervous. We just need to do fast and quality work and find out who did this. And today, politics needs to be translated into something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u46	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. Jaroslav Suhi, followed by Mokchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u47	Victor Ivanovich, since there is no Minister of Health here, and this is your prerogative to provide first aid, rescue, transportation, please tell me, according to your information or your information in Dnipropetrovsk, is there a proper state of health care for these people, are there adequate hospital resources? Is it not necessary for you to transport someone to Kiev, or is it supposed to be, or is it so planned? Because we need to be sure that those people, especially those little children who have suffered, that they are getting proper, qualified, high-quality medical care, including MCS specialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I want you to be able to inform us that, in fact, the MNP's coworkers are their main task of getting people out of the scene and passing it on to the disaster scene. The quickest we could do was interact with the medics. So what I'm saying is that the material and technical condition allows us to talk about what the employees of both the MOH and the MHC have done, and today those affected people in the hospital are being given the necessary medical help. I would also like to add that among the nine are 15 - year - olds, a girl, and eight adults.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u49	Paul Silent, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u50	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear Victor Ivanovich! It is I who call you to meditation. Because what happened in Dnipropetrovsk is actually an attack on the life of the state. It's not a method of political struggle or execution, it's completely exclusive, in my opinion, to the instability of the Ukrainian state. As if we were not afraid to find out about our political relationship here, yet again, in 22 years of more tense times, Ukraine avoided similar incidents. That's why I would like, Victor Ivanovich, to point out the next one, who's interested, to understand something, Europe doesn't need. We know how the leader in Russia came to power, who blew up several houses. Or not. Let's say that's a version. Here are the traces of those who did not invite to the inauguration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u51	Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u52	I actually understood Mr. Silent's question. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a question of parallels with our neighbors, I think it is necessary that, if such questions arise, a closed meeting of the Supreme Council should be held. Because we have Ukraine alone, and we need to make a coordinated decision and are consolidated so that we can take it because we are responsible for Ukraine. So there has to be one position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u53	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich, because more questions have been asked. Dear colleagues, you and I have listened to the information of people who are directly obliged to do what they have learned, and they are dealing with this extremely difficult situation. I have no doubt that each one of us, the national MPs, has a heart attack for every Ukrainian citizen who has heard this message. It shuddered at the fact that it was not, fortunately, for our nation, and, God forbid, as they say, it should have a continuation. So I hope that the law enforcement agencies, and we wish them speedily and, above all, effectively investigate the matter, will find perpetrators who will be punished accordingly. And you have already heard that this is the highest point of imprisonment for life today. So let's thank the law enforcement authorities for responding promptly to our request and giving, hopefully, comprehensive answers within what they have today and within what can be said without harming our case in this investigation. Thank you. The first question has been completed. Let us turn to the next question. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on cooperation in improving post-accident response to emergency situations at nuclear power stations. Bill No. 0254. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:45:35]] For 261 Thank you. Decision taken. Please, Minister of Emergency Situations Victor Ivanovich Baloga, you have two minutes. Get ready for Belarus. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask that this bill, which is currently being considered in Parliament, be voted so unanimously, as your colleagues in the Lower House of the Parliament of Japan have done last week, is 470 people, 470 votes. In the presence of the Prime Minister, all unanimously voted that a resolution should be adopted and the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and Japan signed. I'm asking you to support everyone, because it's a matter of security. We have Ukraine alone. Please take this decision and have 450 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u55	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Yes, please, Oleg Belarus from the committee. You don't? Then please, the first deputy is Chernobyl. Please come from the seat or from the rostrum, as you may. May I speak to him from the rostrum? Please, Taras, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u56	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues of the People's Deputies of Ukraine! I understand, of course, that in today's situation and during what happened in Dnipropetrovsk, probably all the other questions go back. But still, because this question has already been asked and it also relates to very painful things, nuclear accidents and information, and mutual information between the two countries that can be spoken now, the world's worst nuclear catastrophes: Ukraine – Chernobyl, Japan – Fukushima. The treaty that was signed in Tokyo envisions mutual information, said to be half-protected. This covenant does not have any additional special obligations. It does not provide for additional financial resources. It predicts that post-accidental is not only about future accidents, but after the accidents that we have had in Japan, post-accident information takes place on all issues. We provide relevant information to the Japanese side, tiredness and action to eliminate the consequences, and the Japanese side about those features, and there are a lot of features -- and chemically, pollution, special reactions in reactors, and so on -- that gives us information to solve these issues. It's a small deal. The larger preamble and five short articles, two of which are purely protocol. It's predicted what it's done for, I've already said -- it's actually in what form. The form of communication, exchange of experts when necessary, and meeting of an intergovernmental commission is about once a year, if necessary. Financing is not provided separately and is provided under existing budget payments on those topics. In this regard, we ask on behalf of our committee, which at a special meeting decided to support this ratification. Please support her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u57	Thank you. If there are speakers, please. Two to go, two to go. Yes, please, Katerina Samolik. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u58	I also appeal to all the Ukrainian national deputies to unanimously ratify this agreement. Moreover, the parliamentary delegation was in Japan at the Fukushima, and we know that even if the agreement was not yet in force, this agreement was not accepted -- on the one hand, on the other hand. But our specialists, who have been working for more than 20 years to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear accident, have been cooperating with science in a fruitful way, and with those who have been working on the practical elimination of the consequences of the Fukushima accident and have been working for almost a year. Of course, we need all of this to work out, the legislative momentum of mutual cooperation on such a very important, very sensitive issue. And that's why I hope that even those who stood back now and were standing back when we were listening to information about the huge tragedy in Dnipropetrovsk, because it wasn't interesting, because it wasn't politics, and it was really tragic news for the entire Ukrainian people. So I think we all have to respond. What's more yesterday, said the reporter, one of the reporters, that maybe, in a timely way or something, at the same time, because yesterday just marked such tragic, yes, tragic, tragic years of tragedy at the Chernobyl nuclear station. I urge everyone who has common sense, who has a heart and a conscience, to vote in favour of ratifying this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u60	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Japan has high technology. In Ukraine, unfortunately, there is great experience in coping with the consequences of disasters. It seems to me, too, that in our subjects, state entities that will continue to move in this direction, namely, to develop international agreements with other countries for nuclear safety, this treaty may become a beginning. Because, as we know, many countries, including Europe's major emphasis on nuclear energy. Among them are the largest countries in Europe. By the '60s, even in the '70s. Right, Victor Ivanovich? In some countries, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, energy, So they're not going to be able to do that. And atomic reactors, nuclear objects will always be objects of increased, let's say, risks of increased risk. And so I think it should be just the beginning of our negotiating efforts with those countries that could work with Ukraine not only in terms of information, but also in terms of sharing experiences in the planning and prevention and overcoming incidents in nuclear reactors. Therefore, the faction of the People’s Party sees no warnings, no obstacles to unanimity, unanimous support and ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u61	Thank you. Please give me a minute, Chaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u62	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, I wanted to say thank you very much first that we have made the decision to ratify this agreement at the end of this week. Because in the watchtowers, all the MPs were talking to each other about the fact that we had to accept this ratification by April 26th. And if not for today’s situation, perhaps it would not have happened. That would be damage to the Ukrainian state. Secondly, we are confident that this ratification is of a declarative nature, of course, from a positive point of view, which is primarily aimed at the realization of a joint implementation, let's say, overcoming the consequences beyond the accidents that have occurred in Ukraine and Japan. And, God forbid that this covenant should ever be made open, that we may not have agreement and that we may not have other accidents in which we may change our experience. The group will vote in favour of the 20th vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u63	Thank you. Question completed. I support those and ministers who have talked about the necessity and importance, regardless of the complexity, the inter-parliamentary struggle, or the internal parliamentary struggle. I would like to point out that this is certainly the only agreement that is so expeditiously being ratified, since the agreement was signed on April 18, 2012. I would ask that the Cabinet of Ministers, which is asking similar questions for ratifications, and profile committees, and you and I react so quickly. That's one thing. The other one. Viktor Ivanovich has already said and stressed why we have a similar law today or, more precisely, yesterday, because Japanese colleagues have already done so. And we're sorry, we don't want them to have any doubts that we signed, we don't want to ratify. So this is where we have to do it as quickly as possible. Well, unfortunately, 26 was the 26th anniversary of this tragedy. This also obliges us, and it is right here that Catherine Samuel spoke of what we should do. The only thing I regret is that we don't give as many votes as the Japanese do, I wish there were 450 votes. But I'm sure we're going to ratify this agreement right now. That's why I'm putting to the vote a bill on the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on cooperation in the area of improving post-accident response to emergency situations at nuclear power stations. Please vote. [[16:56:18]] For 267 Act adopted, treaty ratified. The factions, please. Region Party – 185, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 7, Communists – 25, National Party – 20, Reforms for the Future – 19, non-fractional – 11. The treaty has been ratified. Thank you, Victor Ivanovich, for being a part of the job. Here we go to the draft Distrust Order of the Attorney General of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10343]] We need to consider this question to include it in the agenda. Therefore, the procedure is terminated in accordance with the Rules. Please, for two minutes, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, if you wish. There's no wish. Yes, if you would like to comment on this question, then please write two for, two against, the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Decision on Distrust to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Yes, please, Grivkowski, Bondick is behind him. None. Please, Valery Bondick, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u64	The great predestination and those who are there are respected colleagues! You see, according to the Constitution, the chief supervisory authority is the Public Prosecutor's Office and is headed by the Attorney General's Office. In the world of all these events and all this attention, which is drawn to our state in the rightful realm, I think, well, a few are inappropriate to make and vote on this decree. If it's okay with you and you agree, let's move it. And today I ask the honourable chairman not to put, well, according to the Rules, I ask not to vote in favour of this order according to the motives I have indicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u65	You may have motives, but the Rules are the Rules. If representatives, those who put 150 signatures, say they don't want to, but they can't say anything anymore, because there's no right to withdraw these signatures. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the draft Decision on Distrust to the Attorney General of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10343]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:59:08]] For two. Against-35 Hold on to 0. We didn't vote 264. There's 301 card in the session room. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 1, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 0, the Communists did not vote, the People's Party did not vote, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, the non-fractional did not vote, 14. Thus, even the 150 signatures of the national MPs who allegedly wanted to mistrust the Attorney General were removed by means of the Supreme Council. We are considering the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Representatives of the Head, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization". [[concerning the nominations of Karakaya, Žuravski, Ramez]] Project number 10397. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:00:37]] For 261 Thank you. Report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u66	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the committee at its meeting on 25 April 2012, reviewed and supported the submission of the Party of the Regions’ parliamentary faction on the election of Ukrainian national deputy Karakay Yuri Vasilovic as the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, releasing him from the duties of a member of the committee. This position was held by the faction of the Party of the Regions, Ukrainian National Deputy Pecklusenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, whose mandate was suspended on April 13, 2012. The committee also supported statements by Ukrainian National Deputies: Ramez Valerija Vasilović, a member of the People's Party MP, on his election as a member of the Committee on Science and Education. The calculated quota for the faction of the National Party of the Committee on Science and Education has not been used. As well as Giurawi Vitali Stanislavovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ Deputies for election as a member of the Health Committee. The calculated quota for the faction of the Regional Party in the Health Committee has not been fully used. The committee is asking for support, to vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u67	Thank you, Vasil Alexiovich. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? If there is, we'll write it down. Thank you. I am voting on the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Head of the Secretariat, Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. [[Registration number 10397]] Please vote. [[17:02:57]] For 266 It's been decided. And we're considering making an oath to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with human rights. The Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, are sworn in at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Human Rights Commissioner appointed by us has complied with the requirements of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights regarding the incompatibility of the position of Commissioner with other activities. Valery Volodymyrna Lutkovska, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, is invited to make an oath. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u68	Thank you very much. I, the Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna, taking the office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, solemnly swear to defend honestly and conscientiously the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, to carry out my duties in good faith, to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, and to exercise justice and my own conscience. I pledge to act independently, impartially, in the interests of a person and a citizen. Valeria Lutkowski. Kiev, April 27, 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-27-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Valery Volodymyrna with her office of Commissioner for Human Rights. In this regard, my honourable colleagues, in accordance with the law, I propose to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Carpathian Nina Ivanovna from office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine with respect to the making of an oath to the newly elected Commissioner. In connection with the formation of an oath to the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights in accordance with article 85, paragraph 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 9 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights", the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to release Karpachov Nina Ivanovna from office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from human rights. We're voting on the verdict. Please vote. [[17:05:38]] For 264 Thank you. Decision accepted. Dear colleagues, let us thank Nina Ivanovna for the work she has been doing for a long time, 14 years, in the office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for her human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that according to the calendar plan for the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, on 3 and 4 May, the national deputies are working with the electorate; on 7, 8, 10 and 11 May, work on committees, commissions, factions and groups. The plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, May 15, at 10 a.m. The next meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Welcome to May 9th! Good luck!
