ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! Today, the festival of St. Andrew the First, which brought the idea of Orthodoxy to the Kyiv crayons. Therefore, I welcome all the Andrians, and may the wisdom of the holy be passed on to all of us. [[Applause]] Yesterday was the first meeting of the Counting Commission that we elected. The results of the first session will be reported to us by the Head of the Counting Commission, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u2	Honourable deputies, in accordance with the requirements of article 17 of the Rules of Procedure, held a meeting of the Counting Commission. Minutes of the meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 12, 2012. Commission members present: Heleway, Hinka, Gordijenko, Demidko, Zarubinsky, Zubko, Zubčevsky, Kalužny, Kanivec, Kuzel, Kupreyčik, Final, Oilynik, Pavlovsky, Pinchuk, Skubashewski, Stoyan, Dry, Chechtov, Chugunnikov, Schwaika. They heard about the election of the Head, the Deputy Head, and the Secretary of the Counting Commission. We have approved the election of the Head of the Oilynik, deputy head of the Counting Commission, Kanovets, Secretary of the Counting Commission, Gordijenko. They voted "yes" to 12. 12 signatures of members of the commission. Thank you for the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u3	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. You can sit down. With a separate mind, a member of the Counting Commission would like to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, Oleg Kanowitz, Fatherland faction, Citizens' Position, 126 constituency. Yesterday at a meeting of the Counting Commission, three opposition factions invited the Party of the Regions and representatives of the Communist Party to be the head of the Counting Commission to be elected representative of the opposition forces. This would mean that there is a compromise, there is an understanding that the head of the Counting Commission should be in the hands of the opposition. Sadly, our offer was rejected. I'm asking for your attention! When the Vote was put to the vote by Vladimir Olijnik, we, the three opposition factions, asked for a recess to consult on how we should vote. After consulting, we made a decision and suggested that if you want the head of the Counting Commission, it would be appropriate to give the opposition factions the office of deputy and secretary of the Counting Commission. For which the colleagues also took a break. When they returned, they said.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u5	Please give me more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u6	We're bringing in the third package, the one that Vladimir Oilynik just announced, where the secretary didn't want to give freedom, they left to the communists. Vladimir Olijnik said the following: “He did not vote in favour of the package when the offer was made by the deputy and the secretary to the opposition forces. And I'm afraid the secretary of Liberty won't sign the protocol later. I say, "Vlodimir Mikhailovich, how can you say that? How do you know if he'll sign or not? If everything is within the law." So, I conclude, our proposal: The Committee's protocol is not to approve, since there are no signatures of nine members of the committee, we believe that the Counting Commission should meet again and carry out the election of the heads of organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we do not approve the minutes of the Counting Commission, so work on the Counting Commission, negotiate. According to the previous agreement, I propose to take a decision on the continuation of today’s plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the matter of committees, as provided for in article 116, paragraph 9, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, would you mind if we made a deal with you yesterday? Please, one minute from each faction. Please, the left-hand faction of impact, on the right-hand side. Heroceno.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that yesterday our day began with the fact that Mr. Litwin had been instructed by the Secretary of the Supreme Council to find out how and where the oath was taken, as if by two national deputies, who we all know did not enter into their duties. And before we come to our work with you today, we have to listen to the Supreme Council Secretariat to let us know who made the forgery of the documents that we were told yesterday that as if 444 deputies had taken the oath. This happened in the presence, I say again, in the presence of the entire room, we can't go into such forgeries, in the presence of our distinguished fellow journalists, so we can't go into it. And so I propose that before we go to any vote, we have to execute the decision of the hall, and the Bureau has already sat for a while to listen to the faction secretariat, to remove these two people who are not the national deputies who have adopted the oath and then to go on to work. Next, I want to remind you that we still have a question about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u9	Thank you. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u10	We have a question about the fifth fraction created by the Supreme Council, which does not exist. If the Party of the Regions wants to help their Communist friends, let them help create a group and delegate six of its deputies so that they can create a group of 37 national deputies. We won't deny it here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Jacenyuk Arseny Petrovich, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u12	Your Honor, the presiding officer! acquired the status of the law. The Act of Ukraine on Amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We call on all factions of Parliament to comply with the Law and the Constitution. Yesterday, during the voting process, the media recorded six cases of violations of the Ukrainian Constitution, namely the principle of the personal vote of the Ukrainian people’s deputies. We're talking first to the Party of Regions that broke the Constitution yesterday. The law does not provide for the blocking of parliament, but the law does not provide for a violation of the Constitution. Do not violate the Constitution, vote in person, comply with the requirements of the law in force, and then this Parliament will be able to work. We refer separately to two deputies who, in accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, did not take an oath that is fixed by all means of video surveillance and journalists. There are no such MPs in Parliament until they are accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u14	Until they take an oath in accordance with the Constitution and the law of Ukraine. That's why we're addressing you: vote in person, once, don't break the law, two, and do the Ukrainian Constitution, three, then Parliament will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u15	Thank you. The word is given by Miroshnichenko, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u17	Please, Dragibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u18	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. A few moments. We haven't heard the main question from Mr. Oily, how does the "Council" system work? Will the sensor button work? We did give the task to the Counting Commission to determine that question at its meeting. The other one. We have not heard from the head of the Counting Commission the situation around these so-called traitors of the Tabalov deputies, whose ballots were voted yesterday, and who were reportedly present at the time of taking an oath here in this room. The calculus committee should take a video and clarify that question. And third, it's very important. Yesterday's disgraceful violation of the law. Part of the people’s deputies speak not in the national language, not in the Ukrainian language. We demand that in this room the speeches be in English only, otherwise you are in violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is given by Gordijenko, a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u20	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. In purely national language, I would like to inform my colleagues that when they went to the Ukrainian Parliament, they promised to engage in legal activities. Last night, I realized that these fellow parliamentarians had Bulgarians, chains, scraps, and other things. They didn't promise this to people, so I invite everyone to work constructively in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to form the organs of the Supreme Council and the leadership. I emphasize that the work of the Supreme Council is purely of a collegiate nature, and the issues are discussed and voted on. So without shaping us for the leadership of the Supreme Council, we cannot continue to consider any proposals that are coming. Let's go to the construct.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u21	Thank you. The word is given to Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, in fact, nothing tragic or extraordinary is going on, the normal process is going to begin with any convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I wouldn't want anyone here to be dramatic about what's going on. Unfortunately, last night was not productive, it was not effective, but it was very effective, especially for the media. That's how it used to be, so we'll probably burn to death in this room. But to colleagues, especially to young people, I want to say, you know, a demonstration of your extreme aggression, a demonstration of cynicism, when the interests of the Constitution are being advocated, and the work of the Supreme Council is immediately broken, does not add authority to the Supreme Council. You see, we are representatives of the political elite of Ukraine, people are looking at us, people have given us our hopes and expectations. And I recommend to all of you, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u24	Fellows, if you've got so much energy, if you're so eager, take a shovel in your hands, go throw away the snow, let the fool come out of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u25	Thank you, Your Honor, for the discussion. I propose a vote. Who's in charge of looking? is proposed to decide on the extension of today’s plenary work of the Supreme Council to the Committee’s consideration of the issue, according to the number. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[10:13:31]] For 240 Decision taken. 240. Please use fractions: Regional Party - 200, Parenthood - zero, Vitaly Klicka - zero, Freedom - zero, Company - 32, non-fractional - 8. Thank you. Let us turn to the question of the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From Question to Article. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we're with you, you and I agreed yesterday that we're moving on to the subject. I'm asking you to do what we have to do. In accordance with article 74 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask the MPs to apply for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please, Freedom faction, Pullside.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u26	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union is firmly refusing to present any candidates at this time in connection with the fact that a vote has just taken place, and we agreed with you yesterday that we are starting work today exclusively under the Ukrainian Rules. At least five cases were recorded on the right side of the hall when members of the Party of the Regions pressed the buttons for their neighbors. You're breaking both agreements, and you're breaking the basic principles of parliamentaryism right now. And you want Parliament to work properly for all the years when you in the first few days show contempt for Ukrainian legislation? We demand to re-vote the past issue because it was voted in violation of the law. We require the removal of all the missing MPs' cards and the continuation of the vote, exclusively by leaving the Ukrainian legislation, in person.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u27	Thank you. Colleagues, we've begun our consideration of the matter. I'm sorry, everybody. We made a deal yesterday. We have a decree: the Supreme Council of the Party of the Regions is nominated by Ribak Vladimir Vasilovich. Will there be other proposals from factions or national deputies? Please, strike faction? Carpunts, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues! You don't have to blame us for not making arrangements. We've agreed with you, and you've adopted amendments to the Rules of Procedure for Personal Voting. You don't exactly follow them. There was a record of the facts yesterday, a record of the facts today. The strike party faction yesterday registered the voting order with a sensory button. If you lack the will to control your deputies, their hands are drawn to other people's cards, let's enter the sensory button, and we'll vote in person. The strike party faction, all the deals, if they're going to happen honestly, will do. But you don't do them: you don't vote personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u29	I vote in person. Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, are there any proposals from the Freedom faction about the candidature? Please. Pull up. Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u30	Respectable Society! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I've just made a statement: we're definitely refusing to make a nomination. We protest because it is impossible to work in such a regime, which is a breach of legislation. We've all come to a new parliament. Here some colleagues told us about the MPs ’ promises, the pre-election promises. Yes, everyone before the elections must have told them that they would vote in person. I'm sure none of you would vote for it if you told me you were such a pianist here. You organize disgrace and disgrace around the world by voting with other people’s cards! We're all laughing! At meetings, meetings with the diplomatic corps, people from other countries can't even imagine that there is such a practice in the Ukrainian Parliament when they vote for neighbors. Come on, let's go! But you have the majority. What else do you need? Vote according to the law! Follow the Constitution and then there will be order, and then there will be constructive parliamentary work!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u31	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, who will act? Are they desirable? Please, Jacinjak Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u32	Dear Lord Chairman! You are personally responsible for the implementation of the Constitution and the law. You represent the Party of Regions that received 210 mandates yesterday. As a result, you are breaking the law and the Constitution again. If you don't stop voting by your deputies for the other deputies right now, we're gonna have to block Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm talking to everyone. Please comply with the Constitution and vote in person. Please. Ladies and gentlemen. Is there a proposal from the faction of the Party of Regions? From the faction. The Communist Party is an offer? None. From the people's self-inflicted MPs? Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! In fact, what's happening in this room right now is propaganda. Contrary to the will of the citizens, because most people in the elections voted in favour of the opposition parties, today the Party of Regions, along with its Communist satellites and carcasses, have not fallen from the sky, but there are specific people who are responsible for these carcasses. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today, the Party of Regions is trying, in an anti-constitutional way, to take power in Parliament, as they did in Parliament of the past. It would make sense to put someone on the head, on vice-speakers, if there was competition in Parliament. There is no contest today. And that's why I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. There's a famous Ukrainian saying, "Looking at the eyes that they were buying, eat, don't give up." I'm talking to the people of the East, the people of the East who voted for the region: you wanted these regions that will improve your lives, and that's how they improve them, they do everything they've done before three years. Therefore, good people, learn and draw conclusions, and my advice to you: Never vote for wolves in sheep’s clothing. And these wolves are regionals, they're communists and they're carcases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u35	Thank you. We need to decide whether to move to a discussion of candidates or a break for a preliminary discussion of the proposed candidates in the parliamentary factions. I'm voting on the proposal to discuss candidates in the hall. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:21:32]] For 242 I'm asking everyone to calm down. Let us move on to a discussion of candidates for the presidency of the Supreme Council. Colleagues, we need to make arrangements according to the Rules of Work. This is the order of the discussion provided for in article 75 of the Rules: for candidates to report on their activities to be given up to 20 minutes, for questions up to 20 minutes, for candidates to be discussed up to 20 minutes, all the time. Will there be a denial? Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to the candidate for the head of the Supreme Council, Rybak Volodymyr Vasilovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u36	Deputies! Let's calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u37	Please give the word to Rybaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u38	Deputies! A new session has begun. This is a new stage in the history of Ukraine, our homeland, the land where we were born and we were married. They've become politicians. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[The voices from the hall.]] Call it a break! Stop, stop. Let's call it a break! Call it a break until it's too late.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u39	A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u40	And once again, I ask everyone to comply with the Constitution and vote in person. I am. I have a great request to my fellow members of the national MPs -- when there is a vote, not to walk in the hall, but to be in my place of work and to perform my direct function. Do we have a deal? Thank you all. Colleagues, we are moving on to a discussion of candidates for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You and I have established a procedure to discuss candidates, so let's go back to him. 20 minutes according to the Rules are provided for the report. The reporter himself can use this time as he understands it. Then we give, well, maybe if we have an hour, 20 minutes to ask questions and answer questions, and 20 minutes to discuss a candidate. And at one hour, we're doing it in accordance with the Rules. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please take 1 minute from the factions. Please sign up. One minute from the factions. Yeah, I've got three national deputies. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Sergio Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u42	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u43	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to the requirements of a single law before considering the issue, which is the Prevention and Anti-Corruption Act. In accordance with article 11, a special test is envisaged for those who claim to serve in positions of public authority or local self - government. For those who claim to hold positions listed in article 4, paragraph 1, of the first section of the Law, a test is carried out, including information provided personally. These include candidates for the post of Head of the Supreme Council, Deputy and First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, and Alexander Sergiyovich, candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please obey the law. We made a deal. And about the personal vote. What you announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u44	Sergei Volodymyrovich, thank you for reminding us of the rules of law. But I'll also remind you that those people who are in the public service have been tested properly and they don't need to be tested under the law. Thank you. Please, who else signed up for the show? Mochnik, please join the Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u45	Mr. Head, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union insists that you keep stressing that there will be a personal vote. You yourself, I think, are interested in doing so. Because the Head of the Supreme Council is not to be elected in a legitimate manner. To be really a personal vote, and then you can continue in due course in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u46	Thank you, colleague. You reminded me I didn't insert the card myself, so thank you. Please, Lukyanov of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Sergeyevich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! We're a lot of you. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are very much talking to you about our obligation to comply with the requirements of the Constitution and not to interfere with each other's work. We have an obligation to vote in person. At the same time, we forget that we should not prevent each other from voting and that when we interfere with the work of other people's deputies and prevent work, we also violate the rules and obligations that we make when we vote for each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, do the Communists want to speak? Do they want to take the hit? Please, Karpunt's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u49	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, distinguished colleagues! As we have agreed that we are implementing the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure Act, we are voting in person, since the issues with the Tobals are not resolved, we have no report, a large part of Parliament believes that they are not the people's deputies. Please show me on the board where the sockets of these cards are and show that they are not voting. And also to show the nests of our colleagues who are not present at the plenary meeting today in order for everyone to be in their seats not to block, but to see clearly where there are no national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u50	Thank you, everyone's talking. I give the floor to the candidate's report to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputy, our colleague, Rybak Volodymyr Vasilovich. Please, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u51	Deputies! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u52	Dear colleagues from the secretariat, I request confirmation. Yes, I ask you to confirm the presence in the Hall of People's Deputies, the Tabalovs. Please confirm their presence in the hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u53	Thank you, colleagues, calm down. You have expressed your political position. Thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u54	We don't have that right either you or I. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u55	Deputies! I'm asking you to sit down. He's voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u56	Dear faction leaders! Dear faction leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u57	Deputies! The election to the Supreme Council is not just an event of our political biography, it is a new stage in the history of Ukraine, our Fatherland. We were born and we were married, and in this country, we became politicians. We did not go through a simple, but sometimes a very difficult road to the election process. Of course, it was a general exam for both politicians and all our citizens. For the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whom we will choose, the main is a broad understanding of the political forces in the name of the prosperity of the Ukrainian State, which is above party interests. Most of the people in this room think, do not want political warfare, opposition. My political credo, and I think it's shared by the vast majority of Ukrainian deputies -- political stability and socio-economic development. This position is supported by our people, our electorate, by the consolidation of all the political forces, the political parties in the pursuit of the programming goals and the tasks that we have taken with you -- the people's deputies -- in this I see the main task of our new Parliament. And let's be honest, despite the fact that a lot has been done in the country lately, there are still serious problems ahead of us in the social sphere and in the real economy. Many of us have experienced this well during the election campaign. The Supreme Council has every opportunity to find effective forms through the rule of law, to engage in solving the problems that exist in the socio-economic development of the country, to do everything possible to enable the country to move forward. I will always be ready to support those national MPs who defend the rights of voters who can stand up for themselves and compromise with others. We need to solve the key problems of our society in this room. The resource of populism is not the help of our people, it's the way to nowhere. Convincedly, those who bet political radicalism have no future for strife and blackmail. That's my position. Parliament’s duty is to serve the people, to keep the letter and the spirit of the law clearly. Those who know me: I am a democratic man, always in the walls of Parliament, trying to find understanding not only among my colleagues in the party, but also in the environment of opponents. So I can't promise much, but the specificity of this position requires finding understanding among colleagues, consolidating our positions, at least on key issues that are national priorities. From my experience in Parliament, I'm going to say that we've already gone to the past to discuss key national priorities, such as sovereignty, territorial integrity, the integrity of borders. There are no more questions. To be honest, it's hard for me to say in my own way to you, experienced in life and professional politics, well-known truths, realizing that everyone admires the same thing, and everyone loves it. They don't like the same thing. [[B in m in s a l in]] My principle is to stay out of the way, not to be responsible, not to be confused. Great promises diminish trust. This wisdom should not only be remembered but also be followed in our practical work. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. I will make it up to me to ensure the Parliament's spirit of sound political competition, a spirit of fighting for the laws that will be passed in this room to serve not with you, but with the people of Ukraine. Now at this moment, I swear to you that I will be consistent in these desires. I also want to tell you that I am proud that the people of Ukraine have chosen us with you on the path to the great goal that Ukraine will surely gain, to become a state where there will be no place of poverty and injustice. This is what Ukraine and the head of state Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic wants to see. Only that is the essence of the reforms that he has instituted. And may the Lord bless us in this common sacred work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u58	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Vasilovich. Please sign up from factions and national MPs for a question. Please turn on the system. Please give the floor to the national MP Pankewich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u60	Please turn on the Tegnibok microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u61	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, our faction has prepared a lot of important, interesting questions for a candidate to head the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But if you'll excuse me, Mr. Ribak, your tongue is not coming back to you right now to ask questions after this has been done in the Ukrainian Parliament. We demand that this "cart," this traitor, this bastard, this man make one commitment? The electoral process, and now he's acting hamistically, acting non-patrioticly, supporting these negative consequences of treason in the Ukrainian Parliament, whether he leaves the room voluntarily now, and then Parliament's work will go on constructively. Get the fuck out of the hall! Traitor out of the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u62	Please show me who's next to ask the question. Stoyan, please, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the political power of the Party of the Regions, our faction unanimously recommended that Vladimir Vasilovich be head of the Supreme Council. We know him as an organizer, as a person who worked in the city of Donetsk as a mayor, a person who is a substitute in our political power, a professional, tolerant, respectable. Vladimir Vasilovich, I have a question for you. Today, the whole world, especially Europe, will not escape the crisis and Ukraine. I have, frankly, looked at the budget as the head of the social policy subcommittee, and I see that there is a decline in social protection parameters. Will you initiate such issues as viewing the minimum wage as a pension? How are mothers and children getting paid and so on? I mean, are you going to initiate those issues that are aimed at social protection? Our political power, the Party of the Regions, unanimously supports you as Head of the Supreme Council and calls upon all colleagues to support you. It's a very tolerant, very communicative candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u64	Thank you! Dear friends! I want to point out that the election is over. Let's all political forces, let's go back to the elections, and there the voters told us, give us jobs, give us a decent salary, give us a lot more. Let us focus our thoughts, our suggestions, on these very questions. Let's move. We can't do this when we don't hear each other. Let's be respectful. Choose me, I'll hear you. [[B in m in s a l in]] You need to hear me. And we're going to solve all the questions. I don't see any problems. But on the basis of the orders given to us by the electorate. People can't live like this, with that kind of pension, with that kind of salary. So let's support the President and give the laws that people need. Let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u65	Please turn on Donny's microphone, non-factionable.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u66	Good afternoon. Mr. Ribak just asked for the President's support. What Mr. Ribak is a representative of the old Donetsk is an internal matter of intrigue that they're putting on top of the Supreme Council. But now it's not the downfall of Tabalov, but the Party of Regions wants to abandon its President, the leader of the faction. After all, Viktor Janukovic signed the Law on the Rules, which clearly states about personal voting. And every region, an MP who votes for his guy who sits next to him, is dropping President Yanukovic, the leader of the faction of the Party of Regions and the Party of Regions. Therefore, according to article 29 of the first paragraph, which states that in the event of a violation by the presiding officers in the plenary meeting of the requirements of this Rules, a national MP has the right to contact the presiding officer without delay with a note of the rules he has permitted for the immediate elimination of violations. I'm asking for immediate removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u67	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u68	I'll answer that question. Let's calm down. We're going to have committees. The Supreme Council exercises control over its laws. [[B in m in s a l in]] ..under the regulations of control and we will work and control the laws that we adopt. It's in this room's jurisdiction. And I will support every deputy. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u69	Please give the word to Gordijenko, the faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u70	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, I am addressing those who have been here for 20 years in the walls of Parliament and outside Parliament shouting, "Get off," and things in the state are getting worse and worse. [[B in m in s a l in]] These are your internal problems, and you have brought this problem to the walls of the Supreme Council yourself. But, Vladimir Vasilovich, I have a question for you. Question one. We have often observed in the past Parliament, when, on behalf of the government and those who had important bills to report, secondary persons often came and we were thereby demeaning the role of Parliament. Will we support this or not in the next chamber? And here's a very important question for you. Today, the economy of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people wants and absolutely requires us to adopt a number of important socio-economic issues. We often do very secondary things, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u71	Please, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u72	I know exactly that ministers and governments will respect the Supreme Council. And we will work together, the government will hear us, the deputies, and we will listen to the government. All of this we'll find, an understanding with everyone. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u73	I don't have the right. Please give me your word, Schlemko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u74	Please give the floor to the national MP, Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u75	Dear Mr. Rybak, you see the indignation in the hall caused by the name of Tabalova. And not just because he's a traitor and a villain, but because he's in the Supreme Council Hall illegally. And for you, I think it's very important that voting is legitimate. A person who has not taken an oath to vote in the hall cannot use a national MP’s card. Therefore, the principle of the requirement of a hall, of all who respect the Constitution, to clean up this person, to take away the stolen card, and only then can you talk about legitimate choice. And one more question for you, as far as the Law on Voting for Every Deputies is concerned, separately for yourself. This is a requirement of the Constitution, please tell me, I will provide you with a requirement of the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u76	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u77	Thank you. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u78	I thank you so much for what's going on here, that it's not for me, and it's not for me, and it's not for me. I sincerely thank you for this. The other one. As far as personal voting is concerned, I think we should do this, we have five factions, we will manage the control system, and every MP will vote for himself. I came to Parliament - work. There's no time -- we have to go to another job and everything will be fine. We'll find a way to control you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u79	The question is given to the National Deputy Shevchenk, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u80	Vladimir Vasilovich. Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm here. I liked your last position. One question to you. How can you guarantee a personal vote when you are elected as Head of the Supreme Council and continue to do so? I'll explain why we're raising this question. Because of his unpunished crime, he will provoke a recurrence of these crimes. What's going on with Mr. Tabalov right now is not just a party of regions that hides him behind their backs. It casts a shadow, casts a stain on the entire Supreme Council. These are the very things that Ukrainians hate Parliament and Ukrainian politics. It is cynicism, betrayal, and lawlessness. That's not the way it's supposed to be. Second, journalists posted the first cases of buttoning in this Parliament yesterday. I am the special name of these deputies. These are our colleagues, Voropeyev and Malishev. They have the right to reply, let them explain why they voted for their colleagues, so it should not be. [[B in m in s a l in]] Article 51 allows a presiding officer to immediately remove a violation of the law, and use this article. The Ukrainian Parliament must start with itself and must carry out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u81	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u82	Vladimir Vasilovich, please give me one minute so I can tell.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen. I think you'll agree with me that one person's freedom ends where another person's freedom begins. And that's the basic principle of freedom. I thank the national deputy Tabalov, who voluntarily handed over his card to the chairman so that there would be no suspicion. I'm handing this card over to the Secretariat. And once again, I'm telling our colleague Tabal's thanks for doing this. [[B in m in s a l in]] He didn't sign the warrant, he handed over the card. Please, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u85	Dear friends, let's give this whistle that's in Parliament, well, it hasn't been all 20 years, nobody's whistled. Let's hear each other out. There will be committees, let's take a number of committees today. There will be a committee we will consider together, a committee will make a proposal, what to do, that there may be control, that all may go to this seed, that we may hear one another. Let's stop, the screams won't help us. I'm willing to cooperate even when you, I know, don't vote for me. It doesn't matter to me, it doesn't matter. That's your opinion of political power, that's normal. Let's listen and hear from each other, it'll all work out, not here, we'll go to the office, we'll go to the hall. But the discussion. This is a place for discussion, but the debates are healthy and the electorate, let's not forget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u86	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Miroshnichenko, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u87	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Andrey Mohnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u88	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u89	Andrew Mohnik, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Rybak, tell me, please, we wanted to ask you a lot of questions about how the " Rada" is supposed to work. But after that, really, the filth that is happening today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is questioning your legitimacy first. How can you continue to run Parliament? If you even take Rule 78 article part one, paragraph one, "that the Head is conducting a meeting of the Supreme Council in compliance with the Rules." Today, the Rules are brutally violated. And as long as it doesn't stop, there won't be any work. You have to understand that, don't you? Until this shit stops, there's no work to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u90	Thank you. Very good, very philosophical question. But the shit ain't the voters coming here to make us do it, we're doing it ourselves. In this room! I don't call names, I don't call political forces. So let's not do this! And I say again, let's hear from each other, and we'll work. No one's stopping us. Well, voter first, and it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u91	The question is given to the People's Deputy by the Freedom faction Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u92	The word is passed on to the national deputy Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u93	Please hand over the Pharyon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to focus on what is causing the biggest antagonism in the room. The biggest antagonism in the room is not a personal vote, first. Second, the attempt to legitimize right away. And finally, the third is giving speeches in a non-State language. So, Mr. Ribak, how are you going to address these questions, will you provide your factions with basic manual literature to help them learn the basic norms of the national language?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u95	Thank you for asking. We have the Constitution, it's written that we have the Ukrainian language in the national language. That is why we must all adhere to the Constitution. But if a man speaks Russian, I don't see much trouble.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u96	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. The question is given by the Brazilian, the faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u97	Please give the floor to the national MP, Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u98	Please give the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, it is more important than asking one more question. The fact is, in our country, political repression continues at the initiative of President Yanukovic of the Party of Regions. And tomorrow, our brothers, Yuri Lucenko, will meet his birthday in prison thanks to traitors, by provocations, by those who rob and rape the country. And I would like, at the commission of our faction, to hand flowers to Yuri Lucenka to his wife, Irina Lucenko, so that she can deliver them to him tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u100	Please, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u101	I answered the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u102	Please give my word to Chumaku, the Vitalia Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u104	Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u105	It's a strike. Dear voters, dear colleagues, I want to focus on another terrible antagonism from which the new Supreme Council begins its work. A party of regions divided the country into two classes, because we have some districts funded, some regions financed, others in the rest. Now here are the gentlemen from the Party of Regions sitting in the lobby trying to divide the deputies into two classes. Because three factions three times today have asked one question about Tabalov, about the communists, and you know how it went between the ears. I don't think it can be, we're equal to all MPs and speaker is the first of the equal. And I want to ask if you're going to hear the opposition at all, are we just going to be here for bullets to go nowhere? That's not gonna happen. First question. And the second. Mr. Ribak, all your parties have repeatedly expressed their disgraceful attitude toward women in politics, that women belong in the kitchen and so forth. I want to say that there are 44 women in this room -- national deputies. None of them have been removed today, in fact, from political acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u106	Please, Vladimir Vasilovich, answer. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're not speaking, we're asking questions. I ask you to abide by the Rules. Please let me finish Heratchenko. And Vladimir Vasilovich will answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u107	Thank you. I'd like two really answers to two questions. First, will the opposition have rights here and not simply ask questions anywhere? And secondly, will you honor women in politics, because so far no faction has ever presented in the leadership of even its faction any female MP? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. As far as the budget is concerned. You now choose the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the head of the majority or minority. That's why I have a state. And we're going to be dealing with the state with you. As for women, I don't know any men here who can either eat dinner or treat women badly. I think all men support me, and we'll be women backing me up. Do we have a deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u109	Thank you. The time for this part of our schedule is over. I'm asking you to sign up for factions and national deputies to discuss the candidate. Vladimir Vasilovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u110	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u111	Please sign up. From factions and from deputies, I emphasize that. Factions, please. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Mohnik. It's possible from the rostrum. This is a discussion. To whom should I give the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Tegniboku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Dragniboku. It's from the rostrum. I ask you again to explain who signed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u114	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear National Deputies! Dear guests of the Ukrainian Parliament! Dear Ukrainian brothers and sisters who listen to us! Today is an extremely important day, since the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine began and our work together will depend heavily on the fate of the Ukrainian State. Because there is no doubt that we want Ukraine to be a strong, powerful country so that we can be proud of our state, our economic gains, so that we can be proud of our authority. Although everyone understands well that authority is not loved, people criticize authority because it deserves it. Especially the present - day authority in Ukraine. And we would very much like the leader of the Ukrainian Parliament to be someone who could characterize all these best qualities and virtues of the Ukrainian politics. But the first hours of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have clearly demonstrated that the ruling Party of the Regions is unable to offer any candidate that could unite a Ukrainian society that could give hope to the Ukrainians for tomorrow. We understand that the Rules are being violated, the Basic Law of our State is being violated, the Constitution of Ukraine, but we assure everyone that the opposition will do everything to stop this vachanal. We have no idea that a representative from the Party of Power, from the Party of the Regions, will be able to regulate this process. We are deeply outraged at what Mr. Ribak said, but it is no big deal that in the Ukrainian Parliament they may not speak in Ukrainian. This practice of violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, violation of Ukrainian language legislation, will continue. It is because of the unanimous decision of the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom that we will not vote or vote for the Party of the Regions. And we hope that the time will come when the Ukrainian Parliament will be headed by a man who can be one who will be proud of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u115	The word for the speech is Kunicin, the "Vital Klitschka" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u117	Please, Vitaly Cliché.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, dear friends, dear guests of Parliament! As an MP, we all understand, we are gathered here and personally I, as the representative of the Strike Party, as the leader of the Strike Party, the representative of the opposition, understand that we must restore respect for parliamentaryism in Ukraine, this respect, unfortunately, does not exist today. People are very negative about parliamentarians, about MPs. As for the speaker. An independent parliament can be ruled by a purely independent speaker. And he has to run independently, first of all, from the President's Administration. Today, we see, unfortunately, how the party of power is trying to use administrative resources to overreach people to create pressure on MPs to do most of it, to drive to most of the MPs -- it's unacceptable. And that's why we see so much resentment, and that's why we see a lot of conflict here today. I wanted to address each and every one of you. The party of power today appoints not the Speaker of Parliament and not the Speaker of the Party of Regions, it's the Speaker that has to be the host of all the factions of Parliament, all of them. I want to say again that today is a pocket speaker, both for the President's parties and for the Bank's parties, suitable for the President and the Administration. [[Applause]] Vladimir Vasilovich, we don't have a personal claim to you yet. We're against the lead speaker. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u119	The speech is given by Koleschenko, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u120	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Voters! ( and) [[Noise in the Hall]] Today we see people who can't read in Ukrainian. We see people today who do not read the Rules of Ukraine. I would like to draw the attention of illiterate deputies to the fact that, in accordance with article 2 of the Rules, part three of the Rules, the language of the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined in article 9 of the Law on the Fundamentals of Language Public Policy. The Law on the Basics of Language Public Policy indicates that a member of the Supreme Council has the right to speak in the State language or in another language. We've got 18 of these. The faction of the Party of the Regions differs from those who can't even read in Ukrainian to what we hear. We give everyone an opportunity to speak. However, we respect the people of Ukraine. Today, we call on the people of Ukraine to assess their quality, these deputies. You have entrusted Parliament to those who do not even read, and the Rules do not respect their own laws. We certainly support our candidate, Vladimir Vasilevich Rybak, as the most literate, tolerant MP present here. And I believe that he will do anything to ensure that Parliament works for Ukraine, not for fascist organizations. Thank the people of Ukraine for supporting the faction of the Party of Regions! We support the candidate for speakership, Rybak Vladimir Vasilevich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u121	Thank you. The word for the speech is given to the national deputy from the "Fatherland" faction, the Kanovtsi. Please, colleagues, calm down. The word is given to the Horseman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u122	Please. I ask you to pass the word Arsenija Petrovich Yatzenyuk, the head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u123	Faction leaders, please calm down the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u125	The word is given to the national deputy Yatzenyuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Arseny Petrovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arsenius Petrovich, would you please take your place? [[B in m in s a l in]] Something today, Andrew the First, unfortunately, is not helping us. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please give the floor to the national deputy Arsenius Yatsenyuk. The Secretariat is to check whether the Council system works or not. Please, Arseny Petrovich. Turn the "Race" system on, check it out. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u126	Well, turn it on! Dear community! May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u127	Colleagues, please calm down. We'll vote soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u128	The first thing I want to do is talk to our political opponents. Love and Respect Ukraine! Love and Respect the People of Ukraine! Learn to Speak English! Know Ukrainian history! Learn English and love your country! That's what you've been elected to Parliament for, and that's what we're going to make you do in the new Parliament! And you saw it. [[B in m in s a l in]] The other one. The Honourable Community, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers, does not explicitly support the speaker of the Party of Regions, nor does it support the President of the Party of Regions and the Prime Minister of the Party of Regions. [[Applause]] Third. Every political power went to the polls with its program. We believe that the people of Ukraine are expecting real changes for the country. People expect the pension reform adopted by the Party of Regions to be abolished. And this reform will be lifted. People expect the Tax Code to be repealed and the adoption of a new codex. Because the code you adopted has destroyed 300,000 businesses, and we want to create millions of jobs for Ukrainians. And it's going to be done. We expect each item of our program to be executed. We will seek changes in the lives of Ukrainians, changes in higher pensions, high wages, low government spending. We will seek President Yanukovic's impeachment. And that's one of our tasks. [[Applause]] We will fight for every Ukrainian voice and for the future of Ukraine! Ukraine will be a democratic, European and legal state!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u129	From the Company, the word is given to Peter Simonenka, a faction of the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, speaking to all of you today, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that the events in the Supreme Council confirm that we have two Ukraines. Ukraine, which is now being painted for us, but not for the people of Ukraine, but for Ukraine, in order to enrich its own pockets. These are the ones who say who brought Yashchenko to power before. Whoever was talking at the time, let's say the team was fully operational. And the orange team worked for 5 years, starting with the Prime Minister, beginning with the President, starting with the Supreme Council Head, who was ineffective and unable to run the Supreme Council, and today he's making recommendations and advice. The second problem we face today. Regrettably, however, the internal situations that will be associated with the formation of a party list of some, such as political affairs and what they have done, today translate their own responsibility into the responsibility of the Supreme Council. It really shows the political incompetence of such leaders, and so let's say full, as they say, our attitude today should not be respectable to those leaders who are incapable of making order, but translate responsibility for forming "cushions." How did they come about? Well, you could assume, let's say who and how they formed the list and how, let's say, they got there. We understand that. And you don't have to speculate on that, ladies and gentlemen. You are responsible for how you formed the list and who you brought to the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Now I'm getting a phone call from the TV set and they're telling me honestly, they've turned the Supreme Council into a giant. Do not do what the people of Ukraine did not give you. And that's why the Company faction today claims that we will continue to take a principle and a consistent position on government issues, protecting social interests. And what you've stolen from us has always been our slogans, our programs, it just shows that we're on the right track as communists. And that's how we're gonna do it! Next. I want us to understand today that this is the situation, and the people of Ukraine have defined the political forces that have come to the Supreme Council. And in order for the Supreme Council to work, we are proposing today, indeed, on business grounds and, let's say, the possibilities of organizing the Supreme Council, the work of the Supreme Council, and we are proposing to determine our position. That's why we've proposed to the Supreme Council leadership our candidacy, Kaletnik Igor Grigorovovich for the First Vice-Speaker, and we're going to talk about how we're ready to step up organizationally today. The organization of work in a new state of quality, so to speak, is already the work of the Supreme Council. The Company's faction will vote in favour of Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak's candidacy. And so we suggest that we start a real job today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u131	Thank you. According to the time we have, the word is given by the self - exalting people of the people’s Deputies, and we will risk it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u132	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, not from self-reliance, but from the Radical Party. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u133	Excuse me, from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u134	What I'm about to say won't please the authorities or the so-called united opposition. But it's going to be true, and that's how millions of people think about what I'm going to say. First of all, all the leaders who went to the MPs on party lists, unfortunately they didn't meet people. People, what they see in the Supreme Council, they spit. At each meeting, the people told me how you can run one in ten, how you can fight there, what an example you are showing to the country! I ask those, I know the name of that deputy, I say later, the one who beat up the guard on the fifth driveway yesterday, broke his teeth, and, by the way, he's worried about cultural issues: it's easier to beat a defenseless young flag boy. [[B in m in s a l in]] If he's so brave, go, knock out Azarov's teeth, go knock out Yanukovich's teeth, go knock out teeth, eventually, Ephraim, or even me. Why are you hitting these miserable guys? That's not why we came to the Supreme Council. That's the first one. Second, about the question of "cuffs." You know my position: I'm against "carcases." But most of all, it's the one who made these "carcases." You should. And today, I'm talking to journalists, putting into practice a new term, not just "carcases," but "crusts rabbits." [[(Noise in the hall) (Applause)]] Bo. I'm addressing Ukrainian citizens. People are good, respectable citizens! You'll see there's not another one. And those who scream most that they are of the opposition are in the service of the authorities. There's more I wanted to say. Just before me was the leader of the Communists. You've been cheating on people before the election of their heads that you won't be in a coalition with the Regions. Today's vote for the Fisherman is a testimony to the fact that you've been in power for twenty years, "crawlers," so you're staying. Vladimir Vasilovich, I have great respect for you, you are a very experienced, authoritative man. But President Janukovic, who has submitted your candidacy and candidature to Azarov, makes great mistakes, for both your time and Azarov's time have passed. You had to be a speaker 20 years ago, not 67 years old, as you are today. As did Azarov, aged 65.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u135	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u136	Millions of young boys, girls can't make themselves a piece of bread. Millions of young people have no place to live, so they go abroad to take pots for Europeans. And we have all the guidance we can get is gerantrocrats and plus their relatives. That is where you have led the country and the authorities, and, so - called, united opposition, which is no better, no worse than power. And while the people are watching this circus, people have nothing to pay for the utilities, people have nothing to buy pills for, people don't have.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to sit in their jobs. Please take up your jobs. Let's go to the vote. The vote is put to the vote by Ukrainian national deputy Rybak Volodymyr Vasilovich on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:23:49]] For the 250. 250 votes. Decision taken. Let's congratulate Vladimir Vasilovich on his election. [[Applause]] I thank my colleagues for their support, both in the Hall and in the Presidium. And I'd like to see the factions. Dear colleagues, I have accomplished my mission. I invite Vladimir Vasilovich to the Presidency. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u138	Thank you. Thank you. I've been to school since I was a young fighter because I'm going to have to work together. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, I used to come to Ivano-Franco, and I was taught to speak Ukrainian, so I'm going to speak only in the national language. That's what I promise you. Dear friends! Thank you all very much. First of all, the People's Dept. of the Party of the Regions and the factions of the Communists, as well as the non-fractional ones that supported me. Thank you to the speakers, to the colleagues who made the critical remarks, who did not vote for me. We're all the same here. In the Presidium today there is a man whom you trust to organize the work of all the deputies. I'll do it. And I want to assure you that I will do everything in my power to work with you to organize the work of the Supreme Council in the legislative process in the interests of our people, our constituents in the development of our state. I believe, believe me, that you and I are capable of mastering our emotions, but I believe in it, and acting as members of the Parliament of a civilized European state. Everyone must vote for himself, not whistle, not hear each other, and there will be understanding. Once again, the people of Ukraine expect us, not to resist, but to work constructively. Thank you. Now let's get on with our work. We are representatives of the five factions, the heads of the five factions have decided to consider granting approval to the prime minister of Ukraine for consideration of the committee. The proposal to include in the agenda of the plenary today after considering the election of the first deputy and deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint the President of Ukraine as Prime Minister of Ukraine is being tabled. So I'm going to put this to a vote right now. This was decided by five faction leaders. I have to put it to a vote. I can't help but make five factions of leadership today. I ask you to vote on this proposal. And I will give my word to everyone. Please vote. [[12:31:00]] For 247 Decision taken. For 247. I'm asking for reasons of vote. Please, strike faction. Turn on the microphone, because I'm still a nickname. Turn the carpuntine on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u139	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Of course, we're already putting the day-to-day issue on the Prime Minister. But what I want to tell you is that yesterday's faction of the UDA party registered a ruling on the government's report in the order of parliamentary control, in accordance with the 85th and 113rd articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Of course, it was logical that when we have a change of government, and the government, the prime minister, we don't actually change, it would be logical for him to report to Parliament. So that we can perform the function of parliamentary control, and then we can look at it. So it doesn't look mechanical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u140	Thank you. Let's get to the point. We'll give the word to the Prime Minister, he's in charge today. And ask the questions you have. And now, honourable colleagues, we turn to the question of the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with part one of the first article 79 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I request that the MPs, the National Deputies be nominated or nominated for the office of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Please. Please, Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u141	Volodymyr Vasilovich! I would like to propose and respond to the fact that the Company’s faction, in accordance with the Rules, in view of the fact that the order of the day has been known to us, has made proposals, the corresponding documents have been prepared, and there is an appropriate decision. Therefore, in connection with the Rules, I would like to consider a specific draft of the ruling, which, on behalf of the Company’s faction, suggests that we recommend a review of the candidature and that we choose the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Igor Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u142	Thank you. There's a candidate for the Communist faction, Kaletnik Igor Grigorovich. Who has the second offer? Please. A maple microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u143	We're applying for Sergio Sassa.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u144	Sergei Sassa is a candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u145	Let him perform, let him perform, and let him take off.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u146	Is there no other offer? Do you have an offer? It's easy for a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u147	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I propose to serve as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of an experienced parliamentarian, an experienced lawyer, a man with a rich life experience and professional experience – Mishchenka Sergey Grigorovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u148	There's a Mishchenka candidate. Please turn on, advise, turn on the microphone. Chicken, Chicken, People's Deputy of the Coin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Kurenay, strike party. We suggest that we consider the candidate Valentina Navejchenka as our Parliament's first vice-speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u150	We're risking it. We're risking it. We, honourable deputies, let's not squabble at each other. We need to make a decision to move to the discussion of the candidates that have been tabled by the deputies. Candidates: Kaletnik, National Deputy of Sasa, National Deputy of Mishchenka and People’s Deputy of Naktawajchenko So I'm betting on the vote. Please, Deputy Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u151	Thank you. National Deputy Sass, BUIT, Fatherland. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! I want to mention in 2007 when the first session of the Supreme Council was opened, Alexander Turchinov, a representative of the BUT faction, Fatherskina, followed by Zvaric and in the distribution of leadership positions, gave office as the first deputy to the Supreme Council in opposition. I think it's important that similar traditions continue in the Supreme Council. A law was passed on the first reading of opposition in the Supreme Council Rules since September 2008. But I would like you to pay attention to that, Vladimir Vasilovich, in your work. But with my rights and the regulations of the Rules, I am a member of the Fatherland faction, and I submit and submit to fractional discipline.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u152	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u153	Thank you. And so in view of the fact that the Fatherland faction was not determined according to the appointment of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, I am withdrawing my candidacy. We're going to be supporting this position as a member of the strike faction. Thank you. Oh, excuse me, representative of the Freedom faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear deputies, well, it shouldn't be. Well, please turn the mic on again. Turn the carpuntine on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u155	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, in view of your gaining the authority of the Supreme Council, and as you remember, there was an agreement yesterday. Why was Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim in charge today, not Cozemiakin’s? We announced a break. But, well, not quite so under the Rules, you have to register in the morning, you have to report who registered, who didn't, who didn't. In accordance with the Rules, the cards of these deputies, if they are not physically present in the Hall, must not be voted on. I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to report to you whether our colleagues are present or not and that the cards of these persons, if they are not available, do not vote. I'm not going to ask questions about the Communist Party, the price of what it was, the whole party voted in favour of your candidacy. There's no question about the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u156	Secretary's orders: you give me the information, I'll inform you. I'll bet you a vote. Let me put three candidates to the vote for a preliminary discussion of these candidates. Please vote. [[12:39:40]] For 242 Decision taken. 242 deputies. Next. Let's define by the Rules. This is the order of the discussion provided for in article 75 of the Rules: to ask candidates to take up to 10 minutes each to discuss the candidate’s time by 3 minutes from each faction. May I put it to a vote? I'll bet you a vote. Anyone for such an offer, please vote. [[12:40:41]] For 239. Decision taken. 239 national deputies. Please come to the rostrum of National Deputy Kaletnik Igor Grigorovitch. Can I ask you a question? Please sign up for the question. People's deputies please sign up. Let's give all the representatives two minutes to a word and a question. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u157	I am well aware that the greater trust, the greater the responsibility. This is primarily a responsibility to the Ukrainian people, to Ukrainian society. At the same time, this elevated level of responsibility is a powerful incentive for effective work. Since the Supreme Council and then its Presidency, in particular the First Deputy Head, have an important mission: the building of a wealthy and just Ukrainian state, a state that is worthy of a place among the leading countries of the world. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is not just a place where laws are passed, it is a body that will determine the direction of the movement and development of the state and society for at least the next five years. Today, five factions are represented in the session hall, each faction has its own vision of development and its ambitions. That is why the task, including the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, is to set Parliament up for productive work for the sole purpose of significantly improving the standard of living of the Ukrainian people. First of all, there is a need to improve the effectiveness of legislation, particularly in the direction of economic policy. Under the global economic crisis, millions of citizens will expect informed and professional decisions from us. Fiscal legislation, anticorruption, agriculture, our international relations, education, and science are also needed for further improvement. The people of Ukraine need to see that the work of the Supreme Council has a concrete effect: laws that work for the welfare of Ukrainian people. Only in this way will we be able to restore people's trust in the Ukrainian Parliament. To that end, you and I must ensure the openness and transparency of the decisions we make, the public’s involvement in the discussion, and the objective visibility of the work of the Supreme Council. Because it's very important that they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, we have the first. Questions. Where's the list? Where's the list? Lukyanov, please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u159	Please pass the word to Mrs. Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u160	Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u161	Dear Mr. Kaletnik, I highly appreciate your professionalism, your sense of duty, and your civil position. But on one of the direct airs, one member of the Communist Party, who was not elected to Parliament, said that the NCSC had little shot at the Ukrainians. Are you alienating yourself from this phrase, or are you advocating democracy, human rights, and extremism?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u162	Thank you, Anna Mikolayevna. Well, the first thing that was said was that question. What about it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, a moment of attention! As for your question, it is vital for us, for every national MP, to uphold the rights and freedoms of everyone. Our job as joint parliamentarians is to ensure that every Ukrainian has freedom of speech so that he can live and raise his children, teach them, guarantee the right to employment and so on, and what was once, all the relevant pages of history, I don't think we need to copy and evaluate them today. Because Ukraine’s Company is consistently doing its work today in the direction of uniting our collective efforts to prosper our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u163	People's Deputy Mohnik, Freedom of Unity, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u164	Andrew Mohnik, Freedom. Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u165	Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u166	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First of all, Mr. Kaletnik, I want to say that's what your former comrade Kraleck said. They were spoken to all Ukrainians. So you either separate yourself from them, or take responsibility and answer to the millions of Ukrainians who have been destroyed by the Communist Party. But now, as to the substance of the question, the days before, you have been given information about your work and your work experience, and they have quite a number of inconsistencies and conflicting issues, such as the beginning of your work from 1987 to 1989, in the position of a diverse farm called Ilić, at the age of fifteen. Question: Did you do your job without going to high school, or was it just a workbook? That's the first inadequacy. Second inadequacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u167	Please, Shevchenka, the Freedom Union. ??? KALETNIK I.H. Finish your questions, get out. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u168	Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u169	Thank you. So the second inadequacy is that you have evidence that you have completed three educational institutions. Instead, we have copies of only two higher education diplomas. And the third inadequacy. In your work in the past and in your family, it says, "Two daughters." Instead, in your declaration of property, income, expenditure and financial commitment, you personally -- I hope you wrote with your own hand -- wrote that you have three daughters. Nevertheless, we want to eliminate inaccuracies so that there are no frauds in the Presidency of the Supreme Council if your associates vote for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u170	I thank you for such questions. First, really, there are some inaccuracies, because they haven't made some changes yet. I have three daughters and a son who was born a month ago. [[Applause]] Thank you. I'll make sure you make those changes, okay? As for diplomas, you can look at them, they're all, they're all real, in my personal affairs. Two diplomas from the Vinick Agricultural Institute, accounting and auditing and agronomist, and one diploma is the University of Shevchenk, "law." As for where you saw it, it's a good thing you reminded me where I worked when I was 15. It was, indeed, the work of the summer when my father was the head of the farm, when my father was the head of the farm, I was summer, when my classmates were on the river, burned, I was the dog of the cows, I worked at the farm, I was going through this work. [[Listen carefully, I listened to you.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u171	Thank you. Thank you. There is a question, and there is the answer. Please, Cibenka. Ukraine’s Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u172	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Cibenko. Honorable Igor Grigorovich, the electoral days before and during the elections, urged many of the political forces to rejuvenate our politics. Ukraine's company in this regard has taken a real step by recommending you to the position of First Vice-Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You've been given so much, and for you to be a real speaker, really a man to lead the parliament of Ukraine. I want to say that you have two higher educations, you're a candidate for law school. Percentage. Your working fate has left you in different regions of Ukraine -- you know the specifics of the regions. And as a national deputy and as the head of the largest veteran organization in Ukraine, I would like to ask you how relevant the question of strengthening the social protection of the various categories of the population of Ukraine will be, because, indeed, they are suffering very seriously today. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u173	Thank you for asking. I think it's a very important question for every national MP, for every political force in our Parliament today. Because it was you and I who took up the responsibilities of our electorate to ensure that the Ukrainian people were able to live in a flourishing Ukraine. Indeed, there is a problem today. Today we will listen to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We're asking extremely acute questions about social security and benefits for different categories of the population. We will stand up for them and these are also the programming principles of the Communist Party, so I think we need to bring together all those present in the National Deputies Hall to address these extremely pressing issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u174	Thank you. Shevchenko, Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u175	The Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Irina Sekh.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u176	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u177	Irina Sech, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Kaletnik, deputies of the Lviv District Council in 2011 almost physically intercepted a van carrying a smuggled cargo that crossed the border of Ukraine. The Lviv District Council has asked you and the Attorney General of Ukraine for serious violations of legislation. But you don't seem to be just covering up these things, you're just covering them up. So, please tell me, what is the status of this resonant case? As a Communist who declares the principles of justice, tell us what state of investigation, where you participated in the participation of the local councils, physically interrupted the van? In the documents where one was written.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u178	I'm done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u179	I want both the parliamentarians who are in this room and the people of Ukraine to know that over 20 years between Ukraine and Poland, the balance of the goods that came into the country amounted to over $1 billion a year. This was evidence of widespread smuggling, which prevented businesses from developing in Ukraine, which hindered the flow of funds to the State Budget. Last year, by 2010 and 2012, this difference had already accounted for about 2 million within the statistical margin. What you're saying right now, and once again stresses that in 2010-2012 it was in Lviv that about 500 customs officers were released -- the largest in Ukraine. Why? Because a large - scale corruption system was built in Western Ukraine, which is being broken today. I think on a particular matter that you asked today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u180	Thank you. It's time to finish. Turn the microphone on in the stands. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u181	You're asking the right questions, and you and I need to carry out parliamentary control to get this thing to a logical conclusion. And here we are with you thinkers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u182	Sit down, your time is up. I'm asking you to come to the rostrum of Mishchenka Sergey Grigorovich. Please, two minutes, Sergey Grigorovich, you and then the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Well, it's unexpected for me. But that's the only way I can get out of this rostrum on the seventh call. Because for the remainder of the sixth call, members of the majority voted to amend the Rules, where the majority were denied the right to speak. You see, I've tried three times today. I wasn't given a word. Yesterday is the same thing. No senior official was included in the reckoning commission. We do not have a new Rules for Leadership on Parliamentary Committees. God be with him, with this guidance! That's not the point. The question is, we don't have the right to go out on short notice! What are you doing?? Those who stayed here went from the sixth to the seventh. And that's why I'm asking you. I am willing to withdraw my candidacy, just return that rule so that this part of the room can just speak. We don't need the heads of the committees or your deputies there and the first vice-speakers there. You don't have to. Give me the right to speak on any bill! And if you don't give me that right, I'm asking this room to give me 45 signatures. Today, I have prepared a constitutional application to make those rules unconstitutional. So please, opposition, give me 45 of these votes. So that we can view this as unconstitutional. And finally. I have never seen the head of the Supreme Council choose in such a way. You humiliated Rybak. You know why? Because if that man, the carcase, wasn't in the hall, this part of the hall wouldn't be here, and it would be a peaceful choice. You think in the next, and the speaker, and the vice-speaker first who will, because there are arrangements for this part of the hall not to jump in, and this part of the hall does not protect its own. Because they're protecting their own. And that's why we need a job here. But these cartilages are provoked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u184	Sergey Grigorovitch, are you filming your candidacy? Oh, no! Please sign up, please sign up. Questions. We're going to shake up all the questions that are going to happen. I'm asking Pavlovsky, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u185	I ask you to give the floor to the Party's Deputy Fatherland Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u186	Sergei Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u187	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Mr. Sergey, you've been the head of Parliament's legal committee for so many years. You know the situation very well with the case of political prisoners in Ukraine with the conviction of Timoshenko, Lucenko. You yourself co-authored bills that actually made it impossible for any political repression in Ukraine at all. As you think, it is possible in this call for parliament to make sure that there are no political repressions in the country and that political prisoners: Timoshenko, Lucenko, and others are released. And the second question. You know that Mr. Ribak was voted again with a few missing persons' cards. Journalists have noted this. Please tell me, will you seek the immediate introduction of the sensory voting system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u188	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u189	Thank you, Sergei, for asking. On the other side. That's the first thing I'm going to try to do is a sensory button. Because I was offended when I was the fifth and sixth summons to work and I was doing the bill, and 30 people were pushing everything, the piano here was playing it, it was insulting to me as a deputy that I was going, and I'm speaking, and most of my colleagues in the Fatherland faction were doing it in the past, and the other part was doing it, and the other part was making money at the firm, and the other 30 were working. So this is the first thing I'm going to do. The other one. This is a huge mistake by the authorities who planted Julius Volodymyrý Timoshenko. Because Kuchma had a mind, he ignored Vitrenko, he ignored her, he didn't put her in jail. I. Yes. And what we did with Timoshenko is, you know, a disgrace to the whole world. And that's why we have to do everything we can to get political prisoners, first of all, Timoshenko and Lucenko to be released.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u190	Thank you. I'm asking Mrs. Heratschenko, "The Hit of Vitaly Call."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear Mr. Sergio, you were a member of the previous vocation and you saw the voting for the Rules Act taking place here. In its entirety, it was supported by a faction of Communists who was in that parliament, unlike this Council, by the Party of the Regions. And now they're violating the Rules, starting with the fact that they allowed a faction of Communists, which was then voiced by their first vice-speaker, they don't have the right to their faction today. In the same way, they continue to vote with other people’s cards. I have a question for you: we have made our faction, first of all, a decision on the sensory button, and how do you think we're going to force the House to implement the Parliament's decision signed, especially by the President of the Janukovic Region Party. And the second question is, how do we get a new speaker to follow the Rules? Maybe you'll be doing this as a vice-speaker to get all those people who aren't in Parliament before the vice-speaker vote. And this is the direct norm of the Rules, for which we, they voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. You know, it takes political will, most people need political will to make this disgraceful phenomenon disappear from Parliament once and for all. Deputies should go to work. Let me give you an example. This is where I live in the Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district of Globa Vasil Andrianovich. He was a 15 - year - old deputy three times. Or how much is there? 12 years. So he didn't intimidate anyone, he didn't bribe, he didn't sow Greek. Why? And because there was no parliamentary immunity in that constitution. And it's just that there's been a parliamentary immunity in our Constitution, the first one in my county is Bakay. Because business will always go as long as the MP's intact. I urge you, this is the first law that we should vote on, is the removal of parliamentary immunity. This bill is mine and Mikli Tomenka, where there were 398 votes. We must now vote and see, the eighth call of no businessman will lie in this House, the legislators will sit here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u193	Thank you. National Deputy Donny, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u194	Alexander Donnie, Kolomishte and Horatio. You're absolutely right, Mr. Sergio, when you say that the Party of Regions has made changes to the Rules, which have deprived the MPs of non-fractional voting rights in fact. And obviously, as a man of democratic views, you also understand that the first vice-speaker should have been loyal to the opposition, not the way the authorities wanted to drag their satellites out of the Communist Party. And the question is. How do you then feel about the idea that all four elements of the opposition that are in the Supreme Council should unite into something like a faction body, like a national council? So the factions of the Party of Fatherland, the factions of the Party of Strike, the factions of the Party of Freedom, and such as yourself, the patriotic opposition. If we were to unite and be able to resist this power, I think we could do so together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u195	Thank you. That's a very good question. You know why I don't join any factions? And because I'm waiting, what's going to be? When this crystallization is over, when the real fighters remain in opposition, that's who I will be. So that no one would come near me right now, that "come to us," that "come to us." I say I'm not going anywhere. It's my place. I'm non-fractional. I have 98 districts. And I'll see how many carcases there are. Whoever brought them these "carts," how they're going to work. Anyone who wants to free Julia Volodymyr's Timoshenko really wants to get rid of her. That's what's important to me. And then, Olesia, I think we're going to get together. I'm willing to join any faction then where they'll really protect Julius Volodymyr's Timoshenko. That's where I'm going to go, and as long as I see the carcasses running, I'm not going to go to any faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u197	Yes, I do. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u198	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u199	That's not a question, now I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u200	Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u201	I'm using it all the time, because I know I'm gonna sit down, they won't give me a word again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u202	All right, ladies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u203	Jaroslav said exactly. I want to tell you that it was unexpected for me, and I thank you, Oleg, for the offer. But I don't want the circus here right now, knowing the outcome, because there's an agreement on one side, in one political power with another political power to elect a prime minister. That's understandable. Everyone here knows what it's for. And I don't want to make a rift between the opposition forces. They have a candidate for whom they want to vote. Even if I voted in favour of my friend Sass, why did he quit because the rules are better than Sassa no one knows in this Parliament. Nobody. He's like a computer, ask him a nice question under the Rules, and he knows it. I'd vote for him. But, unfortunately, I don't know, maybe he's a nice guy, but I don't know him, he didn't notice himself. I'm right. And that's why I'm grateful, but I'm taking down my candidacy. He used all his time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u204	Thank you, thank you. We're out of the candidature. I'm asking you to meet me at the court of Nastavajchenka Valentina Aleksandrovitch. Please Valentin Aleksandrovitch, two minutes to you and then the answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u205	The Vitaly Klitchak Faction, Valentin Nastvaichenko. Praise be to Jesus Christ. I welcome everyone, the distinguished national MPs and everyone who hears us. And what I'd like to say most of all is, before everyone sits in a chair in a new parliament that's chosen by people, we need to set up and start a illustration of power. So Vitalia Klicka's team in this Parliament is very open to everyone's eyes: to all applicants for life in Ukraine, we have to have the criteria set by law for any position and also for executive heads. The first criterion from Vitali Klicka's team is not to be involved in corruption. The second in the law is the inability to suppress human rights and freedoms, a journalist, any deputy who works in the hall. The third criterion is the return of parliamentaryism to our state, respect for the work of parliamentary opposition, respect for the work of every national MP, the giving of word, the registration of the bill, and compliance by everyone regardless of the number of Rules and procedures established by law. And then our conclusion and our proposal from the Klitschka Faction: to set such criteria, to vote for them, and only then to move to personal candidates, to any position. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u206	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up, a question to the speaker. The Party of Regions, Herman Hanna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u207	Please pass the word to Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u208	Please, Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u209	Mr. Devajchenko, you have just declared high standards of democracy, but are you personally following these standards, or are you obstructing the work of other people's deputies, or are you always going to be present in the Supreme Council Hall, or are you always going to press the button yourself, or are your card going to be walking around the Supreme Council? Halls? And you give the word that you will never go out to the rostrum and block it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u210	My direct answer is, as far as personal responsibility and personal work are concerned, and my requirement is, yes, for every colleague of ours who has now entered the Parliament of the Seventh Call. In addition, the confirmation of such actions and words I'm initiating, and actually the strike team has already done so: everyone personally writes a written statement, agrees to check foreign and Ukrainian property for non-corruption, including family members, including checking possible offshore accounts through FATF, an organization that is struggling with money laundering around the world. So the personal responsibility and the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u211	Thank you. I'm asking Mikola Tomenko, Fatherland, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u212	Dear Mr. Valentine, do you think that while we are still working in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are far away from Parliament, but in order to transform the Supreme Council of Ukraine into a Parliament, we need to bring a living national MP back to the Supreme Council. So, are you going to insist that the "Council-3" system be turned on immediately, and personal voting has begun to work. And the second. I am absolutely convinced that until the Supreme Council's supervisory functions are over, there is nothing to be done here in the government's control and the President's activity. Will you support the demand of the United Opposition Fatherland: to vote in favour of a bill on special commissions of inquiry and a bill on the President's impeachment? These are two basic bills that will allow us to respect Parliament, allow us to test any official. Because you know, in recent times, no official has really reported to Parliament -- neither the President, nor the Prime Minister, nor any minister, is a disgraceful practice. Will you act with us to stop this shameful practice?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u213	The answer is yes. It's a direct commitment, just like the whole Vitalia Call faction, to vote in person, just like you say we demand. And what's more, I have the right and the pleasure of announcing, and in the second hour, our leader, Vitaly Klitschko, will sound the bill and present to everyone in general, every Ukrainian citizen that we have brought to Parliament from this day forward, starting to act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u214	People's deputy Lazko, non-factional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u215	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Fellow Jeremiah asks for the word. I'm handing it over.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u216	Please, please include Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u217	Mr. Valentine, I absolutely agree that the First Vice-Speaker of the Supreme Council should be a representative of the opposition forces or the non-fractional national MPs. Please tell me, in the event of your election, you guarantee that you will enter the sensory button and you guarantee that all the bills that will be submitted to the Supreme Council will go through the full procedure, not the way it is today?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u218	Dear colleague, I would like to confirm once again and, I'm sorry, this question has already been answered, I think, and our entire team believes that a personal vote, including a sensory button, should be introduced, including the Act, beginning with itself, on personal voting and personal responsibility. So the direct answer is yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u219	Thank you. I'm asking the Yavorovian People's Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u220	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina, the city of Kiev. The wise man said, "When everything's in place, some people don't have enough space." As a result, I want to ask you. I like that hit man, as it were, has put the issue of fighting corruption. Indeed, corruption today devours the Ukrainian state, morals, economics, and the Ukrainian statehood as termites devour the Ukrainian state. You were the head of the Security Service. You now claim a very high position in the Ukrainian State, responsible. Please tell me, are you ready to start fighting corruption from the highest echelons of power, such as from Janukovic’s son, who made colossal money in a year? It's a dentist. Imagine how many teeth it took to rip out Ukrainians, how many seals to make that kind of money! How will you act in this case?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u221	First. Dear colleague, I speak with you and I have the honour of speaking from this rostrum, not as a person claiming to be a chair, but as a representative of the Vitalia Klicka team. And we're talking about criteria, and we're proposing that every college in this room recognize not personal ambitions and who sits where, but the rules of the game and one law, and everyone before the law is equal. But the law, and I thank you that you feel the same way that starts to fight corruption, political corruption, in this room including, or even from this room. So the illustration of power, therefore, is the only criteria, starting with itself, including every authority under the law. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u222	Gordijenko, the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u223	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Valentin Aleksandrovich, when you started your speech and we were called upon to morality, honesty, orderliness, when we and the Ukrainian citizens listened, half Ukraine wept. Of course, who would not support such a thing? But I have two short questions for you. Question one. You led and joined the Party of Our Ukraine. Is it moral that you betray a party after party, seeking new owners and new political clothes, and bringing us up? And I have a second question for you. Here you're constantly acquitting us to vote in person. That doesn't apply to the faction of the Company, because we're in jobs. I have claims against the leaders of the opposition who in the past parliament will come, make a speech and go out of the hall and do not vote, and do not work in Parliament. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u224	Thank you. I have some bad news for you. It is not just about personal responsibility and personal voting, but we will demand and insist that no card stolen or illegally obtained to vote on the council is personal. The second bad news for you. The same way I think and demand by law, like the entire opposition team in this room, that exactly as far as your party is concerned, the requirements of the faction registration law for each of the parties that are in parliament and self-registration. The law was violated, so lawbreakers have no right to talk about morality. As far as the party's concerned. You talk to people who are personally responsible for their principles and actions. We have never betrayed or betrayed the principles, but the leaders we have lost are the question to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u225	I'm asking the People's Deputy of Paris, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u226	A boy named Andrew, the "Fatherland" faction. Mr. Valentine, our faction supports you, and I'm sure it will support a lot of self-sufficient people, because for many years you've given up your activities to fight corruption, and also to tell the truth about the crimes that both the Communist Party and its ideology have committed against Ukraine. Today, in a strange coincidence, the main competitor against you is Igor Kaletnik, who is at the same time a representative of the criminal communist system and, at the same time, a person who has become a symbol of corruption in Ukraine. That's two of them. Do you think it's likely that in the Ukrainian State, the modern state that has survived the famine, which today defines Euro-integration as its strategic direction, such a person could have a moral right to be a vice-speaker, and we support you as much as possible, and I believe that you have every chance of taking this position, because most self-regulators will not be able to press the button for a representative from the communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u227	Dear colleague, my friend, I look into your eyes and I see the eyes of those people who have gone through, indeed, the national elections and are chosen by the people, and are the protectors of the people. I'm convinced and I'm looking first of all at our brothers from Freedom, from the United Fatherland and my brothers from UDA, and I'm convinced that we will vote personally in this House and in return for our true respect and for Ukrainian citizenship, for all the nationalities of Ukraine and for all the Ukrainian heroes. The other one. I'm sure when we come together, we're going to put together criteria, believe me, and hear me out to all positions. And right now I'm not the chief candidate and candidate for a position like this, and I have the honour to address and ask for support in this room as people require, set criteria and choose officials, authorities and people in elected authorities, just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u228	Sit down, time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two candidates for the First Deputy. Discussion. Please register with the factions of the national deputies. I'm asking for a party of regions, Herman. You're handing it over, aren't you? You're written first. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u229	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to all of us to choose candidates for the first Vice-Speaker for the democratic procedure, when there is not one candidate, but many candidates who have the opportunity to make a statement to answer questions. And I think that's a very good sign for the first day of the style of management of the newly elected Supreme Council Head, with which I would like to welcome him. I hope that our Parliament will always act so professionally, so democratically. To listen to all sides, to tolerate and not to prevent them from speaking. I hope that everyone will learn to listen and hear, and they will not waste away. I'm sorry about that. But purely as a woman, I was terribly uncomfortable when the head of the Fatherland faction dropped the paper here, threw it right on the floor. Today, the opposition continues to be trashed in the hall. Can't be trashed in your own house, gentlemen! You can't! I support Igor Kaletnik’s candidacy as a professional and with a sense of responsibility for the position of first speaker. And I also ask you to support this candidacy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u230	Thank you. I beg of you, Freedom Union, Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u231	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u232	Pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u233	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today, indeed, we need to focus on the important fact that everyone is ignoring. That we in Ukraine are refusing to support the traditions of European parliamentaryism. Because traditionally, in all European parliamentary systems, whether it's the Westminster model of democracy, or the Continental model, it's accepted, in a historically established tradition, the position of vice-speaker of Parliament, the higher legislative body, to give to representatives of the parliamentary opposition. To carry out, above all, parliamentary control functions. What the parliamentary control in Ukraine is emerging, I don't think I can tell you. Unfortunately, part of the audience in this room are its architects. It's in Ukraine that the "hour of questions to the government" is actually turned into a series of formal monologues and no less formal questions of a subjective and critical nature. At the same time, when in normal European countries, in Italy, the first 40 minutes of the parliamentary session are devoted to the exercise of parliamentary control over the work of executive authorities. I have serious doubts about our faction in general that Mr. Kaletnik, who represents the party that was the architect of the gulag and the famine, is capable of presenting adequate parliamentary control over the actions of the executive branch. We have doubts that he is able to prevent attempts to transform Ukrainian parliamentaryism into a formal butaphoric broad over the establishment of authoritarian oligarchic criminal and capitalist dictatorship in Ukraine. We have doubts that a party representative who has actually become a symbol of corruption on Ukrainian customs has the right to represent Ukrainian workers. Perhaps he would represent the workers of Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Cyprus, and the Virgin Islands, where he hides his capitals in offshore areas. But not Ukrainian teachers, not medics, not officers, not engineers. This party, which was created, by the way, in April 1918 in Taganós in the territory of the present - day Russia, has no right to represent. So we think that supporting a party candidate who is legally and physically guilty of millions of Ukrainian deaths in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament is just blasphemy and abuse. Then the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom firmly states that before the open trial of the communists, their crimes, we have no right to accept the existence of anti-government, anti-Ukrainean and anti-national forces in our Parliament. Then the position of the Freedom faction is clear and clear. Under no circumstances do you support Kaletnik's candidacy. Instead, we express our support to the candidate from the strike party, Valentina Navejchenka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u234	Thank you. The Vitalia Klitschka faction is Mathios. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u235	Please pass the word Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u236	Who, then, is the national deputy, Mathios? Raise your hand. No, no, no. Raise your hand, National Deputy Mathios. Got it. Hand over Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, you know, when people come to this room, when people come to this room, not politicians, but people from another light life, such as writers, such as Maria Mathios, they lose their voice about what's going on here. It's very important that we leave our minds here at all when we're in this room. It's easy for me to speak after a colleague from Freedom because he made it very clear that in the democratic countries of the world, two and a half years ago Ukraine, the opposition belongs to the parliamentary function and the opposition belongs to the First Vice-Speaker. Because, as he once said, I don't know if everyone in the room knows who this is, but it was the great French President, the opposition is France, and the opposition is Ukraine. It's very nice for us to have experts where will is, who are now whistling at their colleague at the parliamentary rostrum. Good manners, boys, good manners. From. But what I want to say is that today the opposition is 80 percent of the Ukrainian voters. And that's exactly 80 percent of Ukrainian voters every second try to disrespect this room when they ignore it here, and they try to play the role of the speakers who are supposed to act on the principle of this power, this President and that kind of thing, "Speak, say, you're not interfering with us." We will interfere with you because we represent the Ukrainian people. And we are happy that every day more and more Ukrainians join the opposition, to which they do not belong. And so it's quite obvious that Mr. Kaletnik, who today is actually a representative of the political bribe of that party that was using his sponsoring aid in his action, "Let's return the country to the nation!" Returns the country of the people, by the people, it means specific guys from the Party of Regions. And this is a political bribe, which means the following: you're our speaker and prime minister, we're a faction that you have no right to -- and we're in the position of First Vice Speaker. I also want to say that this faction, which is not a faction, is the party that promised the nation, the last one that broke out of the budget of its prime minister, Azarov, in which they were dancing. You'll think about that number, a billion 300 million per customs. This is the kind of money that could go to teachers and doctors' salaries, 100 bucks would go away. And I want to say that this faction will continue every day, every second with Mr. Kaletnik, to give the country to the people from the Party of Regions, more loyally, than the leadership of the Party of Regions. That's why we're Mr. Nadwiczenko and we're against Mr. Kaletnik. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u238	I'm asking Parish faction Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u239	Dear community, Ukrainians! A boy named Andrew, the "Fatherland" faction. I'll remind you, in 2007, when there was a majority of the opposition in that room, we were handed over as vice-premier for minorities, for opposition, as is done in all civilized countries, as is done in any European state. Vice Speaker, First Vice Speaker. By the way, like a budget committee, like a regulatory committee, like a lot of other committees. Today, we see that Ukraine, which has taken a big step toward a European perspective, is once again leaping back into the Soviet past. Once again, the majority who came wanted to see the opposition only one who would sit in the hall and speak out against it. Because you have civilized rules. Which is acceptable to Europe, you don't understand them. They're not about you, they're not about you. You left the Soviet past and stayed there psychologically. The Fatherland faction doesn't claim positions, we want to stand up for the common people here. And that's why we're going to support Valentina Navejchenka in this position. But the fact that the Communists are putting out their candidate today, and the Party of Regions is voting, it shows the whole mess of this political union. The Communists promised in the elections that they would never go into alliance with the regionals. Today we see the answer to a simple question: how much does the Communist Party cost? It costs a vice-speaker position in Parliament, that's their price. These are the people who promised. [[Applause]] These men, who promised to fight bourgeoisies, oligarchs, and large capital, are now once again the battle force of the oligarchs and the great capital. They tricked their constituents. And that's what they're all about. This criminal political power, which should not exist at all among the political parties in Ukraine, has demonstrated today that it has no bearing on the workers, nor on the common people, nor on the interests of the people they claim to protect. It's just the service of the primitive and banal service of the large capital that is gathered today in the Party of the Regions. I want to emphasize that this alliance is disgraceful between the Party of Regions and the Communists it was and in the previous chamber, it's obviously going to be in this chamber. But I want to remind you, very quickly, this alliance will come to an end. A lot of people came to see you. [[Applause]] Your authority is falling. To the presidential election of less than two years, you will see how you will be run away, how the plagues will fear you, when all of Ukraine sees that you have no chance of continuing this power in Ukraine, this time will come very quickly. We support Valentina Navejchenka and we believe that the people who promised to ban the Communist Party and were such statements from the Party of the Regions promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u240	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u241	I'm done. There are people who have promised, come to Parliament, to submit a bill banning the Communist Party. I urge those people today, not to vote for their representative, but to support Valentina Navejchenka. Thank you and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u242	The last speaking Simonenko, the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u243	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the faction that the faction, recommending Igor Grigorovich to this position, came out of the following. In recent years, leading a Republican customs office, he has found a high level of professionalism, which is clearly organizational skills. And by the way, he came into this position when he went from being a simple person in this structure to being a leader. He's changed his post as Macarenko. And when he changed, he added 30 billion to the government budget in the last year when he worked. So I'm saying, 30 billion of you, of course, stole when you put them in the state budget. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that his state responsibility today has led to the fact that because of your destructive policies, he has today provided 36 percent of the government budget. You guys beat up guys, and he worked for people to pay their pension, their salary, and so on. When some bee bites are talking about a billion in orange mode, they forget that people work there, including in Western regions, it's people's wages, it's a billion, not your basican, which you today, so to speak, are coming from this rostrum. By the way, speaking of "tasted by bees," I'd like to take a stand here with respect. You've got five packs in your pockets, you've replaced five batches, you've replaced five factions. At least you can figure out what you want. You're constantly lying to the people of Ukraine about what you want to do. [[B in m in s a l in]] As far as the good news is concerned for some, let's say, political parties. I'm talking about unpleasant, I'm talking about pleasant. The Company faction supports the Book of Illustration Act. Half of you will not be here because one by one, three by one, so let's say, agents are, rewritten, others, so to speak, were, in cooperation, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were... It's you! [[Applause]] I support the Book of Illustration Act! I have to be supportive. About the piano, and who was running here, when, let's say, the Company's faction works all the time, and you were just running, you were playing the piano yourself, for 20 years. You've already played Ukraine. And it also shows that today we need to take a principled view of the political forces with which the slogans came. You have never told the truth to the people of Ukraine, and you have squandered Ukraine in 20 years. The people are beggars, you're in Western Ukraine, you're three, so to speak, district council leaders. And there all the people go abroad because of your policy of working, not in Ukraine of their own bread, and there are pots of night. That's your policy! [[B in m in s a l in]] And as for what Kaletnik said, this is said by the liberators who lived on the account of smuggling: he blocked their smuggling, and they immediately bolted all over Ukraine. It's called "patriots"! So the faction of the Company calls for today to vote in favour of principled people who can provide and organizationally solve these problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u244	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u245	So let's say you whistled, you already whistled to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, the time to discuss candidates is running out. Then allow me to put it to the vote in alphabetical order. And I'm doing it. I'll put it to a vote. Prepare for election as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, candidate Kaletnik Igor Grigorovich. I'm going to vote. [[13:35:29]] For 241 Decision taken. [[Applause]] For 241. Against 100. It's a zero. No vote, 87. [[Applause]] Factions: The region's 203, Fatherland is zero, Vitaly Klicka is zero, Freedom is zero. The company is 32, non-fractional is 6. Let's congratulate Igor Grigorovich on this position. I invite him here at the table of the Presidium. Please. Now let's pick one more, we'll be fine. Dear colleagues, we'll work this way. We'll settle all the questions with you. I have no doubt. We now move on to the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the part of the first article 79 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I request that you apply for the post of Vice-President of the Supreme Council. Your suggestions, please. What, no suggestions? Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u247	Honorable members of Parliament, we have not fought for office nor will we fight for office. We're going to fight for those software goals and tasks that we went to the electoral campaign. Therefore, the presence of the opposition representative in the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is nothing more than a form of parliamentary control over the activity of a credible majority. As three opposition factions, we have made a joint decision -- and we have put forward a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine signed by three leaders of three opposition factions on the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Kosulin Ruslan Volodymirovich. We think it's the person who's going to tell the Party of the Regions how the law and the Rules should be properly enforced. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u248	Thank you. Please, Lyushka, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u249	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Jaroslav, you don't have to yell! You have the worst result in the election of all the deputies in this room, and I have one of the highest. So don't shout!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u250	You have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u251	Yes, thank you. Dear fellow MPs, I have questioned my colleague Volkova, who has been here for 20 years in Parliament, whether there has ever been a woman in the Presidency of the Ukrainian Parliament. He said no, there wasn't. Irina Heratschenko was raising a question today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Irina Heratschenko raised questions about the restriction of women’s rights today. I totally agree with her.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u252	Give me a chance to make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u253	You know, over here. Vladimir Vasilovich, at the time they shouted, count in their time, not mine. I want to talk to new MPs who think they're gonna take me to my throat. Weak! Shut up! That's it. For men see all things: who is wise, and who is wise.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u254	Finish it!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u255	Vladimir Vasilovich, I think it'll be absolutely fair when there's a Ukrainian woman in the Presidium. Unfortunately, Ukrainian women from Timoshenko are sitting in jail, Ukrainian women are sticking bread, Ukrainian women are feeding you, and many are sitting and shouting. And they're bullying Ukrainian women. That's why I'm proposing that the Ukrainian woman Angel Labunski, the non-frustration national deputy, be appointed Vice-Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u256	Are there any other suggestions? There are no other suggestions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to calm down. I'll put it to a vote. Please, you're making an offer. Heroceno. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u257	Dear colleagues, I do not have an offer, but a replica, because my last name was mentioned in the context of Mr. Laska's speech. First of all, I want to call the session room, all the factions, to the notion of political correctness, because this is the same as our European intentions, European integration. It's different. I want to remind you that in principle, Ukraine made serious commitments to a decision such as gender equality. Now the three opposition factions have collectively decided that Ruslan Kosulinski is the person we want to see in the Supreme Council's deliberations as vice-president of the opposition, but to address the factions of the factions of all, to your leadership when the committees are distributed, yet to mention that women today make up 10 percent of the Ukrainian Parliament, and they have to be represented in the leadership of the Ukrainian Parliament -- this will also be in line with Ukraine's European objectives for European integration, and commitment? by tying Ukraine before the Council of Europe and the United Nations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to discuss candidates in the Hall: Kosulinski Ruslan Volodymyrovich and Labunska Angela Viktorovna. Ten minutes to report, two minutes to answer the question, and two minutes to speak. Are we gonna do factions? We won't. Are we going to ask questions? We won't. I put to the vote then questions to consider these two candidates without discussion. Please vote. [[13:43:41]] For 364 The factions. That's how we should vote on all the questions. Then I'm going to propose, prepare to vote, all of you, Kosulinski Ruslan Volodymyrovich, to be elected Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the basis of the vote after the vote, there will be no vote. Please vote. [[13:44:38]] For 305 [[Applause]] You're welcome. Let's see the factions. Deputies! We've got 15 minutes left. This is a suggestion to listen to the chairman of the Preparatory Group. Vladimir Mikhailovich is ready. How many minutes does it take, Volodymyr Mikhailovich? Please, let's hear it. And then we'll see in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u259	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I have to tell you that in this trash, here, where bottles are scattered, it's not very comfortable to speak and it's very ethical. This is not our Ukrainian Parliament. Please, calm down, calm down. Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 16 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, I will report to the National Deputies as head of the Preparatory Group on her behalf. In accordance with article 13 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Preparatory Parliamentary Group was formed with the participation of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the principle: one representative of 15 national deputies elected in a state or one-man district, and one representative of 15 national deputies elected in one-manship districts registered as candidates of the People's Deputies by self-determination. A party of regions in the Preparatory MP group was represented by 12 national deputies. The political party of the All-Ukrainian union "The Fatherland" – 7. Vitalia Klitschka's political party is 3. [[Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reforms]] The political party of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is 2. And the Communist Party of Ukraine is also two national deputies. Another two national deputies represented self - exaltation. That is, the 28 national MPs worked in the Preparatory Group. The preparatory parliamentary group began its work on November 22, 2012 and, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, will cease its activities with the establishment of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. There have been a number of meetings, with honorary colleagues, where we discussed the preparations for the High Council of Ukraine ceremony, as well as the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the formation of the Presidency, i.e. the election of the Head and the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, the session confirmed the form of an oath by the Ukrainian national deputy, as well as the order in which the oath was made. We have also determined the composition of the Counting Commission and have concluded that each political faction has the right to represent one person for work on the Counting Commission of 20 deputies. And we also made a decision that, unfortunately, the Supreme Council didn't make that there should be one representative from the self-regulatory deputies, to say the least of them. And if there are more than 35 people, then two representatives, as required by the Rules. I have to say that the Temporary Presidium has completely ignored this decision. I think we should go back to voting on the Counting Commission. I must say, my fellow officers, that there were six meetings of the Preparatory Group. At the last meeting, the sixth session discussed the issue of the list and subjects of knowledge of parliamentary committees. A total of 27 committees, plus the Privatization Control Commission, were approved. I thank all members of the Preparatory Group for finding compromise and making the necessary decisions hard to resist. You will be dealt with by the preparatory parliamentary group. I am thanking the Supreme Council of Ukraine for all their contributions to the work of the Preparatory Group. Thank you for your attention. If you have any questions, I am willing to answer them within the purview of the Preparatory Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u260	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. From this point of view, the Supreme Council does not make decisions. And there's a proposal to take information to the knowledge. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we've agreed, all factions, we're moving forward in the daytime. In accordance with article 106, part two, paragraph 9, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted a submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 10 December 2012 so that we can agree to the appointment of Mr. Mikola Janovič as Prime Minister of Ukraine. In accordance with article 205 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, this procedure is proposed. For a statement on the report by Mikola Janović, give up to 20 minutes for a question to the candidate for 20 minutes to discuss the candidature for 20 minutes. There's an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] And deputies, yes. There is a proposal to approve this order of action, please vote. I'll give it to I'll give you the procedure. [[13:53:10]] For 227 I beg of you, Deputy Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u261	Thank you. Deputy Sas, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, you promised to comply with the requirements of the laws and regulations when considering matters with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with part five of article 8, the President of Ukraine should be present when considering granting approval for the appointment of the Prime Minister at the meeting of the Supreme Council. And in accordance with part four of article 205, which you cited, the President of Ukraine is also taking part in the consideration of the issue of the appointment of the Prime Minister to the plenary. I'm asking you to comply with this requirement of the law. And next, Vladimir Vasilovich. We have a 16 - article policy on how to deal with matters. There is, in accordance with the Rules, after the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, an extraordinary message of the President is heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u262	Turn on Deputy Sassa.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u263	What the preparatory group has accepted is of a recommendational nature. So I'm asking you to put a one-time ad hoc vote on the list and sequence of issues if we've already considered the report of the Preparatory Group's head. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u264	Dear colleagues! I follow those arrangements that were with the leaders of all the MP factions. And I can handle this clearly. So let's not waste time, let's look at the question, then take a break, and we'll work on the committees and stuff. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u265	Sit down, I'll give you my word. I'll give you my word. So I'm very clear on the sayings of the deals that were with the faction leaders. That's why I'm going to give Laszka one minute and give the floor to Prime Minister Mikola Janovich. Deputy Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u266	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head, the newly elected Head of the Supreme Council! You know, obviously, our problems throughout the country are because we live by agreements, not by law. I understand that perhaps in the Donetsks, which you are a novice, the main thing is arrangements that are very often not held by the truth. But the Supreme Council is governed by the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure Act. The law provides for the presence of the President. Please secure the President's presence. Moreover, it is obvious that you, as the newly elected Head of the Supreme Council, have not yet been able to get to know all the composition of the Supreme Council. In addition to factions in the Supreme Council, there are non-fractional deputies. And I would ask you not to limit the right of non-fractional deputies to the 20 minutes you've taken to discuss the Prime Minister's candidature, because five factions of three minutes, that's 15 minutes, and all the rest of five minutes. So I suggest you take half an hour to discuss, so that there is a possibility, the questions to Mr. Azarov are very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u267	Thank you. I ask the deputy of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u268	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, dear colleagues! We agreed to do the Law. This is the norm of the Rules, which provides for this rule: 20 minutes for speech and discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u269	The report shall be given to the candidate for prime minister. You'll ask a question. From the faction. Please hit me. Who? Please, Vitaly Cliché. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u270	Before we proceed to the discussion and then to the vote, our proposal for Mr. Azarov as Prime Minister is to report on the previous activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u271	Report. Let's hear it. I give the floor to Prime Minister Mikola Janovich Azarov of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u272	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens! I would like to welcome you with the start of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. This one. [[Applause]] This Parliament will have to make a number of large-scale decisions under very difficult, uncertain conditions. What is the special responsibility of the moment? The crisis in the world economy continues to deepen. Despite expectations of a gradual recovery in economic growth, this has not happened in the lead countries. Growth has also slowed down in developing countries. This means that, at least in the coming years, the possibilities for exports of Ukrainian products will be narrowed down, and the available financial resources in the external markets are limited. If we do not want to live under the rule of crisis, the new government, together with the new parliament, has to address the pressing development issues, relying primarily on the internal potential of its own. And Ukraine has to come out of this crisis with a stronger and more stable external economic shocks. It is this ideology that is based on the programming tasks developed by the President of Ukraine for the new government. Ukraine has little time to complete systemic transformations and to bring about a radical modernization of the economy, industry, and key social institutions. Within two and a half years, decisive action was taken. At the same time, in order to achieve a sure and tangible improvement in the quality of life for a citizen, the rate of transformation must be accelerated. What do people expect from us? Simple things: stable prices, projected exchange rates, savings in jobs, timely payments and higher wages, pensions, scholarships. But these simple things do not appear automatically. They require hard and professional work of legislative and executive power and sometimes difficult decisions. We are carefully analyzing the anti-crisis measures that the countries of the European Union are taking. They usually result in a significant reduction in the social expenditure of the budget and an increase in taxes. Individual states do not take unprecedented steps. The Italian government, for example, decided to increase VAT to 23 percent, to introduce utility taxes, and to increase the retirement age to 66 years. The Spanish government increased its income tax rate by 6 percent. I am responsibly saying that Ukraine will not go that way. Our citizens don't yet have the same income as the citizens of the European Union, and that's why we're not going to translate the burden of the crisis on the shoulders of ordinary citizens, just as we didn't translate it in terms of a sharp increase in the price of gas. I also find it totally unacceptable to increase the tax burden on a national producer. Under difficult economic conditions, economic growth is possible only if there is mutual understanding between power, society and business. Dear colleagues, the new government will continue to implement the Economic Reform Programme and the new social policy of the President of Ukraine. State policy measures will have one goal: to significantly improve the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens and the social guarantees of the state for citizens. This can be achieved only on a strong economic basis. In the coming years, we need to maximize the full potential and ensure the growth of the national economy. During the period since the 2008-2009 crisis, much has been done to reduce the sensitivity of our economy to external shocks. But we have to admit, under the terms of this, it's not enough. Ukraine’s economy retains its export-oriented and raw expertise and thus remains vulnerable to external conditions. So we need to use new incentives for high-value internal reinvestment to actively implement import policies; diversification; and energy efficiency reduction. Changes in the export structure should be made in favour of products with deep processing and application of new technological solutions. Our efforts will focus on stimulating the development of the internal market, reducing Ukraine’s dependence on external economic conditions, increasing its competitive advantages, and supporting domestic exports in foreign markets. That is why the priorities of the new government will be to expand and strengthen economic freedoms, and therefore maximum deregulation of business to reduce the involvement of control and law enforcement authorities in business, as well as to increase responsibility for unmotivated intervention; to accelerate work by creating conditions for fair and free competition; to protect property rights; to strengthen a fair judiciary; and to implement anti-corruption mechanisms at all levels of government. First of all, measures will be taken to stimulate domestic demand for domestic production, increase employment, namely: the development of domestic production with a wide range of economic instruments, direct budget support, tax incentives, and the loss of State guarantees. The implementation of infrastructure projects as a basis for the development of productive and transit potential and the improvement of social infrastructure that directly affects the quality of life of people. Promoting the creation of advanced agri-industrial infrastructure and social infrastructure in rural areas Strengthening Ukraine's energy independence, increasing its own energy consumption, diversifying energy supply, introducing energy-efficient technologies, stimulating investment in the modernization of the gas transport system, oil-processing capacities, housing and utilities, and so on. Emphasis will be placed on strengthening the protection of the national producer from unfair competition or increasing imports. In addition, we have put in place a mechanism for state financial support for exports, insurance, credit, guarantees, including through the creation of an appropriate state financial institution. Budget resources will focus on supporting priority innovation projects aimed at developing domestic production and increasing the export of innovative goods and services. A few specific examples. The part of the imported raw material and the ingredients used in domestic production exceeds 60 percent of the total import volume. So the main task is to effectively use the already created incentive system to technologically rebuild our production for the purpose of replacing or reducing part of the imported ingredient, for example, it is necessary to restore domestic agriculture. At the legislative level, an incentive system has already been approved for technological upgrading of agricultural enterprises. State aid will also be extended to such enterprises. In addition, we plan to create the production of modern sophisticated agricultural technology with the participation of leading foreign firms and to provide incentives for the acquisition of such technology. The goal is to set up the production of agriculture and equipment for the APC in five years, including those that are not currently being produced in Ukraine, in order to increase the share of the domestic segment to 60 percent. It is no less important to upgrade the country’s technique, the railway park. The cargo and passenger are more than 13,000 units. As well as passenger buses, almost 7,000. A critical problem is the overcrowding of Ukrainian consumer markets by imports of household technology and goods of light industry. During the first half of 2012, imports of long-term use and light industry were introduced on the trading network in 8.5 and 5 more than the same domestic products. Of course, such a relationship cannot set us up and should be radically changed to the shortest term. We can cut by one and a half parts of the import production of machine-building in the structure of the final consumption of the population. This is important not only in terms of improving trade balance but also in terms of increasing the number of high-paid jobs in the domestic high-tech sectors. Thanks to already adopted legislative incentives and measures, we have every reason to double the export of software by 2015. We need a new energy strategy that will halve the energy efficiency of the economy by 2020. At the same time, this will ensure Ukraine’s full energy independence. There are many other ways of activating the internal potential of Ukraine's economy. But above all, we need to make effective use of the conditions and opportunities that have already been created. Clearly, such complex work requires strong legislative support. Among the prime drafts are amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, which will allow for more involvement of a domestic producer in the public procurement procedure. For example, one of the qualifications criteria will be the availability of its own production capacity or service centers in Ukraine. Ukraine's draft State Development Bank Act, which will finally create the right conditions for implementing long-term investment and innovation projects in priority areas of the economy. Ukraine's improved Higher Education Act should ensure that higher education is modernised and adapted, that it is adapted to European standards, that a regulatory framework for higher education is brought into line with the challenges of innovative economic development. The new edition of the Innovation Act is an extremely important element in reforming the system of financing and managing scientific and technological activities. Equally important is the adoption of an internal trade law. On the one hand, it is necessary to put order in business and on the other hand to protect the domestic producer and consumer. The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, the honourable citizens, I am deeply convinced that for all those gathered in this room, the interests of the people of Ukraine are above all else. We have one agenda together: the development of the country. There's no alternative to that. Each of us promised this to the people of Ukraine during the elections. The election competition is over. All the political forces told the electorate everything they wanted, and they got the result that they did. Now is the time to realize that we are responsible for the effectiveness of the work of authority. The country needs a good parliament and a good government. Continued opposition in today's situation is the way to nowhere. In the world, everyone struggles for his own survival. Ukraine must be strong in this competition. So we need to do our best and exert ourselves to meet the external challenges together. We can and should have as much discussion as we can in the middle of the country, but with the outside world, we must communicate with one language — the language of protection of national interests. Like other nations, we cannot give our chance to develop, nor do we have the right to waste it because of strife and a destructive political position: the worse the better. So I'm officially proposing that the opposition come together at the negotiating table and constructively, coming out of the national interest, look at all the issues that are critical to the socio-economic development of the state. We need to discuss our position on improving the conditions for joining the World Trade Organization and working with the Customs Union. We need to find compromises in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. We have to complete the reform of the judicial system, the electoral legislation as recommended by the European Union. As well as ensuring the implementation of the European Union-agreed agenda for the signing of the agreement, including an inclusive area of free trade with the European Union. We need to identify the legislative and resource concentration of infrastructure projects and the development of the internal market. So today we need absolutely all the pragmatic statesmen. All the effective professionals under whom they did not stand. We must realize that we are not enemies in this room, we are opponents, but we all want the best in Ukraine. I am deeply convinced that Ukraine is looking forward to a good future. Every political force must do everything in its power to unite the people of Ukraine around the vast tasks of national development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u273	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Honorable deputies, but not brought. I'll tell you what. Listen a minute. I want to consult with you. We still have today, we have to finish this consideration and take the decision of the Supreme Council. We have the President's address, five minutes. And we have a proposition: to consider today the list, the number of committees, without objects of knowledge. And finish today uninterrupted work in the Supreme Council, then take a break until Wednesday next Sunday. And we're going to be able to work on committees, pick managers, put them on, and so on and so forth. Can we put this proposal to a vote? I'm betting on the vote: who's in favour of considering three of these issues today. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a majority office in the regions on Wednesday, and they ask for a meeting on Tuesday. Well, that's fine. May I put it to the vote? I'll bet you a vote so we can take a look at three of these questions at a time and figure out when we're going to get together. I think it's Tuesday. And by Tuesday, we'll be working on names, committees, distribution and stuff. I'll bet you a vote. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. [[14:19:25]] For 243 Decision taken. Factions: Region Party - 195, Fatherland - 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka - 9, Freedom - 0, Company - 30, non-fractional - 9. Let's get back to work. I'm asking you to sign up for a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please sign up. Yes. People's Deputy Kirilenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u274	Viacheslav Kirilenko, a united opposition. Mr. Prime Minister, with your optimist speech, you can kill anyone, even Ukraine. But what I've learned is that for you to see your future activity and your past to know two words, you've come up with: the first word is "papiedients," and the second word is. You should know for yourself, "improvement." And so the paper-eatings are already sitting -- so everything is normal, the first part of your program you've done, and the improvement -- we're all eating right now, the whole Ukrainian people. Here's a question. Where are the improvements for retirees, for black people, for veterans, for all the social classes, when they've got the benefits and the benefits? Will it continue? And the papyredics. You've called for opposition here at the round table. What about the release of political prisoners: Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko? And like you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u275	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u276	And how do you personally feel, Mr. Prime Minister, that your authority is using the way of collecting political accounts through imprisonment as the primary way of establishing power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u277	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u278	First of all, I want to say that it's 2.5 years for both the country and our citizens, but we've ensured that the gross domestic product increases by more than 10 percent. That's a good indicator. I'd like to, but if you're watching what's going on in the world, in Europe, you have to find good words to evaluate these economic indicators. The main goal now is to ensure the accelerated development of the country. This is based only on increasing social performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u279	Thank you. I'm asking Mikhalchisin, the Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u280	I'm asking you to give the floor to the National Deputy Irina Farion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u281	Pharion, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u282	Sir. Comrade Azarov, I have made an effort to listen to your report, which is from a totally unrealistic world and in a form of a dwarf. I have a question for you. Your Kabmin has initiated the cancellation of the obligation to duplicate films in Ukrainian. Please tell me, is it comfortable for you to live in the world among Ukrainians whom you do not accept or respect? That's the first one. Second, Socrates said what he was saying, and I'll see you. The whole country is practicing your speech comics. How to help you in this, in this problem, would you like to address the problem at an elementary level in two contexts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u283	Finish it, finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u284	The language is unknown to those who are either politically prejudiced or mentally retarded. So what coordinate system are you in?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u285	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u286	I agree with you, improve your Ukrainian language.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u287	I'm asking the People's Deputy Sanchenko, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u288	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u289	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u290	Mr. Claimant, I have a question for you. Your Government has entered the unprecedented fact that public procurement is conducted without competitions, as required by Ukrainian legislation. Last time you hired an American law firm, which, by the way, for your money confirmed Timoshenko's innocence and political bias over her trial. But there's a question, please tell me, how did you manage to get a hundred thousand dollars to order ten U.S. lawyers who worked here for a few months? Learn how to do this. How do you wash the public budget money when billions and billions of dollars go beyond the competition and beyond any tender procedure? But the first question I'm asking is, answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u291	All the government's actions are in line with the current Ukrainian legislation and we have not made any decisions that violate the current Ukrainian legislation. Please study this legislation and give specific questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u292	People. People's Deputy Agafone, Vitalia Calla.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u293	Mr. Acting Prime Minister, I have many questions for you, but I want to ask you only one question, and it relates to the life in debt that your government has driven and continues to drive. The 2013 draft budget, adopted by the Council of the past call, provides $35 billion to service government debt interest. There is also 135 billion new government debt. This is the life, the course the country is going to take? After all, if you count each person, the national debt owed to each person only during your government has doubled to 13,000 dollars per person during the reign of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u294	Thank you for asking. I'm willing to discuss this with you personally, respectfully. But in 2010, we had to pay off about 90 billion debt, in 2010, 90 billion debt. Ukraine has a relatively low ratio of government debt to gross domestic product. Do you understand that? So there is no disaster for our economy and our countries that have no debt. Yes, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u295	Freedom Union, Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u296	They're not going to vote for me, they're going to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u297	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u298	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u299	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear, in every sense of the word, Mikola Janovich! As we know, article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the budgetary system functions on the basis of a fair and impartial distribution of social wealth between citizens and territorial communities. There are many people in this room who have experience working in local self - government. So, over the past year, something like this has happened to us that the Cabinet of Ministers, under your leadership, has allocated to the Donetsk Region 829 million budget dollars of subsidies and at the same time for the 8 regions of Western Ukraine just as much as 411 million government funds. So it turns out that the Donetsk area is going to get ten times more than any resident in the Cherniewsky, Hmelnitsky, or Lviv regions. Please explain such budgetary principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u300	What area do you represent? What's that? Lviv? Does Lviv still regret it?Oh, my God! Lviv! Dear National Deputies! Lviv received about 10 times as much subsidies in 2.5 years as Zaporozhye. [[B in m in s a l in]] To be serious, if spoken, yes, subsidies are granted in proportion to the legislation in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u301	Deputies! There's a question -- there's an answer. And there are your speeches. Come here. Anything you think you can say. Stoyan, please. Party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u302	Dear participants in the meeting! Dear Mikola Janovich and our listeners! I would like to remind you that when the government of Azarov arrived, the government of Timoshenko left a two - year frozen salary for teachers, doctors, and a minimum pension of 498 dollars. And it was possible for the government of Azarov to review the minimum wage five times every year and close 100 percent to the minimum of living, to review five times the pension. This year, I remind you, the government has allocated 23 billion dollars to compensate people's pensions, to modernize pensions for people who retired in 2008, to help families with children, and so forth. But, Mikolo Janovich, I have a question as the head of the social committee. Mikolo Janovich, why is it only proposed to review the minimum pension twice this year and the minimum wage twice this year? And the last. Mikolo Janovich, started to do a very good job, 6 million to return the savings lost, 6 million to go. Will they also return this year, in the following year, and in what amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u303	Thank you for asking. This article is saved in the budget and will no doubt be extended. With regard to the double increase in social standards. I've been talking in both the report, and in response, how things are changing in the world, in Europe, in our main trading partners. If the situation changes for the better, we have foreseen an opportunity to review the sum of the first quarter of the State budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u304	I'm asking Rosenko, the Vital Clicko Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u305	Paul Rosenko, "Vital Call." Mikolo Janovich, the most accurate statement in your report was that the economic crisis in Ukraine has begun to deepen and deepen – it is perhaps the most appropriate response to your activities. But let's go specifically for the improvements that all of us have experienced, our citizens, over the last three years. During the past three years, in state - owned enterprises, debt on wages in Ukraine has increased by 30 percent. What's to say about other businesses when you don't pay people their wages on time in those businesses that belong to the knowledge of government, the ministry, the central executive body. I'm not saying that today, New Year's Eve, all the budget workers, most of the teachers, doctors, have to write their own statements and go on free vacations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u306	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u307	So the question is, Mikola Janovich. Don't you think the government has completely lost control of the wage situation in Ukraine? First question. And secondly, why was no minister or executive executive director released in three years for employee debt?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u308	That's not true for one thing. And when you worked as deputy minister of social security, the debt on salary was about 2 billion. [[First one, huh?]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u309	That's not true!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u310	It's absolutely true, fixed by the State of Statistics.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u311	I'll give you my word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u312	Now, debt is down to about 786 million. This is the debt of bankrupt companies. And unfortunately, this debt is solved, and this debt is solved very poorly. I'll admit it. But the government is completely controlling the pay-out situation. So let's not speculate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u313	I beg you, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, Bilkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u314	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u315	Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u316	Mikolo Janovich, because improvements have been made that no one has experienced, there is no protection in human courts today. As a result, corruption that prevents anyone from working has become much deeper in the executive branch. The state-owned enterprise that has been eliminated and restored by the service today only pretends to protect some entrepreneurs. The tax office even nullifies the Tax Code, which has been adopted, by its decisions, by regulations that restrict the rights of entrepreneurs. In order to pay the environmental tax for 50 dollars, it is necessary to pay 5,000 or more to pay the environmental tax. But I have a question for you about KWEDAM. It's the last few months. The so - called classification of activities was earlier in 2005, now replaced by the decree of the State of Statistics for 2012.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u317	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u318	Thank you very much. Please tell me that the last few months due to the lack of funding, the delistors can't work in all the regions. Accordingly, entrepreneurs cannot change those KWEDs that have been changed according to a single government order. Please tell me you can change the situation so that entrepreneurs can't be fined for not being able to follow stupid orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u319	Of course, if there is a problem, we can solve it. I invite you, Oksana Prodan, to work together. But a few words. Income tax. Two and a half years ago, it was 25 percent, and from January 1st of next year, what will it be, Oksana? Well, how much? For everyone. 19 percent. 6 percent of the profits should be used to develop businesses. Isn't that an improvement? So I always offer specific discussions about these business-related issues. I am ready to consider them and make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u320	Pavlovsky National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u321	Andrey Pavlovski, deputy of the faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko "The Fatherland". And I have the honour to give the floor to the woman of the politician Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u322	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u323	Deputy Lucenko, Fatherland faction. Mr. Azarov, did you want specific questions? Dates, please. I'll give you a specific question, please give a very specific answer. On 20 November 2012, the Grand Chamber of the European Court confirmed the politically motivated and illegal arrest and detention of ex-Minister of the Interior Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich behind bars. According to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions of the European Court of Justice and the Application of Decisions of the European Court of Justice, there is a point where individual and general measures on the restoration of Lucenk's legal status should be applied until he has been arrested. I have a specific question for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u324	Dear friends, that's more than a minute of words today. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give it to Well, let's all bet in a minute, okay? Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u325	If it was a matter of one day in prison, I'd bet. Two years of lost life and health. Please treat this with respect. A specific question to you, Mr. Azarov. In accordance with article 116, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, your primary function is, the Cabinet of Ministers - the Cabinet of Ministers - is taking steps to ensure human and civil rights and freedoms. Question: Will you be violated as Prime Minister of Ukraine to the Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney-General's Office of Ukraine on the criminal offence of relevant officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in particular: Wojchenka, Deputy Attorney-General Kuzmin, the relevant courts, beginning with Pilaieva, ending with the three odinous courts of Vuka, Tsarevich and Medusevsky on their criminal offences under the articles correctly: 364. [[tracker]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u326	Thank you. You're done, you've moved on, that's enough. Please, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u327	If there is a decision by the European Court of Human Rights, the competent authorities of Ukraine will consider this decision and decide accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u328	Thank you. Question time's up. People's deputies will be asked to perform, as we agree, by factions. [[Applause]] Please. I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you. And I'll give you the same as the non-faction ones. Please. Half a minute, please. Rosenka, turn it on, half a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u329	Mikola Janović, when I was really the first Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and when I was the first Deputy, there was no debt in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on salaries for employees of our businesses. [[B in m in s a l in]] So let's be correct. And in three years, you've increased this debt by 30 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u330	Thank you, thank you. The word is "Shevchenko," the faction of "The Fatherland." And he'll be followed by Cliché. Is there a Chewchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u331	Please pass the word to the faction's head Arsenia Yatzenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u332	There's Shevchenko. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u333	The honourable members of Parliament, unfortunately, have not heard from the Prime Minister of the report for what he has done with President Yanukovic in the last 2.5 years. So the opposition will do your job, Mikola Janović, and remind you of the improvements that the Ukrainian people have experienced. First, you've improved your pension reform. You promised the Ukrainians a pension increase, as a result you raised your retirement age, and in 2013 you will have a record pension deficit of 83 billion dollars. Then you started to improve the tax system. You have adopted the Tax Code, which destroyed 300,000 businesses and converted the Ukrainian business and the Ukrainian economy into a complete and complete shadow. Then you went on to improve the welfare of the Ukrainians, and as a result of the State Budget Act over the past 2.5 years, you have made a record increase in spending on yourself, on the President, on the government, on the militia and the prosecutor's office of 6.2 billion dollars. And then you took on your programming responsibilities and told them that the people of Ukraine would live very well in 2013 at least. And you've raised the minimum living standards and the minimum wage to 12 and 13 bucks. Therefore, first of all, I would like to begin by adopting a special law in the walls of Parliament, which provides for the following, so that the Prime Minister, who has been suspended, has to go to the pension he has made for 45 million Ukrainians. Mikola Janović, a thousand dollars in pension. [[Applause]] The other one. Dear colleagues, this government has worked for 2.5 years without a program of action. President Janukovic announced some bizarre reforms. We do not know what the reforms are, except that Ukraine has reached the top in corruption, crime, economic vanity and hopelessness. It's the credit of your government. We don't understand at all, and why did Yanukovic take the order to put you down first and then assign you? We think Janukovich is personally responsible. He is responsible for every action that takes place in the country. And who will be Prime Minister, few are interested. Out of respect for our country and for the people of Ukraine, the opposition will never support the government of the Party of Regions, which has been nominated by the President of the Party of Regions. We will not vote for this government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u334	Thank you. I'd like to ask you to speak to Klitschka Vitaly Volodymyrovich, Faction Impact. Behind him is Suffrich. He's handing over Kinahu. The word will be Kinahu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u335	Dear colleagues! I also want to continue to achieve the government that Arsenius Yatzenuk was talking about. I want to say that it concerns voting for the government, for the new government, for Mr. Azarov, to express his position clearly. And this decision was made by our entire faction very easily. Why? Because over the past three years, we have heard of the continuous improvement in the lives of Ukrainians. Surprisingly, this applies only to the multitudes of people who find themselves in power. We can look at the budget that was adopted here by the Supreme Council in the last 10 minutes. And in this budget, standards were adopted: salary increases by 13 dollars, pension by 10. [[This is the minimum wage and minimum pension]] We know that the next promotion is scheduled for December, and we know how food prices are now rising, for utilities, but wages, pensions and scholarships remain at the same level. Payments were reduced in this budget, which was accepted here, by one and a half billion dollars. I just want to say that 30 percent is done. Provided for people who are sick. One and a half million Ukrainians who suffer from such dangerous diseases as tuberculosis and hepatitis. I would also like to point out that nearly 2.5 billion dollars will be spent on the maintenance of Kabmin and the Supreme Council and the President. To this day, the authorities have not forgotten to finance the organs that provide normal life away from the people. Thus, 29 percent were raised to the Attorney General’s Office and 25 percent to the BSI. But we know that Ukraine has, unfortunately, been a country in recent years that is a leader in corruption, and this situation is getting worse year after year. Surprisingly, the government is starting to warm up and talk about the different directions of development in Ukraine. We will not allow the European development vector to change because one third of the Ukrainians support it. Two thirds of Ukrainians. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two thirds of Ukrainians support Ukraine’s development.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u336	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u337	In recent years, the government has shown that it is not a country government, it is a government of clans. For them, a budget is written, tenders are made. At this time, when there is a global financial crisis, there are people in Ukraine. Life is getting much worse. In Ukraine alone, there are twice as many official numbers, you know, twice as many billionaires. And that's what we're doing. Thank this government. That is why our faction will not vote for Mr. Azarov's candidacy today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u338	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of Deputy Kinah, faction of the Party of the Regions. After him is Mohnik, the "Freedom" union.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u339	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, I am sure, is not yielding to any level of patriotism to other parliaments, is considering the fundamental issue of giving consent to the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I am sure that we are all united in the will to build a modern - day competitive democratic state. And according to the world’s experience, in severe competition, which now covers severe competition for living space, for land, for clean air, in the 21st century, only the consolidated nations win. Unfortunately, we have had a bad experience in 2008-2009 when Ukrainians did not learn to work, but unfortunately, because of the opposition within the political system of power for 2008-2009, Ukraine lost 27 percent of industrial production, as in June 1941. What will we do with this bitter experience? Therefore, the distinguished national MPs, the Supreme Council as the supreme legislative body of the State, the Cabinet of Ministers as the supreme executive body of the State, all the political forces present in Parliament should feel the will and responsibility, unite efforts there, not against political competition, where these are strategically important issues of our country, its development worthy of a city in the world. Energy security – the most important issue, of course, policy must be geared towards Ukraine being an energy-efficient state, and we need to severely reduce external economic and political dependence, throughout the country, to create conditions for protection by modern methods of national economic and political interests, irrespective of the direction: West or East. I'm sure, and I'm addressing the venerable Vitaly Klitschka, and I'm reminding you that the Law on the Basic Principles of Ukraine's Internal and External Policy has been adopted in this room. It works today, and it clearly states that Ukraine's strategy is integration into European economic and political space. And I'm sure that everyone, Freedom, Strike, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the united opposition, the majorists, will do their utmost to sign a very important document: the Agreement on Associated Membership of Ukraine, the terms of free trade and the formation of modern European standards on Ukrainian land. We propose to support Mikola Janović Azarov's candidacy as Prime Minister of Ukraine. The situation requires pragmatic, technological action. We have no right to waste time. It's a faction of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u340	Thank you. I invite you to the words of Mohnik, Deputy Mohnik, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u341	Please pass the word to Sichu from "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u342	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u343	Alexander Sicheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u344	Pass it on, please. Simonenko will be invited to speak for him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u345	Alexander Sich, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, honourable guests, brothers and sisters, Ukrainians! The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union operates on an ideological basis: the ideology of Ukrainian nationalism. Its essence, and our task, the parliamentary faction, is to protect the interests of the Ukrainian nation. In doing so, we state that we respect all national and ethnic minorities in Ukraine. And the fact that this task is relevant in the seemingly national Ukrainian state is evidence of the high level of trust shown to us by the Ukrainians. And we're ready to do this by both hard-on and constructive policies. What we're ready to do is we've demonstrated in the local self-governance bodies, where we were in management positions. Mikola Janović represents the political power that is polar to us in the world’s view. The party of regions is a vivid anti - Ukrainian and pro - Russian force. All they do is build another Russian state on Ukrainian soil. We're not surprised, because just like their Communist satellites, they're brought up in the bosom of Russian culture and their spiritual homeland is Imperial Russia. The policy of the Party of the Regions is anti - Ukrainian, and this testifies to the adoption and introduction of new language legislation. This is evidenced by the cooling down of Ukrainian history from Ukrainian school textbooks. This is evidenced by the total Russian - speaking occupation of Ukrainian information space. I can call it a lot of examples, but the whole point of this is to put the whole Ukrainian state on the sidelines. The politics of this political force is antisocial. I'm not going to repeat the arguments that my colleague Arsenius Yatzenuk made, but I'm going to add. You sometimes point your fingers at local self - government in Western Ukraine. The state delegated them and should provide resources. Why is it that wages are not paid in full today? How much do you want to point at forerunners? In the city of Ivano-Frankowsk alone, today the debt to the budgeters is 40 million dollars. Today's closed treasury accounts and no payments are made. [[only in Ivano-Franco 14 million]] In short, the policy of the Party of Regions, represented by Mikola Janović Azarov, is anti-Ukrainian, anti-social, anti-democracy. We are not going to allow this policy to progress further in Ukraine. We have come to draw close to the time when the Prime Minister of Ukraine will become real according to the spirit and blood of the Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u346	The National Deputy of Ukraine Simonenko, Peter Mikolaiovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u347	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that it is the faction of the Company in its previous call to the Supreme Council that has proposed an anti-crisis program and anti-crisis drafts of laws that we believe should be based today on the content of the work of the Supreme Council. I would like to draw your attention to the principle of the model of economic and social development offered to the Ukrainian people. And this economic model has been confirmed for 20 years, and it has brought no benefit to the people of Ukraine. And what we've been forced to do for 20 years has destroyed Ukraine's economic potential. I would like to draw your attention to the very question that we are considering, which is the result of the electoral campaign. And the election campaign is about competing with the same programs and concrete proposals on how Ukraine will get out of the crisis. I'd like to remind you of who you spoke of during your struggles. Dear Mikolo Janovich, you promised in the election that the average wage in the highly strategic sectors would be 8,000 dollars a month. You promised that capital investment in regional infrastructure would only be 100 billion dollars next year. I'm not going to decrypt what capital investment is. Next. You promised to create a space-rocket complex called Cyclone-4, the Alcatavre Cosmodrome, AN-70, we'd build and develop in Ukraine, a multifunctional rocket complex called Sapsan, the construction of Corvette ships. [[Brazil]] You promised to build roads around Dnipropetrovsk and Sevastopol. Next. The total cost of construction was 227 billion dollars. You promised that the development of our coal industry would allow for up to 5 billion cubic meters of gas. By the way, I remind you that today there are 1.8 million tons of coal at the warehouses -- this is the work of miners that needs to be paid today. Next. You promised that you would be responsible for not paying the salary, you would be relieved of the position of the people. I would like to remind you that you said that we have an increasing domestic supply in the country, which is witnessing a steady increase in the purchasing power of citizens. I don't know where that came from, but you promised. You promised to keep prices, tariffs, national currency rates stable. You will create additional resources. You promised to build 100,000 apartments for our citizens every year. The average wage is going to be 4,000 dollars. You enter a new quality level, and every citizen gets an apartment. You have also promised to regulate and control, and there will be no rise in prices and tariffs for gas. You promised to overcome, by the way, the problems associated with the World Trade Organization. And I remind everyone, that's where they're sitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u348	Finish it. Give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u349	All voted in favour of Ukraine's accession to the WTO. Everyone just voted. You promised, Mikola Janović, that your government would certainly consider joining Ukraine in the Customs Union. And to the end. I'd like you to remember, Your Honor, those who, if you say so, take part in the election promised our citizens that all of this would be done by you, the Party of Regions, and you personally as the head of the government. But I want to conclude my statement to the voters: the situation in Ukraine today depends, not on the government manager, but on changing the political system today. Thus, a faction of Communists is sure to vote in order for you to fulfill your obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u350	Thank you, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament! One minute, I'll give you the can and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u351	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. And you, Comrade Simonenko, promised the citizens of Ukraine not to support the oligarchs. And millions of people for you You voted that you're cheating on them today because you're voting again for the government of the oligarchs who will rob people. You will receive your dividends in office, in the form of oatmeal, and you will continue to be parasitic about the feelings of the elderly. The commie's on the branch! The Communists are liars! And about Azarov. I have three questions for Azarov. First. Mikola Janović, how do you get a pension of 20,000 dollars a month when millions of Ukrainian citizens receive 800 dollars of pension? The second question. How can you live on a statewide basis when millions of Ukrainian families do not even have the opportunity to rent housing? And the third question. At 66 years of age, how can you work when millions of young boys and girls are unable to get a job, even with higher education and more than one? Answer these questions at least to the Ukrainian community if you do not want to answer the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u352	I'll tell you what, honourable deputies. Oleg, when you're that old, give yourself the answer! Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u353	Dear colleagues, Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'm not surprised at these statements just because, and it's clear to everyone that when I was working with the Timoshenko Government, this people's MP, we know what was going on there and what you were doing there. Therefore, all these 20 years, including you personally, have always voted in favour of repealing social support laws, repealing those laws that have decided to protect the country's economic potential. I therefore reiterate that the Company's faction will act as an independent political force with its programme and, of course, to closely monitor the fulfilment of all the promises made by other political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u354	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, honourable deputies! The time for discussion of the candidate is over. So let's move on to making a decision. I remind you that the decision to grant approval for the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine with an open name vote. I am putting to the vote who, in order to give the President-in-Office of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Azarov Mikola Janović, please vote. [[15:05:18]] For 252 Decision taken. Mikola Janović, we congratulate you and wish you success. The factions. Region Party - 208, Parenthood - 0, Vitalia Klicka – 0, Freedom – 0, Company – 32, non-fractional – 12. I signed it, Mikola Janovich. Please sit down. Let's get back to work. Let's keep going. Let's keep going. According to article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, refers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the Pozačrgov message on the interior. We have another very serious question. on Ukraine’s internal and external situation. Please turn it on. [[The voices from the hall. Ukraine is free! July is free!]] VESCRIPTION The address of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. "Dear compatriots! Dear National Deputies! Congratulations on the beginning of the work of the Supreme Council on the seventh call. Every new parliament is an important milestone in the history of Ukraine, the development of democracy and statehood. As President, I have always been focused on dialogue and the search for compromises that would benefit our country and the people of Ukraine. And today I am counting on the new Parliament to be set up for productive and consolidated legislative work as well. Ukraine has lived a tense and full - time life in 2012. Reforms in the economy and new social initiatives are now being implemented. Large-scale investment in domestic infrastructure development is provided and the Euro-2012 is well established. The Treaty on the Association and Establishment of a Free Trade Area with the European Union has been concluded. A new agreement on a free trade zone with the SND countries has entered into force. The Constitutional Assembly has begun its work, which has become the focus of scientists and the public on the constitutional renewal of the state. But despite the results, the situation in the country remains complex. Today, we are working under limited domestic resources and the severe pressure of a global crisis that is hurting the domestic economy. An extensive analysis of the socio-economic and political situation in Ukraine is presented in a printed version of the President's Address to the Supreme Council, proposed by the Ukrainian People's Deputies. Dear colleagues, I'm counting on us to continue to modernize the country together. We need to make the most of the potential of domestic industry and agriculture. We need to accelerate technological modernization. There is a need for profound changes in the security sector and a new impetus for the development of the domestic defence and industrial complex. We need to strengthen the internal market, overcome energy dependence, ensure the development of regions. Equally important is the construction of pragmatic Ukrainian-centric foreign policy. We're going to use all the possibilities of international cooperation that we have today. During the chairmanship of Ukraine in the OSCE, we should offer our vision of the development of the European security system. Ukraine is a unified link between Eurasian and European space. This is her historic mission on the continent. I believe that 2013 will be a year of all positive solutions to all issues with the European Union. At the same time, we will gradually join customs union rules because there is a huge market for Ukrainian goods. Let us do our utmost to ensure that Ukraine has a harmonious relationship not only in economic terms but also in the humanitarian, scientific, and social spheres. The main focus in internal politics is on ensuring systemic social justice policy. On this basis, social security reforms — pension systems, employment, education, and health care — will be continued. We will do all of this together with the public, with the unions, on the basis of an effective social partnership. People have to experience a real and positive result from our work together. That will be our response to the expectations of Ukrainian society. I am confident that 2013 and the coming years will be a time of new achievements and achievements. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! I suggest you shake each other's hands and get to work for the good of Ukraine! Elections in the back, serious exams ahead. So I suggest you take a step forward. I urge you to ensure that Parliament works effectively. I invite all parliamentary forces to participate in the work of the Reform Committee and the Constitutional Assembly, and I invite you to participate in the work of the executive branch. Our willingness to take these steps together depends on how the country lives tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-13-m0.u355	Ladies and gentlemen, there is an offer to be accepted. Please sit down. We have the last question, as we agreed to, of the Supreme Council Committee. There is a suggestion: Today, we accept only a list and a number of committees in the Supreme Council. And the objects of knowledge and the names when we work tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, all the factions are on Monday. Therefore, you will have to consider the Supreme Council’s decree on the list, the number of compositions, and the subject matter of knowledge. No, it's not. About the list and the number of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. May I put it to a vote? I would like to vote on the Supreme Council's ruling on this matter. Please vote. [[15:14:20]] For 238. Factions: Region Party - 201, Parenthood - 0, Vitaly Hit Call - 0, Freedom - 0, Company - 31, non-fractional - 6. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that today you and I have decided that the next plenary meeting will take place on December 18th at 10 a.m. I thank you all very much for your work and support. Thank you! I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed.
