ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:54]] There were 417 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today the birthday of the Jewish Paul Ivanovich, he has a Jubilee. Please welcome our colleague. As well as Koleschenka Vadim Vasilovich, who was also born on that day. Please, Yuri Klukkowski. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Ukrainian society suffered a heavy loss, died, passed away a well-known Ukrainian public figure, an active member of the 60s Movement, a famous Ukrainian poet, longtime head of the Union of Ukrainians, wife of one of the creators of the independence of Ukraine's National Deputy of Ukraine for the First and Third Call, Hero of Ukraine Viacheslav Crnovola. I would like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we honor her memory for a moment of silence. Athena Pashko, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please honor the memory of Athena Pasko for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 20 March 2012. Twenty-six questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, two laws and four decrees were passed, 11 bills were adopted on the basis of which one bill was returned to the committee for further consideration and six bills and one draft decree were rejected. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for the performances of the National Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board that have been signed up for the performances. Ryabek's National Deputy, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Ivan Kirilenko, please. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u4	Respectable compatriots! Yesterday, the Supreme Council, by a minimal majority, approved a statement-appealing the European Union, the content of which is essentially the only one: take us in with you and "no nails," we've been ready for a long time. A decision that could be a contribution to Ukraine was taken in haste: without a thorough discussion, without consideration by a professional committee, without the procedure necessary here for adoption as a basis, and then with amendments as a whole. As a result, the Ukrainian paradox: a document for which more than 400 votes could be collected, the opposition that fought day and night for European integration was not forced to vote. We could not support this subterranean morality when one is declared but the other is done. For Brussels, one policy, and for the EuroAzEs and the Customs Union, the other is diametrically opposite. We strongly condemn evil when, they say, "on the even," we throw ourselves into the arms of an older brother, and we love Europe on the odd. For us, double standards are totally unacceptable when you are spoken in a language for almost a year, doors for Ukraine to Europe, open to the European family, free trade area, please. It's a rescue for our vulnerable economy, a visa-free regime -- be that way. The only condition is to come to a new large family, to respect its standards of living, to respect Europe's age-old traditions, the rule of law, human freedom, respect for its dignity, and no political Inquisition. It does not take a week for another specific decision to be taken on the table of power, whether it be the European Parliament or the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe or the European Commission or the authoritative statements made by the world’s leading leaders. And last week, the approval of the highest institution, the European Court of Human Rights, appeared. For almost a year now, our ruling coalition has listened attentively, sometimes obediently sneezing, but acting on its own. And usually, contrary to what we're told. And you're naively hoping that after yesterday's statement, where it's definitely a "game in one gate," where there's no indication of the Ukrainian authorities' obligations. About the release of political prisoners of Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko, and many others. Where there is not a word about the rule of law, the prohibition of political repression and persecution, the real freedom of speech, which, after such a statement, Europe will humbly kneel. Get ready and get back, ladies and gentlemen! We demand to return immediately to yesterday's document, to vote on it, taking into account our completely considered proposals to support this decision in all its composition and only then to send it to European structures. Once again, the route to Omrian Europe begins, not with Kiev, but with Kharkiv, and the key to the window that has not yet been cut down lies in the Kachanov Colony. This has long been not only our enigma but the firm and firm will of the entire civilized world and of the Ukrainian people. It's time to listen, it's time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u5	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Next is Helen Shustik, instead of Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u6	Dear fellow citizens! The MP's Reform for the Future urges all of us to pay attention to the situation in the field of taxation. Just recently, by the end of 2010, the government had solemnly reported to the head of state and voters on the success of tax reform. In early March, however, the World Bank reported that Ukraine had set an absolute world record because Ukrainian business paid 135 taxes at different levels. In comparison, Romania took second place in this rating, where there are only 113 taxes, the third one is Jamaica, and 72 taxes. In Russia, entrepreneurs pay 11 taxes a year, in the United States 10. And for comparison, in France, China is only 7. This also coincides with the findings of an authoritative British magazine called The Economist. They point out that Ukraine has become the most repressive category in terms of tax rhetoric, the economy of the world, taking 163 seats in the economic freedom rating. The last 179 seats are in North Korea. But this is not even the case, for on March 6, the head of the National Communications and Information Management Commission, Peter Jacek, announced his intention to tax Skype users for free video communications and voice links on the Internet, for he said the program had turned into a billion-dollar asset and brought a lot of money. And why aren't we still taxing them? However, he did not even think that there were copyrights for the program, nor did he think that it was being used freely on the Internet. And trespassing on other people’s copyrights is the law’s persecution. Unfortunately, that's not the end of our tax itch. Recently, our fellow national MPs, I will not call them names, passed a bill to Parliament to tax childless citizens in our country from 15 percent to 17 percent. The need for this tax, as shown in the explanatory note, is due to declining birth rates. Dear colleagues, let's stop because this chaos will bring the state to ruin. We need to understand that the main point is not to tax our friends, our citizens with taxes, but to make tax legislation that would involve as many jobs as possible, it gave us as much opportunity as possible to freely organize its business projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u7	Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." The next will be Arsenius Yatzenuk instead of Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u8	Olena Shustik, "BUT is the Fatherland." Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, on March 15, this year the European Court of Human Rights ruled on the need for the treatment of Julia Timoshenko in a hospital medical facility outside the Kachanov Colony. On that same day, the European Court of Justice, in its official notice, obliged Ukraine, its government, to implement that decision. In accordance with the Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the European Court’s judgment is mandatory for the execution of Ukraine and must be implemented within a 10-day period. Thus, only four days were left for the execution of this decision in the Ukrainian authorities. I recall that for failure by officials to execute a decision by the European Court of Justice, part four of article 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine provides for a penalty of 3 to 8 years of imprisonment. On March 16, the State Penitentiary Service received a request from a respected European institution regarding the conditions of maintenance and medical care of Yulia Timoshenko. Ironically, on March 16th, the authorities presented to the Kachani colony a presentation for the media of the "potemkin village" with medical equipment borrowed from Kharkiv Hospitals, as if for the treatment of Julia Timoshenko in European conditions. Disgusting provocation, repeated forgery, and the lies of today’s authorities. On March 16th, eight National Deputies arrived at the Kachanov Colony from the "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood" – Sergey Shevchuk, Eugene Dobrjak, Viacheslav Pierrei, Antonina Bolura, Olena Bondarenko, Olena Šustik, Zoya Shishkina and Vladimir Filenko to exercise parliamentary control. In accordance with article 24 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, Ukrainian national deputies have the right without special permission to visit penal institutions. However, for two hours the people’s deputies were not allowed into the territory of the colony. The head of this institution hid and provided no explanation. It was only through the efforts of our colleagues in Parliament and the blockade of the Supreme Council’s rostrum that we were allowed to enter the territory of the colony. So it was consciously and gravely violated by the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. A similar situation took place on October 11, last year, when, according to the ruling of the People’s Deputies ’ Court, Yulia Timoshenko was not allowed to be sentenced to death. These are very dangerous precedents. The government successively destroys parliamentaryism and detracts from the status of the Ukrainian national MP. However, these actions of authority bear witness to only one thing: the authorities are deadlyly afraid of their only and powerful competitor — a delicate woman locked in the Kachanovka stone bag, Julius Timoshenko, which means that such authority is doomed to death. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u9	Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please, your performance. The next one will be Basil Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u10	Honorable Members of Parliament! Yesterday an organ called the Constitutional Court of Ukraine finally legitimized corruption in our country. It turns out that according to the Constitutional Court’s decision, today’s authority, which, as it were, fought corruption, has been deprived of the direct obligation to declare its income and expenditure. It is absolutely clear what this has to do with anything. This is due to the fact that before the 2012 parliamentary campaign, those representing the Party of Regions and Power do not want to declare the billions of dollars they have received in the last two years. And not just in the last two years, but in the last ten years, because in fact, the Party of Regions has been running the country for almost 10 years. All of this goes into one general concept: the legalization of corruption and corruption as the foundation of the state of politics of the incumbent president and of a well-established party. I want to go to the numbers. I would like to remind you that a decision has been made in the parliament walls to form a temporary commission of inquiry for Livela. This is the company that has smuggled hundreds of thousands of tons of products into Ukraine without paying taxes and has not paid a single penny into the State Budget. 11 billion dollars, 11 billion dollars of corruption, is hidden. Let's move on. It was this Parliament and the Party of Regions that decided to write down 24 billion dollars to private energy companies. The 24 billion that could have been directed at teachers and doctors who could have been committed to restoring social justice in the country, but it also went into private pockets. Next, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine is buying storm surpluses and putting in the pocket of today's Party of Regions another 3 billion dollars and, unfortunately, it's not over. Government purchases, tens of billions of dollars coming from taxpayers and from the private budget in the private pockets of those who today support the President and who today have parliamentary badges and party tickets for the Party of the Regions. Let's move on, this is the use of state budget funds for a variety of government programs that finance exclusively private companies owned by members of the Party of the Regions. I'm asking you to give three more minutes to the woodworker. In view of this, honourable colleagues, what is happening in the country and what the Constitutional Court of Ukraine decided yesterday to legitimize corruption is testimony from one authority to corruption. So she struggled with it. I call on the Ukrainian national MPs who represent the democratic opposition and who represent those people, those Ukrainians who want change, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u11	Finish up. Microphone, please. Don't yell, don't shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u12	Don't hide your income and expenses. I'm talking to my colleagues, we shouldn't be like him, we don't have anything to hide. Show declarations for 2011. We're stronger, we're smarter, and we're more honest than they are. As for the initiatives of the social president of Ukraine, unfortunately, it was the second week that the President of Ukraine promised to take social initiatives to parliament. Unfortunately, neither the President nor the Government did. But opposition did. As for the position of the President in increasing social initiatives, it is not surprising either. Look at the commission signed by President Janukovic. Turns out the basic social cost, you know when they want to do it? Since September 1, 2012. Make it two months before the election. They still think that Ukrainian voices can be bought for the 100 bracelets of the gift offered today by the Party of the Regions. The opposition passed a bill to restore social justice in the country. And we demand that this bill be considered immediately and simultaneously with the government position. The government is slowing down with higher social standards. I would like briefly to stop at the basic positions of the bill, which have been put forward by the opposition to the restoration of social justice. The first and most important is the minimum of living. The minimum of living in our country has not changed for 12 years. Twelve years! It turns out that the Ukrainian can only buy one pair of socks a year. Twelve years! There is a situation in which the Ukrainian is Jewish and survives on the social standards proposed by the authorities. So our first requirement is to look at the minimum of living and increase it by at least 30 percent. Secondly, I want to go back to the pension issue. This Parliamentary Hall voted in favour of the recalculation and modernisation of pensions. And this power, and this majority has canceled the fortieth amendment, which is now being referred to by President Janukovic. We're asking you to recalculate pensions, and as a result of your so-called retirement reform, where you've increased your retirement age by 10 percent, we've actually reduced your pensions, we want to restore justice. 334 bracelets for 10 million Ukrainian pensioners are a requirement of opposition. Third, we want to attach budget salaries and all social standards to the minimum cost of living and increase all social standards according to such a subsistence minimum. I'm just going to take a quick look at some numbers. We believe that the authorities should rate a surgeon of higher qualifications to raise from the pitiful 1,900 dollars up to.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u13	Yes, thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u14	We demand that the Social Justice Act be immediately considered in Parliament's walls.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u15	Basil. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Lesa the Sparrow passed on the right to speak, so six minutes was perfectly legal, two minutes was legal. Basil Blackney, faction of the People's Party. Then Volodymyr Stretovich will perform. Oleg Zarubinski? Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u16	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to address a question that's not in any way relevant to advocacy and advocacy, all the more in the opposite direction, to what was done when people were in power. I want to ask a question that should bother the whole country regardless of political sympathy, antipathy. The euro-2012 is to become a start, not a final chord for Ukraine's exit to the international arena as a tourist and recreational object, but will it? For the desire for quick profit does not leave many behind, to smite the bush without considering prospects or consequences. Hence, the average cost of living in a Kiev or a Levite hotel today is higher than in Copenhagen, Helsinki, Amsterdam. Take the prices in Euro hotels, what kind of football fans are they based on oil magnets? Even in the cheapest segment in churches during the Euro, the price will be about 60 percent higher than in Warsaw, can we create a tourist attraction, not Ukraine, but Poland? Perhaps the quality of our services in our hotels is so high that we want to pay more than the European price? Probably, but only for lovers of Soviet rarity, services, and equipment. Will European tourists travel to the East, Poland in 2013 or 2014? Will a tourist go to a country that he does not yet know about, except that the cost of living there is higher than that of his home? Are they going to invest in an economy where the main task of poor entrepreneurs is to take money out more quickly than to develop a business? Most surprising in this situation are those who talk about the absence of important influences on hotel business. I've talked, talked, and I've had enough of what we're going to do to them, but we have a market economy. But was it not for them that the State granted tax breaks by freeing the hotel from payment of a 10 - year income tax? Why did we do this? For tourists to go to Ukraine and after the football championship, or for hotel business to receive income from the state budget this summer? And, first of all, shouldn't the hotel be able to do whatever it takes to get someone else to pay the state penalty for them? Because in the power of the State to set a price limit for each hotel room, depending on the starry hotel, be sure to set a price limit for Euro time. It's not an invasion of the market, because stupid gain and the market are different things. State regulation should be in the area where it, the State, benefits. And if anyone does not like it, let him give up his tax vacation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u17	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u18	The time has come to demand that hotel owners immediately lower speculative, absurd, insolent, stupid prices to adequate ones. Otherwise, you should take the initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u19	Thank you. That's a very important moment to talk first. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u20	It is worth canceling their exemption from payment of income tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u21	Thank you. Stratovic Volodymyr, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Husarov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u22	Volodymyr Stretovic. A Christian-Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, your honor, I was forced to come to this rostrum by yesterday’s decision of the Constitutional Court. In Ukraine it's the 21st year, the Constitutional Court already lives in its 16th year. It seemed necessary to grow older and older, but the final decisions of the sole body of constitutional jurisdiction in Ukraine were not only alert to the public of the legal population but also to lawyers of all levels. I want to say that the Constitutional Court's orders have been made before, for example, what is worth deciding on President Leonid Kuchma's first and second terms. But what's been going on lately is just devaluation and destruction of this body of constitutional authority. Judge yourself, Roman law, and third - grade students know that the court never makes the law. According to the law, the Constitutional Court should only interpret the law, but our Constitutional Court, the very Constitutional Court in the world, somehow out of the glove yesterday, as a wizard, has taken the six-month rule. Why six months? Because it will be September 20 of this year, and candidates in one-maned districts will register no later than August 25. This means that it is not possible or necessary to make a declaration about its assets, that it will not be possible or necessary to acquire it this year, and that the electorate will not know in fact what is behind the wealth of each candidate in the national parliament. The other one. Article 2 of the Constitutional Court Act. Article 147 of the Constitution states that the Constitutional Court only interprets and cannot in any way violate this norm. Thus, the Constitutional Court has violated the requirements of the law and the Constitution, but there is no trial of a judge in our state. However, I want to remind them, I hope they are now hearing that in the history, the new history of many countries, there are very frequent cases where criminal prosecutions of Constitutional Court judges begin for misjudged, misjudged decisions, and such facts are well known. And the last two. I want to say that once, when shevchenko was in exile, he said that "bad, fear is bad, in this desert they're gone, and worse in Ukraine they're crying and they're silent." We are not silent to draw attention to and say that the Constitutional Court, instead of the watchdog of democracy, has turned into a suture that is conspiring to the present authority to commit its crimes in our territory. Yet, as the Scriptures say, "Everything has its beginning and everything has its end." I think the end of such activity is near. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u23	National deputy Sergei Gusarov. Alexander Kuzmuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be the Extreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Unquestionably, the world still respects the strong. It is in this list of reforms initiated by President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine that are one of the main reforms of the Armed Forces. Its main orientations, tasks, and terms are clearly defined as the basis for responsible government documents. Among the priorities of military reform are the preservation and strengthening of human resources. Modern weapons and high technology will be useless without high - tech professionals. Two years ago, this was not understood; it was limited to proclaiming declarations and empty promises. State defence programs, including in terms of solving the social problems of military personnel, have failed. This attitude toward the problems of the army has led to a fall in the prestige of military service and, as a result, to an increase in the early release of officers. Today, this trend has been halted. A number of important measures have already been taken to overcome negative events just this year, under the direction of the High Commander. Implemented despite acute problems in other spheres of State activity. Yes, nearly three times, compared to the previous year, housing financing has increased, with a 2.5 - fold increase in remuneration for Ukrainian peacekeepers. These are just the first steps. In general, the President has identified a wide range of well-known tasks, including an average increase of 55 per cent of military salaries this year. Due attention is paid to improving the welfare of military pensioners. By the end of the year, the government has to ensure a phased recalculation of their pensions, which have remained unchanged since 2008. It is not the granting of benefits but the duty of the State to its citizens. It is also a demonstration of the prestige of military service and an example of today’s generation of military personnel. Dear colleagues, I sincerely hope that the promotion of the President’s initiatives to raise the social standards of military personnel, military pensioners, will be a unifying factor for all parliamentary factions. Ukraine has one thing and one thing we care about is its Armed Forces, the basis for the defense of the state, as a joint responsibility. We don't lose our efforts at fruitless contentions -- the army and the fleet need immediate help, and we have to provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u25	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u26	The President's steps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u27	The word is Antonin Bolour, the faction "BUT is the Fatherland". My colleague Krany gave me the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u28	Dear compatriots, yesterday, I heard a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the signing of the gas agreements between the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and the RAO "Gazprom" on the existence of signs of treason. After a 7-year sentence for Julia Timoshenko for saving Ukraine and Europe from the freeze, there were now those who wanted to impose on her a national betrayal, as if when negotiating gas contracts between NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and Gazprom in January 2009 in Timoshenko had a personal dependence and interest, and that had signs of State betrayal. And addiction and interest are expressed in what seems to have hidden from society and power the fact that there is a debt owed by its private companies to the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation. Yes, there is a debt owed to the Russian Federation Ministry of Defence by the Private Stock Exchange Association of the PFC EECU. This is the remainder of the Russian Federation Department of Defense's undelivered goods and materials product in accordance with existing contracts. And the disadvantages remained because, following the direction of the then President of Ukraine Kuchma regarding the destruction of such a structure as EESU, whose president at the time was Timoshenko, hundreds of tests were organized by all existing monitoring and force structures in Ukraine. All of this because Julia Timoshenko, who became Ukraine's national deputy, began actively criticizing ex-President Kuchma of January 1, 1997, and soon began the Kuchma-free Ukraine movement in general. When no violations and abuses were established, a number of general treaties were found invalid through Kuchma - run courts. This made it possible to recognize all that was done under contracts that were illegal and to count the cosmic size of fines and pennies. After that, all the EES bank accounts, the assets arrested, both the EESU and the debt owed to the partners before EESU, were blocked. External economic activity of EEUS was banned. The author and follower of Kuchma’s instructions was the State Tax Administration. This is the reason why the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation has not lost its material value. But this is a private, private, EESU problem. And that was never the problem of the state. Never did the debt owed to the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation have any bearing on the money held, the State’s obligations. So what's Julia Volodymyrna's suspicion about hiding? What's he hiding from, who's he hiding from? That's what I'm talking
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u29	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u30	It is such an ancient, painful story and is not only known in Ukraine. Don't believe this piece, this so-called investigation. All of this is a filthy, disgusting, and sinful lie.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u31	Thank you. Last performance, Olena Bondarenko. The right to speak is given by a colleague of Yuri Odarchenko, "BUT is "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u32	Honorable colleagues, respected Ukrainians, are consumed by the tsunami, its name violence, first of all, violence against women. On March 8th, in Santa Claus, three bastards raped, strangled and set fire to 18-year-old Oksana Makar. Two out of three criminals, according to the media, have been released by young regionals to sign up for nonrefoulement and only human protests have forced them to be detained. At the same time with Oksana Makar, she was sent to the same Mikolai hospital in a coma with severe cranial trauma and numerous injuries by 18-year-old Alexander Popova. By March 15, no information had been received on this crime by law enforcement officials. A week later, in Simferopol, she was brutally tortured and co-ordinated by 25-year-old Oksana Sorokopudov. The girl died without coming to her senses. Not long ago in Lugansk, the local mayor in front of many witnesses beat Maria Korsunova, resulting in cranial trauma. During each year, more than a thousand women and girls die as a result of violence in Ukraine. Today a girl or a woman has more chance of dying as a result of violence than cancer, malaria, traffic and military action together. Violence against women without exaggeration has become a major national disaster. What is the reason? First of all, in impunity. The rulers, their children, and their relatives are absolutely convinced of their impunity and set a terrible example for society. The test of impunity was the case of Julia Timoshenko, who was not only unlawfully and unjustifiably convicted, but also methodically, sadistic, purposeful day after day being abused as a man and as a woman. So is it surprising on this background when Nardep, a region of Melnik, uses harsh physical force to throw Deputy Irina Heratchenko out of the constituency? More than 100,000 women turn to the police each year for violence in the family — not more than 10 percent of all cases. The government gives disgraceful examples of disrespect for a woman. Once and for all, there are claims made by high - ranking men about a woman as a creature, destroying her as a man. The contempt and contempt of power towards women is a sign of their contempt and contempt for Ukraine. What should we do about it? First. The authorities must immediately implement Eurosud’s decision on the treatment of Timoshenko in a medical facility outside the penitentiary system. The second is to stop being bullied by the leader of the opposition is the demand of all decent people. Ukraine should immediately ratify the Convention on the Prevention and Opposition of Domestic Violence. Otherwise, it must be admitted that the authorities deliberately cultivate this violence. And the last. In future elections, Ukrainian society is to give a concerted measure of power to the country’s cult of violence, injustice, fear, and infidelity. Otherwise, everyone and everyone can be thrown for play, tortured, killed, disappeared without news.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations that need to be responded to, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate addresses and assignments and letters. Dear National Deputies! Let us take a look at the issues set out in the March 21st schedule. We would now like to consider or consider a draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the disappearance of funds for the construction of the Children's Hospital of the Future and other violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine, Yashchenko W.A. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, despite the insistence on this issue, I have received a request from the initiator of the draft decision, Kiril Kulikov, requesting a postponement of the matter in view of his inability to report under objective circumstances. At the same time. Honorary colleagues also asked the committee to postpone consideration of the draft decree in view of the fact that the MPs were rotating their representatives, who were proposed to be part of this Temporary Inquiry Commission. So I'm going to put a motion for postponement to the vote. If not, no. Then we'll discuss the matter essentially. Is the offer understood? I'm voting on the proposal of the author of the draft regulation and the profile committee to move the matter forward. [[Registration number 9365]] [[10:39:42]] For 235 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions? Please. Region Party - 184, "BUT – "Fathership" – one, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 7, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 4. Dear colleagues, we need to consider a number of drafts for their inclusion in the agenda. Let's work it out this way. If the initiator insists, we are considering a brief procedure for inclusion in the agenda. If there are no warnings, we will immediately put to the vote in order to save time. No warning? The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for inclusion in the agenda is therefore being announced for consideration. [[on bringing into line the norms of various articles relating to budgetary discipline]] Shall we discuss this, Yuri Hanusztak? No, the author does not insist. I therefore put to the vote a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[on bringing into line the norms of various articles relating to budgetary discipline]] Registration number 9796. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:41:25]] For 132 The offer is not supported. Please, Yuri Hanushtak, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u34	Gentlemen, this is purely a technical document. But I can see that most people don't want to look at any document that improves budgetary discipline and budget code in the country. They're just afraid to show that they are, that the government can't pass these bills. Because he's just a professional incompetent. I'm still telling you that when we come to power, all the bills that you're rejecting, which you don't even want to consider and put into the agenda, they're going to be introduced and voted. And because, as they say, it's a shame that you don't even want to hear what the essence of this project is. Even put it in the agenda. Although it's a project from the opposition, it should be turned on by a machine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u35	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we now need to consider the proposal to include in the agenda the draft law amending the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Code of Budgets for the determination of the total amount of funds to be transferred into the local budgets. Registration number 9798. Yuri Ivanovich, will you speak on this matter? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u36	Since I see that most people are not in the mood to include anything in the day-to-day order of factions, then I want to say to the electorate, not the majority, the essence of this project. This is a project that stabilizes local budget expenditures, this is a project that's on the watch of local budgets that determines the total amount that is taken before the transfer is calculated. Not every year is added to local budgets, and then heroically most at the end of the year shows it's very good, and 1-2 billion adds at least to cover the salary. To show the political position: see how good we are. In fact, this bill -- it's purely mathematical calculations, which should be sufficient for local budgets to be balanced so there's no manipulation -- many, few, local budgets say we're never enough, and the government always says: "We gave it to you, and don't deny it to yourself." In fact, it's a very clear calculation. They come out of two factors. The first is that the average wages paid by local authorities are average in Ukraine, according to the Education Laws, the Health Act. And the second position is called "budget quality" at least. A maximum of 50 per cent by economic classification should be paid. If this is understood, it is understood that just to depreciate the core funds, it takes 10 percent, just to make the drugs 10 percent, it's 19 percent. So it's going to be 100 percent, and only 4 percent go to office equipment. Just count all these things and vote in favour now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u37	Thank you. Valérie Baranov, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs on this project, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u38	Deputies! The Budget Committee has not yet considered this bill; it will be considered today at the next meeting of our committee. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council notes that the introduction of such a calculation will not solve the problem of defining clear options for expenditure to ensure delegated powers and believes that the legislative proposals outlined will probably be agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers. And that would be, let me say, a question raised is very important and very necessary. But we need to solve it together, and the budget committee plans to hold a conference next month on this subject, where, together with the government, we will look for ways to solve this very important problem to local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u39	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u40	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, when it comes to the principles of local budgeting, at the central level, we need to understand that today's authorities have concentrated all powers to manage public money, i.e. Ukraine's budget, only in the hands of the entire government, the single-party government, the Party of Regions. And when any document is submitted to the Supreme Council today, it's only with the attachment to the hand of one waver who stands here and shows how to vote. Any analysis, any study of this document, and all the more revisions are not included in the Budget Code or in the last practice. I want to tell you that the vast majority of issues are resolved in government, resolved, and lobbyed, and tied to individuals. Government money varies in their own pockets because of projects called social sometimes either energy or some other. So today’s authorities have made the local budgets run out of nothing. The point is that the proportion of government budgets is such that, year after year, the last two years, the funding of local budgets will decline dramatically. So if we're heard by peasants, small towns and towns, only Julia Timoshenko suggested that 12.5,000 local budgets should be shaped according to the principles of a known understandable formula, where there's no manipulation, there's no way to create anything there that's not what you need to do. Now, these budgets are actually broken, there's nothing to fund the work of teachers, doctors, and now they're coming out with social initiatives. Such volunteers, who make social initiatives that are not budgeted, want only before the election to approve the electorate, to buy them with these taxes and to forget them again, as they have forgotten before, as all the promises of President Yanukovic's election have been forgotten, so it will be forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u41	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution of Ukraine guarantees local self - government. The Constitution also guarantees that the funds are sufficient. But it's practically nothing. In order to ensure real independence in the design and use of budgets, local budgets need to have clear macroparameters of expenditure to finance the powers delegated to them by the State. This will organize interstate relations between the state and local self-government, and it will stimulate, and it will form a financial basis of independence for local budgets. As a result, this bill, which was proposed by national deputy Yuri Hanuschuk, is extremely necessary, you will accept it, you will not accept it, you will have to listen to it, you have to think about it. Because he's offering the formula. In article 3.4 of Chapter VI of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Budget Code of Ukraine, he proposes a serious formula that provides for the total amount of expenditure that is included, a country-by-country pay fund, the ratio of the average wages of workers financed from local budgets to the average wage to the country as a whole. And this formula has to work. If it's a little bit off, let's fix it. But the issues that are not being resolved today are the methodology for determining the total amount of funding available for funding, so far there are no local budgets. But the Financial Code, the Budget Code, is our main financial document, provides that there should be budgetary standards for budgetary security, and they should be justified. That is why I strongly urge that we vote and put the matter in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine for the determination of the total amount of funds to be charged before the calculation of transfers to local budgets. [[9798 Registration Number]] [[10:51:35]] For 172 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The region's parties are 0, "BUT" is 91, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 34, the communists are 24, the People's Party is 0, "Reforms for the Future" is 18, the non-factional is 5. It is announced for consideration of the inclusion of the day-to-day draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of Montenegro’s Urban Head. Hennady Hennadiovich Moskal, please. Then from the committee, who will be speaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u44	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Residents of the City of Chernivci! It's been over a year since the Party of the Regions took down the city's head, along with the cartridges. And as far as the city head's election is concerned, it's blocked because there's no worthy candidate in the ruling party, its rating hasn't grown and it'll never grow. So, Your Honor, through the trial, we had to hold an election that was gone for a year, the head of the Czernieweck District Council. Today, the city’s head of the city of Novonistrovska is missing, and there are now three councillors from the region of Cherniewec. You actually took power and brought it to anarchy in Cherniewec. So I urge you and all the national MPs to vote in favour of this bill to include it, in favour of the decree to include it in the agenda. Otherwise, there can be no injustice for so long. You want to draw this to an election so that your people who have been temporarily performing their duties will just execute the administrative resource in the elections to the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u45	Yes, who will speak from the committee? Please, Sergey Upper.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The committee at its meeting on March 14 discussed the draft Order for the Assignment of Elections of the City Head of the Chernivites. The Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in connection with local authorities and local authorities, informed the committee that, unfortunately, on March 14, at the Wynnicki Administrative Court of Appeal and the Chevchenk District Court of Chernivci, the indictment of the Fedoruk City Head of the Fedoruk City Council for the annulment and annulment of the decisions of the authorities, renewal and payment of forced walks, etc. So if you're saying that, I'm sorry, if you're saying that these lawsuits are off, then there should be some help on the committee, there was no help on March 14th. So the committee decided, well, not to make a decision, but to consider that once the matter of lawsuits has been removed, the committee is ready to support the inclusion of this decision in the agenda. What's more, the distinguished national MPs, the honorable Vladimir Mikhailovich, and you know that the question of the appointment of out-of-court elections is always in order of the day. And when there is no legal basis for not accepting it, the committee brings it up for consideration. So I think if today's administration asks a question and we're on the committee today to consider some other questions, we can take your information on the fact that there's no legal basis not to discuss the issue, then tomorrow, Thursday, we can look at it in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, for this matter. There is the position of the author, there is the position of the committee. I'm just saying, that's how you feel about it. Please sign in. Yes, the names of the national deputies. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ruslan Knazevich, please. Next is Vladimir Dmitrovitch speaking, Bondarenko, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u48	Dear Head, your esteemed colleagues, the question is not for formal reasons: there is reason to believe that there is a reason. This is about the fact that the Supreme Council, as a constitutional body, will continue to abuse its constitutional right to appoint out-of-court elections as the only authorized institution in the state for such an act. Or will it continue to close her eyes that the rights to self-government of the city of the district center, one of our leading, let's say, perpisms on the borders with the European Union, are being denied. Where, by the way, extremely integrated relationships with the European Union and this is a "good" example of how we have a Charter of Local Self-Government, which is so often mentioned here. Dear colleagues, a very clear manipulation of our right means that we have to get rid of this right, we have to hand it over to other authorities, because we don't want to carry out the responsibilities that we're taking out with the pain that we're fighting for. On the other hand, you'll excuse me, manipulation, I think it's happening, and here we are in the session room in the walls of Parliament. Look, the author made a draft decision, exercised his right to legislative initiative on February 9, this year. For 60 days, according to the law, it is appropriate to vote and start a campaign. This decision is made today in the hall, when it takes a month and a half, a month before the election, so that this decision cannot be formally voted out now, since the 29th of April is no longer subject to the law. This means that the mechanisms of manipulation are also being used to make it impossible for the Supreme Council to exercise its right in this way. Honorable colleagues, we do not want to exercise our authority, or we give these powers or we let ourselves go. Why Parliament if it does not allow people to exercise their right? Thank you. I'm sorry, but it's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u49	Mikola Tomenko of the "BUT – "The Fatherland" faction will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, this is a sad "black and Montenegrin" history of contempt for local self-government would have had to be arranged and corrected by the Ukrainian Parliament. Because not only the city of Chernivci, an area where there is no district council head, but also the Kyyans, where we daily observe the fate and family of the city’s head, remains without a system of local self - government. We've already addressed the history of the Blacks. I remember Arsenius Yatzenuk’s determination. And unfortunately, there was no understanding of what needed to be restored to local self - government in Cherniv. It seems that the team, the professional team, is a strong, stable team that's in power that we've heard about during the election campaign, just physically there are no people who can win elections to local self-government. If there's no people, there's a second-year fight going on, which is going to be from the Party of Regions as the head of the Chernobyl District Council, it's not going to be chosen. If there is no man who can win in the Black people on a city's head, he's not elected. If it is not certain that the Party of Regions will win in Kiev, no elections will be scheduled. The Kiev Circus has come so far that no one is surprised that there is a discussion between the party members on the newspapers. The Party, the Party of the Regions, say: "We think we can make the election in the summer?" And Popov says, "Oh, no, well, I'm busy in the summer, so why don't we do it in the fall?" And that's how you talk. I have a question, and the Constitution, and the law, and the territorial community? What do you do at the party office when you hold elections in Kiev? We heard in Kiev that the funds of Chernevski had been stolen for billions, Popov turned to the General Prosecutor’s Office, and every day the united team of Popov and Chernewicki were said to be working together, soul in soul and dollar in hand. And they work together and they don't know grief. Therefore, the issue of both the Montenegrins and the Montenegrins must be immediately included today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u51	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u52	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, it's nice to see a man's dignity regardless of the party ticket. When a person has a conscience and cannot lie. He was the head of the subcommittee from BUYT. I understand that the sense of party solidarity obliged him to play that nonsense that was imposed. But as a decent person, he told the truth that we cannot be considered today. We support you. Thank you for having people like that. And most of them, including in the BUILD. Now there's a few points. This is the first one. They say it'll be chaos, there won't be chaos. There's a very strong governor. Last week, the head of the Regional Council was elected from the Party of the Regions. It'll be okay in the region, don't worry. Now the third one. We're all with you, and here's the fiery leader of one of the fronts, and he said, "We need to raise the social agenda." Money is needed to implement the social program, and money needs to be made in cash. Yesterday the microphone broke. Do you think anyone paid back for the microphone? No one's returned the money. And the same money for the microphone was available to a cleaning lady who was cleaning up for you as a prize. There's not enough conscience, there's not enough money to pay back. Second moment. Why waste twice? There are journalists who support us as well. Why waste twice? For the first time, if the elections were to take place in October, parliamentary elections could be held in October and elections could be chosen in the city. You're gonna have to do it one time. And an extra penny saved for social needs, for urban improvement, for disabled people, for pensioners, for Afghans, for black people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, we are done. Please, Jacinyuk, the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to support my colleague, Nicholas Tomenck, about the fact that the Party of Regions has just taken power, and it's just afraid of people. She fears elections, and she is well aware that she will lose the right choices in all areas. I'll remind you that President Yanukovic, when he went to the presidential elections, promised power to the communities. It turns out the whole community is in the Regional Party office. That is why we insist that in the city of Kiev, in the city of Chernivka, and in all other cities, where the Party of Regions, through a pool of voices and intimidation, take down the mayors so that the elections are announced. And as for the last statement on money, I'm going to give you a very simple recipe where to take the social spending money that President Janukovic has promised, but it's not going to do. You steal less and then you can finance pensions, wages and all the social standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. We obviously have to make a decision here, I mean, first on the committee level. Or make a decision if, under different circumstances, the head of the village council, the city, takes office, or holds the secretary for the next election. If not, if the law is in force, the Supreme Council should immediately announce the election. And if the matter is being considered in a court of law, then the court has to submit a written report to the committee that the matter is being considered in this case, please keep that in mind when making a decision. And we shouldn't follow court documents, court notices. So I'd like the committee to work on this. The elections must be conducted in accordance with the Constitution and the Law of Ukraine. Because we have this position: when we win our candidate, then we report successfully that we have won; when we see that there is no candidate for this election, we say there is someone to work there. Let us obey the law not to discredit the country. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day-to-day project the Order on the Assignment of the Extraordinary Elections of the Montenegrin City Head. I'll remind you that the committee is proposing to postpone the trial. Please, with this in mind, make a decision. [[11:06:43]] For 132 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 90, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 39, communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code. [[on the protection of the right of convicted persons to medical care and worship]] [[Registration number 10176]] We need to look at it for inclusion in the agenda. The reporter is Sergey Mishchenko. Please. There's no reporter. The committee is chaired by the Committee of Sweden, Victor Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u56	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to inform you that there were almost 150,000 people in Ukraine on January 1, 2012. Of these, about 87,000 are those who needed medical attention. Nearly 900 people died without waiting to be cured or released from their places of deprivation. The bill proposed by Mishchenko’s national deputy is intended to ensure that those in prison who are deprived of their liberty are adequately provided with medical care. The relevant amendments are proposed to the Criminal Enforcement Code, according to which persons in prison should receive medical assistance at the level that determines the basics of health legislation. As for religion, fellow believers, you know, we've had a big meeting on the committee with representatives of religions, of all religions that are in Ukraine, and all in one voice say that the work of the Church at places of will is extremely positive for the re-education of those who are serving sentences. In this regard, it seems to me that a perfectly correct proposal is the legislative initiative of the national MP, who proposes in the prescribed code to introduce a position that guarantees each person, regardless of which religion he adheres to, to freely carry out his religious rites. I propose, my fellow Members, and I ask you to support the proposal to include the bill in the agenda. I'm sure the committee at today's meeting supports this bill, because it's specifically aimed at humanizing from.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u57	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u58	to humanize the punishment of those in prison and the enjoyment and guarantee of their right to perform religious rites. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u59	Yes. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Please sign up. Volodymyr Bondarenko, "UT" faction, "Fatherhood." Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u60	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Anyone who is familiar with the situation in the penitentiary system in one way or another today is impressed by those health - care indicators in a system that is a reality. Thousands of people suffer from tuberculosis. Recently, these natural rebellions arose in several colonies as people cut their veins, requiring the separation of people with open TB and those who still have the opportunity to get out of these places of imprisonment with the remains, although health. People die, people just infect each other free or free. And this system, which is today, is backed by power. It's not even the system that was in Soviet times when people came out healthy, then became presidents, that's all. This now predestines anyone who goes to prison, in fact, to death. So do not play with it. It is the sacred debt of living free people to those who are slaves.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u61	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" has decided to vote freely on this issue, but I'll say it from myself, Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Kaplienka. I'm going to support this bill because I'm an Orthodox person and I can't afford to put an obstacle in the legislative field for any Christian to get help from a minister. I would like to remind you that every person who lives not only in this State but also in the whole world has the right to come to the Lord God and to the Savior of our Jesus Christ. There is even a prayer that says, "Lord, give me before the end of repentance." And so the mystery of confession and communion, in my opinion, is the first thing people should get, no matter where they are. That is why I am voting in favour of this bill with two hands as a citizen of Ukraine. I'll even vote for him if he's put in all of it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u63	Vladimir Moisik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u64	Vladimir Moysik, Party for Ukraine. Please give Dr. Carpuk Volodymyr a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u65	Vladimir Karpuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u66	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". We support the inclusion in the agenda of these bills and the adoption of these bills, in particular the amendments to articles 8 and 111 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. As a doctor, I know a lot of cases where people were killed and when they were brought in, practically, hopelessly from the penal facility just because they weren't given qualified medical care at the time. The practice shows that doctors who work in the penitentiary service are often more executioners than doctors. It's sad to say, but I want to remind them of a famous statement by a doctor who worked his entire life in the prisons of Russia, Fedor Gaaz: "Hurry to do good." That's because low qualifications and timeless help when they go to the treatment by following instructions from the head of the correctional colony rather than to perform Hippocratic oaths, this leads to such fatal consequences. 87,000 sick people, 900 people who die. I was once in prison, on a sort of excursion to Drogobich, and I saw that there was a separation for, practically, terminally ill people who didn't get the treatment right, although the funds were allocated for the purchase of drugs and equipment that were significant, which was practically uncontrollable. And even these approaches, which have become a total witness for all of Europe, for all of the world, the fact that treatment is even unskilled or underqualified to Julia Timoshenko also shows that those in correctional colonies should have the right to choose a doctor and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u67	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u68	And they're entitled to a doctor's call to a consultation that's outside the correctional colony. And I need this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine. [[on the protection of the right of convicted persons to medical care and worship]] Registration number 10176. Please vote. [[11:15:33]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 96, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 37, Communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 9, non-fractional – 5. It is announced for consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the decree marking the 120th anniversary of the birth of Patriarch Joseph the Blind. [[of Joseph Kobernick-Dickowski]] Registration number 10002. Please, the chairman of the Committee, Boris Tarasyuk. Boris Ivanovich, are you going to talk about this? Let's have the procedure now. And then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! Your point is to make two decisions regarding the great articles of Ukrainian history: the Patriarch Joseph Blind and the Metropolitan Ilaryon. Both contributed enormously to the development of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. They contributed greatly to the approval of the Ukrainian spirit in the development of Ukrainian history and religion. I'm asking you to support both of these bills, put them in the agenda. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality supports these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u71	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the committee, please. So let's do both of these projects clearly, right? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, our constituents! Indeed, we will need to consider a large number of regulations today. It's a little bit of a cartoon, of course, that any decisions are thrown down today on the day of the opposition instead of, let's say, other laws that are, but it's already given. I would suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we pass quickly and informally at the same time, because these are decisions, this is the document of the Supreme Council that she accepts. That's why I would suggest, first of all, that everyone vote, consider them as a short program and maybe shorten, let's say, give me the opportunity as the head of the committee not every time after the decision, but also after that, when the authors make a brief report on one or the other. And then, let's say I could just from the committee just, let's say, give me seven, eight, nine, ten minutes to draw a conclusion from the committee at once, and we'll save a lot of time, and I think we'll find consensus on that. These two decisions regarding Joseph the Blind must be made. This is a huge Ukrainian sufferer, in fact this is our heavy blood, forgive me, the history of the 20th century has affected this man. And what he was finally waiting for and declaring the independence of the Ukrainian state is really symbolic, and the restoration of the Greek-Catholic Church is very and very symbolic. Similarly, Ilario Ogienko, a prominent scientist, a linguist, a priest, a Ukrainian patriot who also gave up his life in the defense of Ukraine. I am convinced that you and I, their children there, or grandchildren, are simply obliged for these two giants, the Ukrainian spirit to vote and support these two decrees today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! Then, if anyone insists. No one insists on speaking for two, one minute, two draft rulings, the author reported, and the committee head spoke: 10002, 10003. Just a minute. No one insists on the performance? No, it's not. That's why I'm betting on inclusion, but I'm going to make a separate ruling. I'm betting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the 120th anniversary decree of Patriarch Joseph the Blind [[of Joseph Kobernick-Dickowski]] [[Registration number 10002.]] [[11:20:02]] For 371 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 130th anniversary of the birth of Metropolitan Ilario. [[John Ivanovich Fire]] [[Registration number 10003]] Please vote. [[11:20:36]] For-154 The decision was not made. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft decree marking the 75th anniversary of the Great Terror -- the massive political repression of 1937-1938. [[Registration number 10026]] Paul Mikhailovich Movchan, please. And let's say maybe the second ruling right now about Hotkevitch, you're the author of two decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You do not need to be told that in the past our people had tragic and extraordinary pages and extremely tragic events. To bypass them is to keep quiet about what happened to the Ukrainian nation in the 20th century when it was actually headless. When the whole Ukrainian elite was shot, expelled, and actually started growing, they say, a new generation, a new generation, a new, dedicated, to other ideologies of the whole community, which actually formed the Soviet intelligence. I don't need to tell you how it was and how many people were shot and killed. We need to go straight to Russia, either to Solovka, or to the Sandarms, and see those memorial signs that remain only from that tragic past. And that's why the 75th anniversary, which today is not just a topic for historians, for all of us, for the entire Ukrainian nation, to remind us that it can't be kept quiet. This tragedy is that from the director of Kurbas, whom we have endorsed, the Supreme Council will thank you all, the deputies who voted in favour of the decree to celebrate Les Kurbass, who passed, in January, his date, to Mikola Kulish, to all of those, Miroslav Irchana, who in fact we have supported collectively already the Supreme Council individually. Now it's about that massive action involving 117 people, or 1117, if you'll excuse me, who were shot at the same time in Sandarmos. [[It's under Leningrad.]] I can only call you historian and academics of Matthew Yavorsky, Professor Volodymyr Chekhovsky, Sergey Gruszewski, Stephen Rudnick, Mikli Pavlushkov, Vasil Volkov, Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u75	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u76	I urge everyone to include this in order to give proper respect not only to the names I have mentioned but to all those who were shot at that time and whose name only later, through rehabilitation processes, were returned to the history of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u77	Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u78	Dear MPs, dear voters! Indeed, the 20th century was so heavy a bloodthirsty one in many peoples of the Soviet Union, especially Ukraine. And of course, after 1937, after the beginning of the harshest repressions that were, the whole flower of Ukrainian intelligence was virtually destroyed, all that patriotic, highly educated, spiritual stuff that was in Ukraine. In particular, after the murder of Kirov, when Stalin issues, in fact, he initiates a special ritual within 10 days to investigate and immediately after the judgment of the court, on this very day, execute the judgments of these courts, which we know with you. Because of this, I am sure that a nation with a memory that has a conscience capable of looking back and honoring those who have not been respected for many years who have been shot and in the same Sandromoch and who have not confessed before their death and where they are buried is unknown. We Ukrainians have to do this. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm just asking you to pay attention, let's say it's for the transcript, that almost all of the decrees have great inaccuracies. This decree should not be marked, for what should it be noted? Celebrate, or exchange, or honor. To be exact, to honor. Because of this, I say this in order to get it into the transcript, so that every decision to take into account the committee's observations, they're accurate, they're balanced and they're literate. We offer to support it. And the Yulia Timoshenko Block for the draft of this decree. I think most of them will. This is a representative of the majority – Paul Mokchan. As a result, support him and yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? I can't see. There's a very good point, and the committee's proposal is to change the word "mark" to "honor," because to celebrate nothing more than a year, "honor the memory." Dear colleagues, taking into account this clarification, vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day-to-day draft decree on the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the Great Terror, the 1937-1938 mass political repression, I mean 1937-1938. [[10026 - Registration Number]] Please vote. [[11:26:54]] For-183 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u80	The factions? Please. Region Party 2, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 96, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 41, communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 5. Next draft Decision marking 135th anniversary of the birth of Gnat Hotkević. [[Registration number 10027]] Do we need to tell you who Gnut Hotkevitch is or should we vote? Dear colleagues, does the author insist? Well, if he insists, please, Paul Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I refer, not to Communists, but to those who actually make up the majority and whose votes depend on the decision of one or the other. I'm just surprised if we're 75 years afraid to say that in our time, the Communist Party acknowledged the mistakes of its ideology, which asked for an apology at its convention. I understand the sequence of Peter Mikolaiovich, who is a consistent Stalinist, for he places him as a monument in all circles. But you, what are you afraid of? I don't understand! 75 years, I don't raise, I just want to understand the logic of behavior. And that's why I would just like to use Gnut Hotkevitch, which is a brilliant person, the creator of the Ukrainian theatre, the bandit, the writer, the classic Ukrainian, which is in all the textbooks. I don't need to. If you haven't read, that's your problem. But this person, who was similarly followed, who was similarly subjected to the same torture that all Ukrainian intelligence passed. That's why I think a man who's been scolded for a long time. Him, he's the author of one musical multi-man instrument, this thug. Today the whole world is using it. I'm not going to talk about all the works, about his masterpieces, about his songs, about his scouting folklore. The Kharkiv man is from Kharkiv, who went to Western Ukraine and enlightened those poor rumbles in those distant huts that he created there too. This is a great man and I don't need to convince you that joining the agenda and voting for this figure is just as necessary as it is for John the Fire. The man who had done so much had to put a lot of pressure on his work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u83	Well, I'm just calling for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u84	Thank you. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u85	I am very brief on what the representative of the majority Paul Mokchan said. What I'm saying is that Gnut Hotkevitch here is that it's a person, let's say, purely western Ukrainian. Gnut Hotkevitch is unique because he is Ukrainian, I emphasize, all-Ukrainian. Born in Kharkiv, youth passed in Kharkiv, but for his involvement in revolutionary events in 1905, 1906, 1907 he was arrested and, wanting to be arrested, I apologize, and he was forced to flee to Galicina. And the person who literally, well, the soul belongs to that Galician culture, to the same Gutsulian culture, writes history, creates a theater, unique, once again, man. But it turns out he's being arrested by the Soviet authorities. I mean, well, it's a tragedy all over, right here in the palm of this man. As a result, I don’t understand how to avoid voting. A man who, well, seems beyond politics, is simply a unique spiritual, cultural figure in Ukraine, a Ukrainian patriot. It's been so many years. Not to mention it, well, it's a huge sin. Take him to the shower!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, who insists on the performance? No, it's not. We'll vote. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Order to mark the 135th anniversary of the birth of Gnat Hotkević. [[Registration number 10027]] Please vote. [[11:31:47]] For 386 Decision taken. Please consider the draft decree marking the 140th anniversary of Bogdan Lepko's birth. [[about the inclusion of this project in the agenda]] Jaroslav Kenzior. From the committee, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, this is another unique Ukrainian figure, another fundamental such support of Ukraine, Ukrainian spirituality, Bogdan Lepko. I'll tell you this, because if there was one thing that this person wrote, and in our Ukrainian history, there were these, and Zabil, one song, "I'm looking up to the sky," and that was enough for this person to be immortal. Bogdan Pretty, I'm talking to you, I've written a unique song that is still popular today, "Listen, my brother" -- it's amazing, it's a visiting card for every Ukrainian on this planet Earth today. I'm not saying that this is the only writer who wrote just a little bit less than John Franco. And John Franco is about 90 volumes, if I'm not mistaken, and this one just wrote a little bit less is both the novels and the novels and the poems. A unique, simple person, for which time may have been so forgotten, it was like in a shadow, let's say, and we know less about it. Because I think the time has come when we need Bogdan Lepke, a unique Ukrainian poet, a proseic, a songwriter, I've only called it one song, he's got a lot of songs that were then used by us, but "You hear my brother," I say again, this is the song that I don't know who can vote against. Well, let's check now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u88	No one's going to perform? I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft the decision to celebrate the 140th anniversary of Bogdan Lepko's birth. [[Registration number 10044]] Please vote. [[11:34:09]] For three hundred Decision taken. I'm announcing a draft decree on the 120th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Polish writer, the artist Bruno Schulz, for inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 10127]] Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u89	Since there is no Kurpill, he is the author of this decision, but I am prepared to report both for him and for the committee. Well, first of all, I'm going to say that it initiated this marking because even once we saw it, the Polish Embassy in Ukraine. It is indeed a man of such magnitude between Poland and Ukraine, of all European scale, otherwise I will not say. Besides the fact that it's a writer who's actually continued this modernism, maybe not always understood by everyone and maybe not always close and, let's say, there's a Ukrainian reader, but a Kafka's direction, the direction in the literature, the direction of Kafka with all its strange, so-called passages, the shift of times, the shift of psychology, that's one after Kafka, that's one of his students the most talented and today. And after his announcements, a lot of movies were made. Most of all, he was born and actually lived his whole life and died in Drogbych. I mean, Ukraine for him. Today, even the fight for Bruno Schultz is coming. The Poles want to take it for themselves, and it's the right thing to do, because it was a Polish Jew and it had an evasive, so to speak, Polish. But we Ukrainians should not take it so easily and give it away because he spent his whole life in Drogobych. What's amazing is that in his house, in his apartment on the wall, he painted brilliantly, because he was also an amazing artist, who also destroyed completely modern such, as it were, notes in art. And on this wall, I drew a brilliant picture of this world. And we, without knowing who at first, because there were other people living there, half of this wall was destroyed, but half of it was preserved. And today the Poles insist and do everything to really save it. Above all, during the occupation, the German occupation, he was confined to the ghetto, to the Jewish ghetto in Drogobych, and was killed by an SS bullet. I don't think anyone's gonna be hanging around here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u90	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u91	To this unique man. I think we should support it, and Ukraine should have the honour of celebrating the anniversary of this beautiful artist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a big request. Let's put this draft decision in order of day, taking into account the importance and significance of this person for culture and Ukraine and Poland. I'd say even the world culture. Is there no objection? I'm voting on this proposal, namely the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the 120th anniversary Order of the birth of the outstanding Polish writer, Bruno Schulz. [[Registration number 10127]] Please vote. [[11:37:47]] For 351 Decision taken. I'm announcing a draft decree to commemorate the 125th anniversary of Alexander Archippenka's birth. Vladimir Yavorowski, please head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u93	Very short. I think it's Alexander Archippence, today it's not Bruno Schultz, who many of those who listen to us today may have heard of for the first time. Archippence was still legalized as it were, although it had been a long time both in immigration, both in Paris and in Berlin, and founded Ukrainian schools everywhere, but it had entered the history of world architecture as a Cubanist who, in fact, founded a completely new, modern, so on, style in sculpture. Many of his sculptures are now in the best, most expensive, most respected museums in the world. I think we should be proud of that name. I am convinced that Ukraine should celebrate his Jubilee. It is truly amazing that we should be proud of it, and I have no doubt that you are voting for it to be accepted. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and of course with those amendments. No, there's no amendment here, we've done it in writing. But once again, I emphasize that every decision to make the amendments made by the committee will be literate and accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, no objection to putting to the vote a motion for inclusion in the agenda? I'm voting for a proposal to be included in the agenda of the daily project. Order to mark the 125th anniversary of Alexander Archippenka's birth. Project registration number 10165. Please vote. [[11:39:44]] For 348 Decision taken. The Order Project is proposed to your attention on the 360th anniversary of the Battle of Batog. Registration number 10166. Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u95	I am both the chairman of the committee and the author of this bill. Why am I introducing this bill that moved me to celebrate 360 years of this unique battle? I'm just going to remind you and our voters, who are watching or listening. The year 1651 for the rebellion of Bogdan Hmielnickýk was a very bad year. We had to sign agreements with the Poles and the cabals. This is the Billocerk Agreement, which has deprived many of the gains that the Cossack army has had in many battles led by Bogdan Hmelnick. And in 1652, this battle under the city of Batog, it's not even a city, it's Batig, it's Mount Batig, it's the Chechelnicki district of my native Winnitzkin, literally about 30 to 40 kilometers from my native village. This legendary battle, led by Bogdan Hmelnicki, along with the Turkish troops that won, defeated literally the Polish army, and then began the second stage of the free fight of Bogdan Hmelnicky with other victories. That's why I'm convinced that this battle in our history is likened to, by the way, to the greatest, greatest battles of the well-known military chiefs, to the same thing as Hannibal, and to others, that it was indeed a unique battle of its magnitude, by its own talent. A talent, a military, as it were, a talent, when a completely Polish army was defeated. I think the Ukrainians should mark this battle, remind them of it. I'm sure it won't be such a great celebration or anything. But at least, our television, our media, I think that, and the vineyards, my countrymen, should still celebrate that people remember, that was the battle, that was the great battle that made the minds of the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u96	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u97	Approved the Ukrainians, their ability to protect their Fatherland. I believe you'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance? Then the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project is put to the vote a decree marking the 360th anniversary of the Battle of Batog. [[Registration number 10166]] Please vote. [[11:42:54]] For 377 Decision taken. It is proposed that you consider the draft Order on the Celebration of the Jubilee of Zacarpathian Writers John Chenday and Peter Skunz. [[Registration number 10167]] Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, our constituents! What moved me to unify the Jubilee of two different - age writers who worked in different genres? What is it? Well, because they're both from Uzhgorod, because they're both pretzels, but pretzels, I'd say, not local Zacarpathian spills, scales, and these are people, both writers, John Chandey is proseic, Peter Skuntz is an outstanding Ukrainian poet, united by what they were born, in fact, in one day. And because of that, it would be possible to make a single decision. I just want to remind you: John Chanday is a wonderful Ukrainian prose, a classic of Ukrainian prose. I'm underlining, all-Ukrainian, not Zacarpathian at all. Like Peter Skuntz, who discovered along with the Pentecostals, along with Boris Olijnik, Drach, Mikola Wingraovski, other poets, Valery Shevchuk, Eugene Güzal, who opened a completely new page in Ukrainian literature, a page of fresh with a breath of will, and so on. Peter Skuntz, no matter what he was really living in, I would say, a certain area of Zacarpathian, a poem of all the U.S. scale, especially his poem "Breaking John," where the direct reference was to John Juba, which was also banned, but then it was read and knew. Because I think we're going to make a very good gesture towards our Carpathian side if we vote and if both Carpathians and Ukraine celebrate the Jubilee of both, already dead, to the great regret, and Peter Skuntz, and John Chandey in one day to commemorate their Jubilee. And I'd like to ask people to come forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u100	Please, Stanislav Arjevitin. Two for, two against. Then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! Not so often does the Supreme Council give due consideration to the Zacarpathian land to its historical figures. The land, as writer John Albracht calls it, "the land without a name is a land forgotten by God." For more than a thousand years, the Carpathians were made up of 10 different countries. And each one of these countries imposed its own language, its own culture, its own poetry, and only because of the Zacarpathian writer did it from generation to generation, from one century to another to carry the Ukrainian word, Ukrainian culture, and Ukrainian poetry. Thanks to these Carpathian writers, it has thus far been possible to preserve the memory of the people’s avengers, the last sprays of Zacarpathian Lepeia, Pintu, Shugay, Roshenca, and many others. Among these associates of Ukrainian culture in this faraway region, I would now emphasize and remind Mikhail Luczak and Vasil Grinjo-Donsky, Augustine Volosin, John Irlyavsky, Alexander Dunovitch, Fedor Potushnjak, Zoreslav Sabo, Andrija Patrus-Carpatsky and many others. But of course, there is a special place on this list of our jewellers that we are talking about today, John Mikhailovich Chenday, Peter Mikolaiovich Skunz, who have taken a separate place on this list. They are named after the young Carpathian writers and thus continue to honor these beautiful writers of the land. I ask you to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u102	Mikhailo Chechetov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we are pleased that our proposal from the Party of the Regions, which has been addressed to both “Batikivščina” and “Our Ukraine”, to various fronts and movements, is that we should put into the Hall those bills that unite the Hall, which consolidate the nation that bind Ukraine, which unite the left and right banks of Dniepra, it is heard. You see, yesterday, a draft of the Company's Order on the 70th anniversary of the heroic defense of Sevastopol and Kerchi. He was supported not only by the majority, he was supported by the movement of one and two, and the Father-in-law, and our Ukraine, while voting, I saw, and for myself, and for that guy, almost 400 votes. Today we truly vote and support the anniversary dates of the distinguished Ukrainians, who have contributed enormously to the development of our spirituality, culture, literature. Therefore, the Party of the Regions today calls upon the minority, the opposition to vote in favour of this last ruling and thus to continue on this path, towards consolidation, unity and not political strife, in which we win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u104	May I have your attention, please? A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Order on the Celebration of the Jubilee of Zacarpathian Writers John Chenday and Peter Skunz. [[Registration number 10167]] About getting into the daytime. [[11:49:13]] For 377 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Order to refer to the President of Ukraine with a proposal for exemption from the post of Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the Decision Project prepared by myself, colleagues Andrey Kožemiakin and Mikola Martinenko, is a document that we want not only to help Ukraine but also to help the President. Because for two consecutive years, the President has been struggling with anti-Ukrainian corruption and, as Hanna Herman says, with Ukrainian politics of Dmitr Tobacco, there is not enough political will, perhaps sufficient arguments, to make a final informed decision. I fully agree with the President, who we have here in the session room, talking about the work of Dmitri Tobacco, who said that an anti-example could be reform of higher education. Repeat, anti-example. And the President is absolutely right, because for two years, parents, schoolchildren, students, students are hostages of political, ideological activity. Experts say that Dmitri Tobacco is a Russian nationalist in the Ukrainian government. Because it may be difficult to find such a person in a Russian government that would hate Ukrainian so much. I've repeatedly called the Attorney General's Office's attention to the mass of corruption in the ministry's officials' activities. With the Smoker. Let me just remind you a few things. In 2010-2011 the Ministry completely failed the government's procurement of textbooks and teaching aids, and the Attorney General's Office pointed out that at the end of the 11th grade, 2nd grade, I'm sorry, 10th grade, 2nd grade, 5th grade was out of textbooks. The Court of Auditors cited the egregious facts of abuse and corruption in the portion of the textbooks. The price of tobacco textbooks has soared that the Chamber of Auditors writes: "In 2010-2011, with a violation of the tender, 44 million bracelets were used in the production of textbooks." This means that if the budget had not been broken down, it would have been possible to issue additional, listen, 3 million 400 textbooks. Such facts are more than enough. And I think it would be fair and right not only to wait for the Russian side to be offended by the decision of the Ukrainian side or to be dissatisfied with one or another of the politicians who comes to Ukraine. We have to have a Ukrainian government that protects Ukrainian national interests, Ukrainian education, Ukrainian culture. And so we propose to the President to take a decision and leave our government, not anti-reform government, but reforms, and the government, not Ukrainians, but the government of those who respect Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u106	Thank you. Is the committee gonna make a speech? None. Is there a need to discuss this? Please sign in. Please, the names of the national MPs. Uljana Mistpane, faction "BUT" is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u107	Please pass the word to my colleague, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u108	Andrew School, microphone. Then there's Andrew Parobius.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Uljana. I would like to develop the opinion of the author of the decree, i.e. Mikli Tomenka, and remind you that today's ministry, for today's minister, has closed down the maximum number of Ukrainian schools and, in fact, in the east of Ukraine, where they need the largest possible guardianship of the state. We remember the suffering of the parents of children who struggled, starved, and suffered in order to preserve Ukrainian schools there in Donetsk, Luhansk, and Zaporez. All of this was destroyed. All of these schools were destroyed by hand, and today’s ministries. I just think there's two ways to do this: either take the word from the Ministry of Education that it's the Ukrainian Ministry of Education, and leave the Ministry of Tourism, or then the young people who are still there, sports, but not education at all. Or change the direction, eventually. Next. Recent innovations made by the Ministry of Education or anti-education, right? Because Ukrainian language has been removed from the 7th and 8th classes and the subject of Ukrainian history has simply been eliminated. These innovators, these, you know, propagandists of all anti-Ukrainian have invented to study Ukrainian history in the context of the world. No, I understand that Mr. Tobacco, as a strong supporter of Russian medieval literature, I, by the way, always suggest he name at least one author of medieval Russian that he read or that he may have helped to publish. It's very important because I understand that these are very well-known authors. In fact, this proponent of the Russian Middle Ages introduces the Middle Ages in Ukraine, so anti - Ukrainian. Because, well, how seriously can we talk about the Ministry of Education if the Ministry cares about eliminating Ukrainian language in school?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u110	Andrey Parubius, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u111	A boy named Andrew. Dear Ukrainian MPs, education in any state is an extremely sensitive sphere. The way education works depends on a whole generation of future citizens who will determine the fate of our nation. And what's happening today in Ukrainian education under Tobacco is just a disaster. This is where Mr. Mikola spoke of corruption. Indeed, there is a complete return of corruption to education. Destroying independent testing is a direct way to return to corruption education. Mr. Andrew spoke about the closure of Ukrainian schools. I was speaking from the rostrum. But in addition to Ukrainian schools in the Eastern part of our country, there is a massive closure of rural schools throughout Ukraine, throughout the country. And this position is reinforced by the fact that it may be very difficult in Ukraine to find a politician and an official who would hate Ukraine as much as Dmitri the Smoker. It seems that this person is specifically in the Ukrainian government to carry out orderly systematic work to destroy Ukrainian identity, Ukrainian spirit in Ukrainian education. This also applies to cases where we see restrictions on study and Ukrainian history and on the thought - provoking reasons for spreading and needing information. And we have to realize that the longer this person stays in power, the greater the threat to Ukrainian children, to the Ukrainian state. So today, I call upon all the deputies who have the understanding and the feeling that they live in the Ukrainian state and have to defend the Ukrainian interest, to support Mr. Mikli Tomenka's Order, to make the appropriate address, and to urge the President to resolve this personnel problem as soon as possible, and to remove this disgrace from Ukraine. Because being a Tobacco in the government is a huge disgrace to all of Ukraine, to our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u113	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Well, I guess it's not beautiful or manly when we didn't invite the Minister of Education here so we could tell him face to face. It's not like that, it's in the towers, it's like that. He would have responded, he would have argued his position, it would have been normal. And then I thought, why is this happening? What's going on? Today, a draft decree marking the 75th anniversary of political repression was issued. And it turns out that today, by this document that we are considering, we are resuscitating the political repressions that were 75 years ago, a political execution for dissuasiveness. I want to say that as long as the Party of Regions is in power, there will be no political repression, there will be no political massacres in Ukraine. None! We're building.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u114	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u115	There will be no reprisals!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A motion to include in the vote shall be put to the vote. Take down the vote. Paul Silent, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u117	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and Reverend Michael Vasilovich, I address you. Imagine that in the government of the States, Israel is sitting in an Arab in a minister's chair and it says that you wrote and recommended that you had no Bible, you had no language, you had no history of yours, it all started when Suleiman conquered this beautiful city and this territory of yours. What would those on whom he spoke, on behalf of the Jewish nation, say on behalf of the Israelites? What, tell us, how would we react? If a person writes consistently in all the capital work that appears to be mass investment in Russia, that we weren't there, that we were. People. How can this ideology be tolerated and tolerated?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Decision to refer to the President of Ukraine with proposals for discharge from the post of Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10082]] [[12:00:59]] For-141 The factions? Please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 98, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 36, communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, non-fractional – 5. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I think the President will return to this question not today, so tomorrow. But I would like us to return to the issue of our rulings, which were celebrated by the prominent Ukrainians. I agree with my colleagues in the Party of the Regions that Ukraine should be united, only it is true that it is desirable to unite them around the great Ukrainians, not the great Ukrainians. Let us honor the Ukrainians. And we're worried about our colleagues that maybe some technical malfunction took place during the vote to celebrate John Ivanovich's work. Let me just remind you that in literature, language, public work, we probably didn't have that level of action in the 20th century. This is the man who founded and led, was the first rector of Kamyanec-Podil State University; this is the man who made the first fundamental translation of the Bible from the original Hebrew and Greek texts into Ukrainian; this is the man who ran a fantastic educational work. Even if someone in the Party of the Regions doubts and does not like his work to preserve the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, although I am informed, and the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate respects his activities in religious activities, we would have to honor this man for his scientific, literary, and social activities and celebrate him at the national level. Therefore, the request from both the author of the decree and colleagues: Michael Kosiv, Boris Tarasyuk, to return to the consideration of the matter. And finally I want to tell you that our story is really intertwined. And experts studying the history of John John John’s Fire, cited an example that confirmed that Sergey Bubka was the brother of the great - grandfather John John John’s Fireman. Thus, the Donetsk region, along with Žitomirian John Fire, became entangled in Cossack history. So I think it would be unfair not to honor him on a national level.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I beg you, one moment, please. We've obviously lost sight of the meaning of this figure by emotion. And if the brothers that we voted on, the honourable colleagues, and which we did not vote on fire, we have come to you, believe me, I confirm what Mikola said to Tomenko, we have done historically unfairly. So I have a request, let's go back to the vote, put this draft decree into consideration, all the more so that it's honored by everyone: it's respected by the church, it's respected by scientists, because we're about to go into discussion. Well, please, Chechatov and Mikhail Kosov. Please. And we'll vote. We will listen to wise men.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u121	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! We support, in principle, the proposal made by the distinguished Nikolai Vladimirovic to return. But we ask for the opportunity to take a closer look at his historical biography, his historical record, and his next vote. There will be no vote today, and I do not want to put the vote to the vote today. Let us take note, in principle, that we are in favour, but give us an opportunity to study more seriously the biography, to look at this person's biography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u122	Please, Mikhail Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u123	Mikhailo Kosov, "BUT is the Fatherland." Well, it's a shame we're really going to have to accept that offer if we don't have enough votes. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the distinguished authors of this proposal, I'd like to add one more word after the word: "professor," and he's a professor. And what Vladimir Mikhailovich and Mikola Tomenko spoke about, the same unique translation from the ancient Greek and ancient Hebrew of all Scripture after he did the more complete work, there is no tradition, including even Russian, let me say it. It's already a feat, a feat of life, so let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I'm sure we've heard each other before. It takes some time for us not to break each other. So there's this proposal: let's go back, let's say Thursday, we're going to vote on these draft regulations too, and we're going to go back and make a decision, because this decision is not political, it's going to have great cultural and social significance. So if there's no objection, let's do it this way right now. I'm going to call it a 12-hour break for 38 minutes, and after the break, we're going to continue to consider issues that are already included in the agenda. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 38 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, please take your work months, we will continue our work. We need to consider draft regulations on the implementation of the recommendations and requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PARJE Resolution 1862 (2012) of 26.01.2012 "Function of democratic institutions in Ukraine"). [[PARENTS]] We have two reporters: Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, as well as Ivan Vasilovich Popescu. How will we consider this question? How do you propose? Please, what are the suggestions? Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u126	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, well, because today is a day of opposition, and so that we do not offend the opposition, and we will not be able to address all the issues there very much, they always raise such serious questions, and then they will criticise us that we have not allowed ourselves to address important issues again, even in the end. Therefore, in order to cut off all possible speculation, I think it is quite sufficient, on short notice, to take a decision on these issues. Even so, it is clear that it is necessary to make a decision, to support Ivan Popescu's Order, and to continue to follow the order of the day, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u127	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm asking you to determine. It's a regulatory rule. [[12:39:39]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if this proposal that Mikhail Vasilovich Chechetov said would not have been accepted, then this rule would not have been voted for. Reporters: Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, and National Deputy Ivan Vasilovich Popescu Lies down Grigorovich, you have to perform twice: first as the author and then after Popesk from the committee. Right? So now you're like the author, and then you're like the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u128	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, the Ukrainian state is in such a state that the outer perimeter, the influences on the outside, are becoming more and more important. And we should take this into account in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine under the Law on the Principles of Internal and External Policy. This new Law “On the Principles of External and Internal Policy” requires us to focus on the main issue — Ukraine's European reintegration, Ukraine's return to the family of European states, the family of European peoples. It's this angle that we have to focus on. Once after the war they once asked the Russian minister what Russia would do now, he said, "Russia will focus." The time has come for us to focus on our relations in Europe too, because this is our goal and the goal of our people, our relations with international organisations: the European Union, the OSCE, the PARE, NATO and others. Today, these relationships are critical. Our bill therefore pursues the objective of a balanced, balanced and minimal enough: to fulfil Ukraine’s commitments to an important European organization such as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u129	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u130	I've already informed you about this in the agenda, and I can only add one thing: our bill fully meets the requirements, the recommendations of the resolution, and I would like to accept it. Nor do we deny the adoption of a consolidated bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u131	Thank you, too. Ivan Popescu as the author of the bill ruled 10078.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In line with the conclusion No. 190 of 1995 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Ukraine's application to join the Council of Europe remained to fulfil the three most important introductory commitments: the adopted new Code of Criminal Procedure, the Laws on Lawyers and the Prosecutor's Office. In view of Ukraine’s long-standing pre-monitoring in the Council of Europe and the need to strengthen the country’s authority in the listed organizations, it is vital to accelerate Ukraine’s full implementation of its commitments to the Council of Europe and to harmonize national legislation with European standards. The main objective and purpose of the draft decision is to coordinate the efforts of all branches of government of Ukraine to implement the commitments made by Ukraine to the Council of Europe in accordance with Decision No 190, as well as to implement Resolution 1862 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the functioning of democratic institutions in Ukraine, taking into account national interests. The draft decree is aimed at fulfilling the commitments made by Ukraine to the Council of Europe and improving the cooperation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The implementation of the regulation will facilitate the completion of the monitoring procedure and the transition to a post-monitoring dialogue between Ukraine and the Council of Europe. My project is deprived of political element and does not create a precedent that could question the constitutional principles of the division of state power and the independence of judges in the exercise of justice. As far as politics is concerned, they should be based only on compromise, as was achieved during the adoption of the Electoral Law, not on ultimatum. But even a political decision should have a legal basis. I point out that many of the points that Europe requires need to be changed to the Constitution. So I'm paying attention to the need for all the political forces to work at the Constitutional Assembly and to present their conclusions there. This is true of the reform of the judicial system, which refers to 76 articles of the Constitution, which currently deprives those who do not have the right to participate in elections and so forth. And we're also going to the Cabinet of Ministers to look at the study by the Council of Europe of the countries that are participating in the Council of Europe on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u133	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u134	on standards in criminal law, electoral law, the regulation of the judicial system and the activities of political parties referred to in this resolution. And make appropriate proposals to the Supreme Council in the form of a legislative initiative so that they can work here. So I'm asking you to support my bill, because it is entirely based not only on recommendation 1862, but also on conclusion 190. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u135	Thank you. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. As far as the committee's decision on these projects is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered both draft regulations carefully and comprehensively, and has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the support of this project. The results of the vote: the majority, the 5 in favour, the one in the opposite, one in the back. And we thought on the committee that this was the minimum response to the resolution on the recommendations and requirements of the Council of Europe. Without such an answer, we will follow the line of further exacerbation to sanctions by the Council of Europe, other international organizations. With regard to John Vasilovich’s ruling, the committee decided to reject the bill, believing that the bill did not meet the requirements, did not respond to each paragraph of the resolution, and would cause not only disappointment, but a very sharp reaction from both PARJE and other organizations. The results of the vote for the rejection: 5 for the vote, one for the vote, two for the vote. Please support the committee’s recommendation for the adoption of the first decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. Olga Fedorovna Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Viacheslav Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u138	The faction of the Yulia Timoshenko will support the draft decision made by the deputies Oleg Belarus and other colleagues. It contains clear parameters that correspond to the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly, such as the release of prisoners, the possibility of their participation in elections, in the independent judiciary, the cessation of all moral and criminal practices in the judiciary. It is very important that the deadlines for implementing the recommendations are clearly defined and that it is suggested that they be discussed at a special meeting of the Supreme Council. That is, effective parliamentary control is provided. What is proposed, colleagues, in another project? Carefully analyse the recommendations, ensure processing, ensure development and even take into account the President's decree. In my opinion, the authorities have no intention of following up on the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and are engaged in, sorry, osmosis and delaying the country's sanctions. Thus, yesterday’s declaration regarding the acceleration of the signing of the Association Agreement remains only words today. There is now an excellent opportunity to prove true loyalty to European values by voting for Oleg Belarus's project, thus ensuring to Europe and the world its honest and decent face of true, not captivating Euro-Integrators. Thank you. And once again, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko asks for the support of Mr. Oleg Belarus' project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u139	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u140	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We have a strange way of integrating ourselves from the present power. On the one hand, here are reports of how they are integrated, and on the other hand, completely ignoring the real, real mechanisms of European integration. It's not just that, but virtually all European institutions are speaking out against the course of the current Ukrainian government in part of human rights. More specifically, the criminal abuse of these human rights, more and more, in the part of the political repression that is gaining momentum. See, there is a clear and clear position of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the individual European Commissioners and such an important fundamental institution as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, on the participation of Ukraine, when it joined the institution, in making a very specific commitment to upholding the norms, European standards of civilized co-existence. What does the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe require, and what does a large part of the Ukrainian society and the one behind the opposition and the one against the opposition require? It's required: stop the political repression once. Decriminalize the articles on which you plant politicians, not criminals — two. And allow people from opposition to participate in elections of equal rights, without falsifications, fair and fair. Nothing is required. On these key issues, Popescu's resolution, the resolution, more specifically, the draft ruling, the draft decision of the Party of the Regions, gives a negative answer. Since everything is proposed except for these key points, another torpedo of Euro integration is planned. We vote in favour of the Belarus project because we consider the project to be a major osmosis and a distraction to society from the harsh themes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u141	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov. I would ask each faction to express its position on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u142	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we are considering two important, fateful documents today. I am not mistaken if I say that both the majority and the minority, in a single wave, support the President of Ukraine in his quest to bring Ukraine into a large European home as quickly as possible, to make Ukraine an integral part of a large European family with high living standards, with a high level of economics. Today, when considering two bills, one thing can be noted. In principle, they speak of the same substance. But if you look at the bill recommended by the committee, it clearly looks at the political line of the party, it is a party document. If you look at Ivan Popescu's document, you can write, the State, it's a state document, it's from the person of Ukraine. The interests of the party will never outweigh the interests of the State and Ukraine. We propose to support the Ivan Popescu bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u143	Yes. Who from the faction of groups that have not spoken will yet be speaking? Tushenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I'm not going to talk to you about these political burdens that are all rocking. I want to testify to the following. The Timoshenko's "Batychina" bloc in the Supreme Council is a well-balanced and constructive political power. We stand for resolution 1862 not to be followed by resolution 1863. We should thank John Vasilovich Popescu for doing so on the day he took office as head of the Parliamentary Assembly. What Is the Difference? Ivan Vasilovich drags us into 1995 and then into eternity. And the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe requires us to be constructive, specifics that will allow us to enhance Ukraine's authority in the eyes of the European community. That's why we're voting for Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u145	Who else insists on the factions that did not act? Replica, then Popescu, if no one insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u146	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to point out that some colleagues manipulate the name of the functional democratic institutions in Ukraine without reading the Resolution itself. I point out that in order to change 365th, the 364th Criminal Code of Ukraine needs to be brought into line with European standards. At my request, the Ministry of Justice conducted a criminal law analysis in 30 countries. I want to tell you that there are similar standards in the 11th and even in the countries of the European Union. One second. The Legal Committee of the Council of Europe is now preparing a report on the delimitation of political and criminal responsibility. On this basis, we must bring our legislation into line. As for the last colleague who said that I should have done what I did when I took the position of head of the delegation. From the very beginning, we turned to all organs, and we constantly perform. Eleven points were met that year. What did the previous authorities do? Now we're pointing out that we have three moments left to take out the monitoring. What we're proposing is this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u147	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u148	What we offer is a concrete step toward fulfilling our obligations and completing the monitoring procedure. Including the questions contained in the Resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u149	Thank you. Carmazine, please. That's it. It's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I would like to draw your attention to the unconstitutionality of the individual points of the Supreme Council Order, which is now proposed by the majority. And I would ask you as Head of the Supreme Council to do everything for the Consolidation of the Supreme Council upon the adoption of this Order. Because people will laugh. Think about it, in the first part, we're the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the only legislative body, we're talking about the President's decree on the activities of the Constitutional Assembly. In the third paragraph, we recommend, most of us recommend, to all the political forces what to do, to work again in the Constitutional Assembly. Well, whatever you do, you take it all to the same point. And in the second paragraph, we're showing that we haven't analyzed the Parliamentary Assembly's appeal at all, because it says, "In preparation, carefully analyse the recommendations." Well, they'll laugh at us, ladies and gentlemen! I say these things are unconstitutional and they should go through the Committee of Legal Policy. And we need to prepare a consolidated project, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've finished the discussion and we've agreed with you on a number of occasions that we really need to go to the final stage of adopting the agreed project, and we need to figure out what the project is going to be based on. The committee was speaking. There is no abbreviated word. I'm asking you, you asked me to step out of the faction, from the faction, you did everything. Well, come on. Dear colleagues, I ask you to look closely at these two documents. To be honest and objective, these two documents, of course, need serious work, both first and second. I think everyone agrees, because we're not going to solve anything with the calls. So let's now define acceptance as the basis for a project, and we'll continue to do as the Supreme Council decides. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Supreme Council Regulation on the implementation of the recommendations and requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (Parje Resolution 1862 (2012) of 26.01.2012 "Function of democratic institutions in Ukraine"). [[Registration number 10055]] [[PARENTS]] Authors: Belarus, Goody, School, Sas, Tarasyuk and Helen Bondarenko To be accepted as a basis, as a basis. [[12:59:34]] For-147 The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 97, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 42, communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, non-fractional – 7. The draft Decision on the Action Plan for the Implementation of Conclusion No. 190 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Ukraine's application to join the Council of Europe and Resolution No. 1862 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the Functioning of Democratic Institutions in Ukraine is now under way. [[2012]] Please vote. [[13:00:34]] For 270. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one minute. In accordance with the Rules, if one member denies it, it cannot be accepted as a whole. Sergey Shevchuk already said, that's enough. All of it. I'll bet you a vote. There may be such a suggestion: to have the committee prepare this draft decree for the second reading by a reduced procedure. [[I'm going under the rules.]] Please vote. [[13:01:22]] For 257 Decision taken. It is now under review the draft Order marking 75 years from the date of the birth of Hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnovola. Let's think about it in a nutshell. Can I take a shortcut? I'm asking. Boris Ivanovich, can we take a brief look? I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:02:01]] For 246 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Boris Tarasyuk. He is head of the Vladimir Yavorowski Committee. Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, December 24 is 75 years old from the date of the birth of Hero of Ukraine, prominent statesman Viacheslav Cnerovola. In connection with this, along with Deputies Kowal and Blackwolf, I am introducing a corresponding decree to mark the 75th anniversary. Viacheslav Crnowil was an outstanding figure, a strong defender, a man who was the source of the restoration of Ukraine’s national independence and the expansion of our state. Viacheslav Czarnowil was a national deputy during the first or third call of the Supreme Council. For many of you, Viacheslav Cnerwell was a colleague, and for many of you in this room he was an accomplice. You know that 13 years ago, December 25, a tragic event destroyed the lives of Viacheslav Cnervol. In fact, we claim that it was a murder, a premeditated murder of Viacheslav Chernobyl. Today, as you know, Wiacheslav’s wife, Athena Pasko, died last night. And I think that a better tribute to the memory of our colleague, the National MP, the Hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnovola would be the adoption of a decision that would provide an organizational framework in preparation for marking the 75th anniversary of this outstanding figure in Ukrainian modern history. I ask you to support both the inclusion and the overall determination given. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u153	Vladimir Yavorowski. Mikhail Kosov will be speaking from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! Then, on March 25, 1997, I had a sad duty to speak out of this rostrum and to announce to the then Supreme Council Hall in 1999, yes, in 1999 the tragic death of Viacheslav Crnovola. I'm sorry, I was so excited. Hence, since 1999, this figure, which has deviated from us, has become completely new. I would like to turn not only to the right side of the hall but also to the left, because Viacheslav Maximovich Crnovil was an amazing person from Transnistrian Ukraine. But in his person, he combined both sympathy and interests both in Eastern and Western Ukraine. It's actually this idea that's very relevant today. It seems to me that the marking of this date will give us the opportunity to put on the agenda very many of those ideas that are relevant to today's merger of the assembly of Ukraine, and also to look at the principles, because Crnowil was not only a member of the Supreme Council, but also the first head of the Lviv District Council to do so, as they call it, a democratic calling. That's what he suggested, what he did. Let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u155	Dear National Deputies! There is a need to discuss whether we can vote. Please sign in. Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Jaroslav Kendzer? Jaroslav Kenzior, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", then Jaroslav Suhi. Or who's going to act from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u156	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the figure of Viacheslav Cnervol is unique in modern Ukrainian history. As a person who had to know very closely, working with Viacheslav Chernobyl, I want to say without exaggeration that it was, as he himself said, a happy figure because he was able to destroy this empire, where Ukraine and the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian patriots were dwindling and struggling. And he was able to wait for the realization of his idea of an independent Ukrainian state and do much to ensure that Ukraine regains its state independence. And today, I think, for many on the left, and on the right, like the deputies of colleagues, Cranwell is a model of Ukrainian citizen, Ukrainian patriot, Ukrainian fighter and builder. And he himself finally spoke of it. And today, if I go a little bit further, I find very bitterly large that we are already in the 20th year of Ukraine's Independence, to a great extent, misinterpreted the notion of "Ukraine's National Democracy" and "political prisoner." Because we know what the political prisoner of the time of Viacheslav Chernobyl is and we know what was behind it. So I'm proposing and I'm asking you to support this determination so that we're with something new and fresh.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u157	Please, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u158	With a fresh look and a deeper look at the character of Viacheslav Crnovola, some follow up on the ideas of Viacheslav Crnovola and his efforts, to them, until those ideas are realized today, Ukraine will need much and much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u159	Yes, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u160	I'd like to give the deputy Chechtev Mikhail Vasilovich a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u161	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u162	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, we'll support this ruling, there can't be two opinions here. We call on everyone to support it, because it is indeed a historical personality that has stood at the source of our statehood. But there is a second, not a very personal aspect of this problem: unfortunately, in the "minority" room, the leaders of the Ruha, which was created by Vejacheslav Crnovil as the most powerful party, and today's leaders, including the rapporteurs sitting here, destroyed the Ruh, made him a "fatherskini" satellite, and the tails of the Fatherskini take turns. It's a disgrace! Therefore, I propose to support this "holy" order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u163	Yes, Volodymyr Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u164	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. The Viacheslav Mikhailovich Crnowila figure, regardless of the years that have passed, has not only become smaller, it has become more and more relevant to Ukraine. What today’s authorities do with the people, with opposition, was done by the former authorities. I remember those years when our little faction at the time, 18 people in the Supreme Council, the Reforms and Orders party ripped as they could. And on the day of Alexander the Emc's death, who also died by accident in such interesting circumstances, as did Jura the Orobec, as did Anatoly the Jermak, as did Michael the Oroth. [[They're all from our party.]] It was an accident! So at the time that it happened, the faction remained in such a number that it would have been annulled. On the other hand, Viacheslav Mikhajlovich Cnerwell made a personal decision, and we received support from Olena Bondarenko, a Rephat Chubarov, and Mikhailo Kosov. He did not think there to show his greater power; he maintained the unity of the patriotic forces. Then the first agreement was signed, which took a step toward a union that resulted in the year 2002, and Victor Pinzenik and Viacheslav Mikhailovich signed a union agreement. Maximovich, I'm sorry. Excuse me, excuse me. So I want to say that Viacheslav Maximovich is that flag for us, and it is impossible to trample on his grave or do something like that of today’s authorities. Surely you will vote that the more people die or die, the better you will be. Today, there is a school called Viacheslav Maximovich Chronovola, 235. And we come there to let young people know this patriot, to see how he kept Ukraine, and to feel the responsibility that lies on their shoulders. For today’s authorities are doing all they can to forget that name. And I want to say you're not going to make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u165	Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u166	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you know, we don't seem to be discussing anything here, because such a great man, in a capital letter as Viacheslav Maximovich Cnerovil, deserves to be accepted without even discussing it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the MPs didn't sign up for the speech. Why did I sign up for asking the Head of the Supreme Council to give my word? You don't have to speculate at least here what you're turning into courses or one or the other side. Who here is looking for the dead and wants many more? Oh, come on, will you? What are you doing? Let us vote quietly and honor the man who has done much more for this state than most of those who have spoken here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I would like to ask your attention before putting the draft resolution to the vote, so that they can agree with some of the clarifications. In the second paragraph, recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, second paragraph, delete the words "Give an order to the formed organizational committee to develop and.".. It's just "The Cabinet of Ministers, recommending the Cabinet of Ministers to approve the plan of action" and beyond. On the second page, delete the word in the first paragraph of "interested social organizations", the word "interested" deletes -- "civil organizations" simply. Next, paragraph one, second, third, fourth, change the differences there. "To hold a scientific conference in Kiev in December 2012 on the role of Viacheslava Crnovola in the restoration of Ukraine's independence and the establishment of Ukrainian statehood," as well as thematic conferences, "to fix the round tables on the life and activities of Viacheslav Crnovola in the areas of Ukraine". I mean, there's a place to fix it. Is there no objection? All the rest of the text, only paragraph 3 there after Vjacheslav Maximovich Crnovola "ta" deleted, was accidentally stolen there. And with these clarifications in mind, if there is no objection, I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole in the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a decree, i.e. to mark the 75th anniversary of the birth of Hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnovola. [[Registration number 9692]] Please vote. [[13:15:58]] For 381 Decision taken. I mean, the ruling was passed. Thank you. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 185, "BUT – "Fathership" – 97, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 47, communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 13. A draft decree on the 140th anniversary of the birth of Solomia Kruschelnicky is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10013]] Why don't we vote now? Moreover, the Committee does not have and suggests that it be accepted as a basis, as a whole. I'm voting on the proposal for a Supreme Council of Ukraine decree to commemorate the 140th anniversary of the birth of Solomon Cruschelnick. [[Registration number 10013]] Please vote. [[13:17:10]] For 374 I'll take the order. Thank you. The draft Decree, I'm sorry, is being announced for consideration, the draft Act on the non-improvement of pension insurance for Ukrainian citizens. [[Registration number 9004]] Let's think about it in a nutshell, because we're not going to be able to make it any different. I'm just asking the author, or we won't be able to consider this in 14 hours. May I? I am voting on a motion to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:18:01]] For 217 Decision taken. The reporter is Andrew Pavlovsky. The Coroner is the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u168	Andrey Pavlovski, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, is "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! The Fatherland opposition is proposing a draft Act to prevent the deterioration of the pension security of Ukrainian citizens. Let me remind you that since October 1st last year, the so-called pension reform of Yanukovič-Azarova-Thipka has come into force, according to which the retirement age of women, all women and men has been increased by 10 years for the duration of their employment. So it takes 10 years for every Ukrainian to work harder to get a modest pension. The pension calculation database has been reduced. The government refused to modernize pensions, resulting in the government of Azarov-Januković not paying more than 300 dollars to each pensioner. And all of a sudden, six months before the election, Yanukovich had ordered that there were more than 14 million pensioners in the country who were barely living. His so-called social initiatives are taxes with the oligarches of the Party of the Regions. They promise 100 bracelets before the election. And where did you divide the other 200 bracelets? Did you put an oligarch's pockets in the Party of Regions? In its bill, the opposition proposes not to raise the retirement age, to introduce a moratorium, to return to the state of your retirement genocide. Do not increase the length of the insurance period required to receive a meager pension. And finally, dare to modernize pensions, which will allow each pensioner to add 324 bracelets to each pensioner, to prevent any deterioration in pension insurance, even today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u169	Mikola Kulczynski, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u170	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, reviewed the bill at its December 1, 2011, meeting. It is a bill on the moratorium by 2030, as has already been said, to increase the retirement age, to increase the minimum age for men and women for all types of pensions. A moratorium on the reduction of the estimate of the year of the insurance period applied since 01.10.2008 in the calculation of pensions. The Committee on Budget Affairs points out that the bill has no impact and can be accepted from the time of publication. The Human Rights Committee believes that changes should be made to laws that determine the conditions for the retirement of citizens. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the moratorium by 2030 is unacceptable. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons on Pension Reform and Parliamentary Hearings from the Pension System has always stressed that it had a monolithic position. The fact that it is impossible to increase the retirement age is impossible to raise the minimum insurance period until all economic burdens are involved, such as payments to the Pension Fund. It's about overcoming unemployment, it's about overcoming corruption and a lot more. However, the committee voted in favour of taking note of the scientific and expert management's thinking and sending a draft for work. Although I personally think it's a normal thing to do this moratorium by 2030. It does not prohibit, as it were, the improvement of the pension system, but it prohibits the deterioration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u171	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u172	I don't think we're going to get out of this crisis that fast. As a result, I personally ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Yes, the People's Deputy Korge, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland. It's a pain in the ass, isn't it? Please. Who will act? Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I personally want to speak to my colleague Chechtov in this room so that he has the opportunity to speak later on, and for a two-minute performance. Dear colleague, I'm addressing Chechchev, I'm addressing you. That's the point. Three times in this room is a proposal from the opposition: where to take money on pensions, on other social benefits that are now widely advertised as government initiatives. We've named three sources that are decided by one vote in this room. The first source is officially published data, which pays eight times less than the standard for the use of useful fossils and metering. Who does the profits go to? Who should share? Where are the rich who are to be shared with the poor? One vote in the hall is $30 billion in fines. Because no one can stop oil, gas, margin, polymers, or iron ore, no one can stop it. Second source. At the end of the year, Ilić’s Metallurgical Combine was added to the budget without paying a penny. The price of questions like the Creatures has lost $4 billion. One vote is money in cash. And the third source. But in the end, cancel this disgraceful deal with Cyprus. So how much will they leave the country, how much, until now, 30 billion dollars without paying any taxes? Then they come back as foreign investments, again without taxes, here they make money, the pump continues to work irresistibly, deblooding the economy. Dozens, hundreds of billions of dollars that can be fined by two or three votes. Mr. Mikhailo, please report to the rostrum. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u175	National MP Demyanchuk, Communist faction, please. Who will be, Vladimir Lechchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Lechchenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u177	Vladimir Leschenko, please. Next up will be Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u178	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! As we know, black things are always done at night. It was no exception to the night of July 7, 8, 2011, when representatives of the bourgeoisie in Parliament adopted the antinational pension reform. I'll remind the voters that they voted in favour of: the faction of the Party of Regions – 188 deputies, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 11, the People's Party – 20, the Reform Group for the Future – 18, the non-factional – 11 deputies. It's just 248. This confirms once again that the bourgeoisie’s attack on workers’ rights is always united. That's even worse. On September 6th, these same deputies took out 10 million pensioners for 300-400 dollars, and now the President wants to add 100. I don't know what these social initiatives are. Or let's just think about what an increase in the retirement age will lead to for women from 55 to 60 years of age. If a woman is 55 years old, she will have to work. And when she got rid of some reason for her work, of course, no one would take her to work at that age. So there's going to be a sharp increase in unemployment among women. The other side. If a woman works from 55 to 60, she won't free her job, and those young people who grow up, they'll be deprived of the job. So there's already been a deterioration in pension insurance, although the bill is about non-admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u179	Jaroslav Suhi, please, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I am deeply saddened in this rostrum and have repeatedly had to speak in this room, the social bills of the so-called "anti-national opposition to the former coalition" have long since turned into a mere act of common sense. One passionate deep political desire behind these bills is to pressure its political opponent. The people of these bills are neither cold nor hot. There is a simple attempt to manipulate social consciousness. Is it not understandable to a person who works on a profile committee that a change in retirement age is not a monetary one but a result of negative demographic processes that are unfortunately objective? We can't stop them. On this journey, after a change of age, all European nations walked. And he will follow us and Russia, and it will not go anywhere. Because the increase in the budget deficit of the Pension Fund is putting at risk. But I wouldn't, listen, how much money can you speculate on? There an egghead constantly tells us that someone stole, and he was somewhere in the bushes watching. This one tells the former Deputy Prime Minister about Cyprus. I'll tell you where the money is. In Somalia Enterprises, according to Matthew Bzezinsky, one madam costs $11 billion. Let's get Cyprus back to the Pension Fund. 30 billion dollars a year from its submission, the Russian budget is getting rich, not our budget. Who is to blame? We're not talking about it, we're saying, let's think about social policy issues in a balanced and professional way. This is not the way to mislead people all the time. We're not going to change demographics in the next few years, we're going to change age.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u181	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense. Honorable national MPs would not have to adopt this law at all if they had complied with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution. But then there would probably be a government representative here, one of the vice-ministers, now there's a lot of them, even the minister of health right now -- vice-minister, someone who could be put up and someone would be speaking on this topic right now. I mean part three of article 22. Ukraine, which reads: "In adopting new laws or amending existing laws, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed. And that's what the representatives of the distinguished Communist Party, who are part of the coalition of this majority, who have carried on the anti-national pension reform, have gone through most of it, because it wasn't there, it would be a completely different design for the Supreme Council. That's why what we've put into the budget, more faithfully, you've put together a budget with the government just for the financing of the Constitutional Court. Think about it, 18 judges, 300 employees of the apparatus, 3,000 total documents coming in a year, 3,000 totals are less than I get per year, and what? 67 million dollars for funding. Well, of course, you get more and more budget, the political bribe goes. Next. There was no need for a moratorium if our president hadn't stopped in Moscow now in the most expensive room, $13,000 in one night, 104 thousand dollars. It's okay. What moratorium? No moratorium would be necessary. Whether you need a moratorium or not, I think you should. There were hints about Timoshenko. And today you're returning the thousand that Timoshenko returned, only twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! Please, Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u184	Thank you. Gennady Zdirko, Mikolayevščina, United Left and Village Party. I will personally support my colleagues' bill because our Constitution says that our state is social, but unfortunately it is antisocial. And really, this bill is about a moratorium that needs to be imposed. And the point is to raise the minimum pension by 324 bracelets. And, really, I support the speech of my colleague who said that when we're told that there's no money in the budget, let's, in fact, vote for additional taxes on beneficial mines and nadra. And let's vote off the deal that is between the Soviet Union and the Republic of Cyprus. And, indeed, in this case, our Pension Fund will increase and be able to fulfill the social obligations that lie ahead of the State to the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, the discussion has been concluded. With regard to the proposals made in the speeches regarding the execution of a public execution, the logic here is iron. The Cabinet of Ministers promises to enact a law that applies to the very part of the fossils that our colleague, John Kirilenko, spoke of. It's a shame we all know what to do when we're in power, we don't do anything. One second. With regard to the elimination of the offshore zone from Cyprus. Dear colleagues, who passed the bill for which they voted so friendlyly? And I have said, and I have denied that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no right to initiate the annulment of the agreement. Who brought it? Who voted? So let us all take responsibility for what we do. And to tell you how well people have to live, you can. And notice. As soon as they spoke and disappeared into the session room. And they say that bad Supreme Council. You have to sit and work in it, argue positions of some kind. And we're all making outfits. It was possible. The possibility of introducing these laws and adopting them earlier. Let's think about how we fought over social standards and the minimum of living. Then why didn't they vote? Let us then say what we need to do and make serious decisions. A proposal is put to the vote. I recall the conclusion of the committee: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. At the same time and again in accordance with the Rules, the proposal to adopt the draft Law on the Prevention of the Reduction of Pension Insurance of Ukrainian Citizens is submitted to the vote. [[9004]] [[13:35:55]] For 155 The decision is not taken. Now, by the factions, please. Region Party 4, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 96, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 26, communists – 24, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, non-fractional – 4. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u186	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to answer without any irony and without coffee, to the esteemed Ivan Grigorievich. I repeat, the word "respectable" is not brown. You know, that's what you won't deny our opposition, it's in the capacity to criticize, lie and discredit Ukraine in the international arena. Right here on five! It's a skill to ask questions. The question is, why weren't these questions raised by Pope and Maidan's mother? Why didn't you ask these questions about "pope" and "mommy" Maidan? [[B in m in s a l in]] Here's the answer to the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] The second one goes on. When the author said that why do we raise a hundred bracelets and not two hundred? Where's the 200? Yeah, if it wasn't for the gas cable contract, we'd raise it by 300. But thanks to Janukovic's successful trip to Russia, we will balance the gas contract and strengthen our friendship with Russia and bring Ukraine to Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I'm announcing a draft decree on the increase in living minimum and minimum wage in 2012. The Viacheslava Kirilenka project. The author will report, says Alexander Stoyan. Váchaslav Anatoliovich, how do we work? By full procedure? Let me put to the vote a brief vote, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:38:16]] For 218. The decision has been made. Please, Viachelav Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear voters, dear colleagues! I passed this bill on February 3, but since then it has become even more relevant. Why? Because the President took a package of social initiatives and said 25 billion dollars of extra money had been found a month ago. So the implementation of my decision is, practically, the question solved if the good will is not only the opposition but also the majority. There's money, and Tihypco said it, and Yanukovich and Azarov, 25 billion have been found. What's my offer? The famous thing is that the subsistence minimum that is paid, and from here both pensions and minimum wages, are underestimated compared to the actual cost of living. Now, let's look at December's official Ministry of Labour. The actual subsistence minimum for working persons in December of last year is 159. The government installed since January 1, this year a thousand 73 bracelets, i.e. minus 86 bracelets per month in a working person is collected, unpaid, which means that the minimum wage is down, the same applies to the minimum wage for non-working persons. This means that the monthly pension rate is down 33 bracelets. The actual December subsistence allowance, according to Minpraca, is 855 dollars, and the government's fixed 822 bracelets. Therefore, honourable colleagues, since the money has been found to be, and more simply, hidden in the adoption of the budget, the real and income portion of the State Budget and the Pension Fund to distribute to the elections, I propose not only to raise the audiences who will actively vote, including, but rather to raise basic public social standards. And I'm going to remind you that basic state social standards by law are minimum and minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u189	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u190	The minimum and minimum wage. I therefore propose not only the opposition but also the majority to support the draft decision and entrust the government with a two-week deadline to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian State Budget and increase the subsistence minimum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u191	I invite the head of the Subcommittee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, our Committee on Social Policy and Work has always addressed important social problems and has generally supported them. I recall that in 2005-2006, when the author here on the rostrum was the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, he was the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Timoshenko on social policy issues, and I can't recall any bill aimed at raising social protection. There's nothing I can think of! But I can remember that during that period the minimum wage was 80 percent of the minimum wage. By the way, let me remind you: for the first time in years of independence this year, the minimum wage is 100 percent equal to the minimum wage. I can remind you this: in 2005, the minimum pension is 498, we're all standing here in the rostrums, we say give 553, and the honourable author does not vote for this proposal. And now it's so generous. Where did such kindness come from? Why are you doing this? So what I'm saying is that, really, the subsistence minimum is too low, and in 2005, when we filed, our committee and the government, the food set, your government, Timoshenko, should have voted. You didn't vote then. To be objective, I will say that the government of Azarov, with a new living basket in his office today, has not yet been determined, and this must be done. And I'll be honest with you, the minimum wage is 20 to 30 percent today. But it has to be done, but it's not like the author suggested: look at the minimum cost of living every month, the minimum wage every month. Please tell me where the budget is. Where is the budget coming from? It's pure water populism. What President Janukovic said, raising social standards, it's calculated, it's going to be done, and this year's already salary of more than 1,000 300 is going to be, the minimum pension is going to be close to a thousand dollars. And you don't have to complain about what you did or hid. If it's even hidden there, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u193	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u194	Wait a minute. The cryostall didn't stretch, the IMF didn't spread the money. If saved, we will give everything to the people, and people will thank us.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u195	Please sign up for a discussion of the bill. Please, Vladimir Karpuk passes Viácheslav Kirilenko. Please, Mr. Viacheslav. Sergey Sobolev will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u196	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear voters, dear colleagues! All the time, putting everything on your forerunners is a sign of the craziest political tone. Since the current authority team is in power for 2.5 years, it should long be responsible for its own actions. So I'm not even going to talk about what I did, including myself, when I was working as a minister, and later as Vice Prime Minister. I worked honestly both in social policy and fought with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy at every government meeting and even in parliament when they wanted financialists and economists to lower social standards. And your Tihypco won't say a word across from Azarov and more Janukovich to support simple pensioners and ordinary people, just what is allowed, he will say. When I was a minister, I went to every meeting of the Committee of Social Policy, then to my family, and to the Committee of Pensions, and vice-premier, I went to every meeting, and that's how I did it. And you can call it whatever you want, because it's already a matter of your own political conscience, who's acting in government positions. Now for the bill. The previous speaker himself said that the subsistence minimum was too low. Take a stenographer if he refuses now. And I propose paragraph 1 of the ruling: Recognize the minimum and minimum wage laid down by the State Budget Act in such a way that they cannot provide minimum health and social and cultural needs." The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers will immediately review the increase in the cost of living. That I don't have a month to look at, and I don't have a word. Take a quarterly look at how you want to do this, and take social initiatives. Colleagues, if you've hidden 25 billion dollars, don't give it to those you've decided to give it to, but raise everyone's wages and pensions and all the payouts. For all the social benefits come from the minimum of living, and raise them up, and not from the wicked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u197	I invite you to say Sergio Soboljeva, "BUT is the Fatherland", followed by the Grivkov People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to give an answer to the man who thought he was the vice-premier here at the time. So I want to remind you, you were the second number on the Yushchenka list back then, weren't you? And there's something I don't remember from you. And whoever's sitting next to you, I remember showing up at the D.A.'s office how they ripped up Crevystall by selling it not for 20 billion, but for 4 billion at the direction of Prime Minister Yanukovich and President Kuchma. So let's essentially do it. What distinguishes the so - called social initiatives of Yanukovich from what my colleague Kirilenko offers. Colleague Kirilenko offers a very clear calculation of the raising of key social standards for all categories of pensioners, for all categories of low-income workers. So we don't have a situation where we have a 40-year-old pensioner and a 20-year-old pensioner, no matter what, we're going to have the same pension soon, if you're going to give 100 bucks to those who don't actually have that job, directly that salary that any pensioner who retires should have. The other one. My colleague made it clear in his bill, which makes it possible to do so. I can still hear 11 billion, that's 17 billion, that's 25 billion, to be given to the Yanukovich initiative. Show me one bill that you would like to increase your budget by one bracelet instead of stretching the budget with your daily changes. That's why our faction supports Kirilenko Viacheslav's proposals, which make it absolutely clear that the white and black pensioners don't get out, as your subordinate Constitutional Court does when it prohibits the retirement of higher-class pensioners, because you can see that this is contrary to the Constitution, but it cancels the pensions of 14 million pensioners. That's why our faction supports this initiative, and we have to forge it once and for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u199	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u200	legislatively, it's not an election donation, it's a clear calculation that's backed up by the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u201	Is anyone speaking from the National Party? There's no Grivkowski. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u202	Dear fellows, I will not fall upon the forerunners and engage here in the word of fornication, who told anyone, and who ever did. I think the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of colleague Stoyan said clearly and unequivocally: the committee acknowledges that the committee has repeatedly addressed the government, and the first Deputy Minister of Labour, Socialist Vasil Nadraga, who is here, can confirm. We have repeatedly talked about the need to view the consumer basket, and this view is now being completed and implemented. There's one thing I want to say. Well, maybe someone doesn't know, but the former minister, the former Deputy Prime Minister, couldn't know that the minimum of living is not determined by the Supreme Council regulations, but is established after scientific, public expertise, and at the minimum of living, he was responsible to the Prosecutor's Office for every number. That's why we and the people need to know. We have two digits: we have a real subsistence minimum, we have a different thing, we have a level of subsistence minimum that the President of Ukraine has set to eliminate as an indicator. Because this indicator is not about providing a minimum of living, it's about a level. That's what this is about. I'd like to say, by turning to the opposition, stop making people laugh, where these nonsensees about government money I hear a lot of times. Where, where is the bank, where are the accounts? And the last. My dear colleagues, speaking earlier in discussing the previous bill, allowed me, in a dispute, to make statements that seemed offensive to John Grigorovich Kirilenko. I say here to everyone in the hall, I deeply respect this man, the former Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, if my words have offended him, I apologize to him. And as for the anti - national opposition, remember and do not laugh, you are heard by people who understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u203	I'm betting on a draft decree to increase living minimum and minimum wage in 2012. Project of the People's Deputy Viacheslav Kirilenko. [[9772]] Please vote. [[13:51:07]] For-149 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 3, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 92, "Our Ukraine" – 22, Communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, non-fractional – 5. Dear colleagues. We have three bills left where there are no committee decisions. We'll go faster, and it would be fair for us to continue for 15 minutes, and we'll consider these three bills. So I'm going to continue our work for 15 minutes. I'm announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Judicial and Status of Judges on internships for the appointment of a judge. The project of the national MP, Elena Shustik. Please, Olena Yuriovno. Clearly, I would like to support a reduced procedure so that the three bills can be considered. I would like to vote in favour of the draft short procedure. [[13:52:15.]] For 261 The decision has been made. We're looking at a reduced procedure. Please, Olena Yuriovno, report the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u204	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges, adopted in July 2010, was an example of contradictions, misunderstandings, and clearly unconstitutional norms. The law, by the way, laid down the same requirements for judges of appeals and higher specialized courts, allowing special officers of Femida to be transferred from the local courts immediately to the higher courts. The newly created Supreme Special Court of Civil and Criminal Affairs consists of 20 percent of those judges who served immediately at the district court. So, what quality of justice can we talk about in such a situation? It is logical to establish clear requirements for judges who claim to be promoted. First. I propose to increase the necessary internship for judges from 5 to 7 years of age. It is now five years old, as it is for applicants to work in appeals courts. The other one. The judge of the High Court must work first in the Court of Appeal for at least 2 years. To be elected judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, it is necessary to have the experience of working in a higher specialized court for at least five years. Fellows of most people, you understand very well that the quality of the judiciary and its professional level begin with the quality of justice and its independence. And in Ukraine alone, it is certainly possible for language disputes with the leaders of the opposition by the hands of the judges. Judge Kiriev, whose name is now known to the whole of Ukraine and abroad only, worked for 2 years in the District Court of Berezani and, at the stroke of the magic wand of the President's Administration, was transferred to the Pecher Court of the Capital to order a falsified case by Timoshenko. It's just nonsense. If this law is passed, it will never happen again, and Ukraine will never again have a fifth place in the European Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u205	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, since the committee has not considered it, are not obliged to make a statement to the head of the committee. I don't see him, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up. Please. Who's going to be the fatherland? Victor Terrence is handing over Sergey Soboljev, please. He'll be followed. "Our Ukraine" is defined. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u206	Mrs. Olena, I am very grateful that you tabled this bill. Because I would like to quote from this rostrum the final ruling of the Supreme Court, as far as Kiriev is concerned, because it's clear about Kiriev, but it's about another contender who's responsible for what he's making. I mean Mr. Wolf. Thus, the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, clearly states: "Decision of previous courts to cancel. And with regard to Vuka Sergija Vasilovich, according to the signs of the crime envisaged in the first part of article 375 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, to refer to a new court hearing by refusing the previous institutions to remove the Vuka criminal case." And who's the Wolf, I want to remind you. This is the righteous man who judged Lucenka, who had previously served as Judge of the Pecher Court, who put the land directly on the Boulevard in Odessa, and thus set aside dozens of plots of land in Odessa for the so-called business in a zone that is not allowed to be taken away. That's the kind of judge we get to make decisions about. That's why I'd like to thank you very much, and we need a clear filter on "driver," "waves" and other people who actually make decisions, not out of the rule of law, out of the law, but out of what direction they're given from the President's Administration and what policy orders they're going to execute. After such a bill, we will really see judges who will be responsible for the high word "Your Honor," and it will indeed be an honor for Ukraine to adopt the decisions that they will declare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u207	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u208	Vladimir Karpuk, please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u209	Yuri Carmazin. It will be followed by Victor Bondarenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u210	Yuri Carmazin. I'll take a joint position with Vladimir Karpuk. We support this bill. Moreover, this bill will make it impossible to do what is happening today. Well, think about it, a young girl comes along, her role is that she's from the Donetsk region, that she's from Anakiyovo, and she's in court now. I don't call her name. She's got a long life. Another man arrives and immediately takes the lead in another court. People are coming all over Ukraine anyway. This criminal occupation is ongoing. These "wolfs" that Sergey Sobolev was talking about, and when the trial was going on, I was speaking out of this high hall and saying it was the Wolf on the French boulevard in Odessa. He was the one who took that boulevard that no one thought of taking. And he was on the hook in this power. He was on the hook at the D.A.'s office. And that's why he was manipulated and executed by Yuri Lucenka. There was no such colossal judgment. That's why I think it's absolutely right for a judge of the High Court to make demands. It can only be a person who has been in judicial service for at least 7 years, of whom at least 2 in the capacity of the Court of Appeal. The same is true of the Supreme Court. No one can be appointed from the Supreme Court. You can't have a person who, all of a sudden, went through all the qualifications, who became a judge of the Constitutional Court, and then because she became a judge of the Constitutional Court, immediately put her in the Supreme Court. It was installed by the authorities. Now this bill removes these non-susceptors. This is why we and the National Deputy Karpuk support this bill, and the faction of "Our Ukraine" will also support it. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u211	I don't see Bondarenko Victor Viktorovich. Bully, please, a minute away from the group.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u212	Thank you. The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill because it's right. Indeed, the bill proposes to amend part four of article 26 and part three of article 31 and part two and article 39 of the law and to establish that the Court of Appeal consists of judges elected to the post of Judge on an indefinite basis, judges elected to the post of Judge for an indefinite period of not less than seven years, of whom at least two years are serving as Judge of the Court of Appeal. So, really, this bill sets clear rules, clear understanding, and, most of all, we hope that this will raise the profile of the Ukrainian court. That's why our MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u213	I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges on traineeships to take office as a basis. [[Project 9785]] Please vote. [[14:00:55]] For-154 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 4, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 93, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 9, Communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 4. I would like to announce two Acts amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on guarantees of the State's responsibility for the return of citizens' savings]] [[draft of the Pavlovsky National Deputies and the National Deputies Group, the draft of the People's Deputy, Peter Simonenko and the National Deputies Group]] Under the reduced procedure, there is a proposal. I would like to ask you for a summary procedure to support your consideration of the project. [[14:01:54]] For 232 Decision taken. The first bill will be followed by a report by the national MP, Andrew Pavlovsky. As for the second, Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev. Please, Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u214	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, the Fatherland faction is proposing a bill to guarantee the state's compensation for the loss of Ukrainian citizens' savings. I'd like to point out that from 1997 to 2011, the affected investors paid a little over 10 billion dollars. In order to be objective, it should be noted that more than 60 percent of this amount was paid according to the decisions of the government of Yulia Timoshenko, namely, over 6 billion dollars. That is, no president and prime minister to and after Julia Timoshenko could pay off even the grave after the death of the investor. And yet her government has paid off this so-called "Julina Thousand" to over 6 million citizens. The rest of the investors who have not received these funds should be thanked personally by Yanukovich and the Party of Regions, who blocked the corresponding revisions to the State Budget 2010, 2011 and 2012 respectively. If you look at these budgets, there's not a penny to pay off these compensations. Now, the faction of the Block of Timoshenko "The Fatherland" is proposing that at least 1 percent of the gross domestic product in the government budget per annuity to the loss of savings will be at least 6 billion dollars per year, and it will provide for this target, 50 percent of the privatisation, of the corporate rights of the state. And I would like to point out that "Julina's Thousand" in 2008 is not going to be the thousand Janukovic wants to give at the end of 2012. Because there was inflation, there was an increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u215	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u216	There's been a two-to-three increase in food prices for utilities. And you have to pay 2-2.5 thousand now, that's going to be fair and fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u217	I would like to invite Matthew Valentin Grigorovitch to report the author’s Bill Simonenka, Cybenka, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as we have been called upon to introduce Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko and Peter Stepanovich Cibenk, are already singing the proposed bill today. Unfortunately, and before that, it was not supported by the vast majority -- both then and now. As you know, according to the Ukrainian State Guarantees Act, which took effect, you know, as early as November 21, 1996, the State made a commitment to restoring the cost of savings and to making public spending on compensatory payments. [[It's on itself!]] What has been done in this direction over the past 16 years? Out of the total debt, that is nearly 132 billion dollars since 1997, only 10.6 billion dollars or 8 percent have been paid. Why is this happening? Above all, the lack of clear legal obligations affords the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the opportunity to plan and pay off the State’s debt obligations to its citizens for the remainder of the principle. In recent years, however, it has been impossible to ignore the cost. At the time of the adoption of the State Budget, you will recall that for this year the corresponding offer of the Communist faction was ignored here in Parliament. To date, therefore, there has been a need to make systematic changes to the Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens, as there are no legislative provisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u219	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u220	I'm done. And that's why we've proposed an appropriate mechanism for solving this problem, and specifically, we're proposing to make compensation each year, starting on July 1st this year at the expense of the state budget, and also at the expense of 50 percent of the revenue from the privatization of state property. And it's also proposed by the consent of Ukrainian citizens as a result of the humiliation that. As a result of the understatement of these savings, they were lost. This is primarily the case for disabled persons and pensioners, to make up for the loss of depreciation by means of cashless calculations. The adoption of such amendments to Ukraine's laws will create the conditions for resolving one of the most painful issues today: compensation to Ukrainian citizens for the loss of money savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u221	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, since the committee has not considered it, please sign up for the discussion. Show me, please. Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u222	Thank you. Of course, the bill that is being considered today, well, both bills, are very urgent. We are with you now, especially before the elections, and we hear that the issue is becoming relevant. People ask the question, when will our citizens get their savings back? But I'm surprised by some metamorphosis, because with regard to the Communist Party of Ukraine and its leader, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, volumes for every state budget in Ukraine, when we look at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we offer to acknowledge the debt owed to people by our nation's internal debt. We also propose that money be provided for these purposes by a single line of government budget in Ukraine. Unfortunately, you have to be honest, it's in opposition that you can do with eloquence, and in fact, they were in power -- they were asking the question. You've been asking that question! Only a thousand were given before the elections. Now in opposition, we raise questions. We consistently stand up for this position, so our leader and Valentin Grigorovich are the authors of the bill. In our meetings, people tell us, give us our blood money, give us our medicine because of the death of a daughter or a son or a loved one. You can't give away money, please make sure you can still buy medicine for treatment, do it in such a way that you can pay for residential services or pay for teaching children. Bankers can smile, even in times of crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u223	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u224	During the period of crisis and then they took advantage of the people, Ukraine’s government budget further diverted money.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u225	Thank you. I'd like to introduce you to Vladimir Kaplan. He will be followed by Stanislaw Argewittin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u226	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the MP's "For the Future Reform Group" has come up with that bill that we supported today in the hall. This is going to be Bill 9719-1. We think it's more solid, we think it's one that's more consistent with not only the rule of law, but the very spirit of the problem. I'd like us in this room to take down questions about the competition, who put more into or after the election campaign. I would like to remind, by the way, the previous speaker that justice is glad, a thousand Julians were opened immediately after the elections, not before them. But, you know, whatever we're doing, all the programs that we don't have to do to implement article 2 "The composition of Ukraine's national domestic debt", which is certainly accompanied by guarantees from the Ukrainian government to pay off the lost savings, all of these steps will be positive. The only thing that's quite slowly moving is something. 10 billion dollars and a total debt of 130 billion dollars, how many years do we have to pay it back? So I would like to point out that maybe before the second reading, this bill would be worth working on from the point of view of expanding the sources of these compensatory mechanisms to save targeted ones. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Leonidovich Tihypco is forming a working group today to look for sources to fund similar social initiatives, including, by the way, the initiatives to impose additional rents on natural fossils that are not taxed or served the state at all. The MP's "For the Future" group is ready to join this task force, ready to do whatever it takes to get Ukraine's additional savings. We will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u227	I invite Stanislav Arzevtin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by Jaroslav Suhi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u228	The Ukrainian authorities have repeatedly struck the population with confidence. The first is what we're talking about today, it's the SSR Savings. The second is inflationary undervaluation. The third is exchange rate fluctuations. And that's the part of the room that left behind now, and it's also a permissive fund to guarantee people's investments. What the Communists have said, do not take offense, but we understand that you are the one who registers the most. And if you ask the question in principle, you're in the coalition, you're in power today, you ask the question in principle, you say you're not going to vote with the regions for some laws, and you solve that question. But you want to talk, and you don't want to decide and talk about bankers. Next. Too bad the authorities didn't realize that the Ukrainians were responding to these challenges by removing 450 billion of them from legal circulation. Please tell me, can reforms be implemented in Ukraine without such a strategic investor as a Ukrainian investor? Impossible. Now I'm going to say a little bit more about the deposit guarantee fund, what I'm saying is you dropped it off. The president signed yesterday, and I was still hoping he'd leave the status of the State Department Guarantee Fund. Among other things, this text has removed the $150,000 guarantee to return to a bankrupt bank. You and I have sworn to the Ukrainians that this rule is guaranteed by the state. You deleted it from the text. And today, there's a rule: the guarantee fund sets itself up as it pleases. Count how much: for 200 billion today there are 5 billion deposits. That's what 2.5 percent of the coverage is? Please tell me what we're guaranteeing the Ukrainians today? Is that, say, a return to confidence in power, to economic reforms? I see that there is only a desire to talk about it. In these two bills, there is only one right norm: to accept government debt. And a dot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u229	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s National Deputy, Ukraine, has the right to use it as he deems necessary. You correctly said that it was a matter of his conscience, of his inner conviction, and he did not need to impose a certain point of view. Regarding the return of savings, the deputies who have been with me since the third call, remember, I was the head of the subcommittee, in my time of the Committee of Goszowski, through my hands, through my subcommittee, 28 of these options. I'm so sorry that we have to go back in this room and remind ourselves that we should all know and explain things to people. As of 1 January 1991, there was zero in the savings accounts of Ukraine, and the funds were written down in the Soviet Union's Savings. There was no savings in Ukraine. Taking on a commitment is not ours. You remember what happened next. In 1992 the so - called zero version was signed by the wise. And we got rid of assets abroad. Katerina Fomenko, a special temporary commission, was created, and here, from this rostrum, we were tearing down, decomposing, telling what had actually happened. Ukraine may take, it should take on an internal debt, but the funds we, Ukraine, are responsible for. We cannot be held accountable for the savings of the Soviet Union. We're not the successors of the Soviet Union, we're Russia. Once again, the negotiations with Russia ended in zero. Please tell me what it might lead to. They didn't finish, they put us in Yeltsin's place, I read the transcript that said we gave you Natzbank yours, you're with him. That's right. The amount of 121 billion you can't even take on an internal debt because it's hyperinflation. Such a step will inevitably bring disaster. Did we have a chance? Now I want to remind you all about 2005. 30 percent of deposits are deposits of up to 5,000 dollars. Simonenka, Cibenka, 2005 Where does that come from, out of $24 billion? We had to find 9 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u231	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Let's say the last sentence, because we're already going over the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u232	And we'd cover 30 percent. It was a real chance. A source of fulfillment. Only a highly efficient functioning economy and a state budget can fulfill our obligations. This bill is populist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u233	Thank you. "Paternality" insists for a minute? Don't insist. Vladimir Bondarenko, one minute, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u234	"Julia Timoshenko Block", Vladimir Bondarenko. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we should at least keep the rest of our morals in this room. So when the Communists come forward and tell us that they are fighting all the time, why did you not give this majority a vote for canceling the Cyprus offshore? Why have you spent most of these years solving your questions, and now you have a sharp insight? It's the same "cartoons," which, if you'll excuse me, have gone all the way under the other flags, and today, "chik-pike" solves their questions, and they've also become clear, praise Tihypak, who didn't pay up to 400 million by selling his bank. So is Cherniwiecki. Where are the sources? This is the man who waved his hand to remember how he showed up at the prosecutor’s office, as the Ukrainian industry was then decimated. That's where the money is. So he'll stop waving, go back to the D.A.'s office and write a warrant, and there'll be money to get people back. Or you're making assholes out of everyone else here, and you're gonna, you know, excuse me, keep scratching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-21-m0.u235	Let's put two bills to the vote. The first bill is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the guarantee of State responsibility and the return of citizens' savings]] [[9719]] The Andrew Pavlovsky project and the authors’ groups. Please vote. [[14:19:17]] For 128 And the bill on the same subject of a group of deputies, led by Peter Simonenko, please vote. Then I'll tell the factions. We're voting on the bill. [[14:19:44]] For 128 The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 80, Our Ukraine – 4, Communists – 24, People's Party – 0, Reforms – 17, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, since we have already adopted regulations, according to the Rules, the bill on the introduction of electronic money and the prevention of the creation of financial pyramids is referred to as the first issue tomorrow. We're shutting down today. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We're still working on committees and factions. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
