ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:19]] There were 412 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the outcome of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on June 23, 2012. Sixteen questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, two laws have been passed, and one law has been rejected. Dear National Deputies! Let us now consider the issues set out in the May 24 calendar. We need to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on further work on a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine (as regards the guarantee of immunity for individual officials). We have discussed this issue at the meeting, the honourable colleagues, the Conciliation Council, that we will today, on Thursday, adopt an appropriate draft decision as a verdict. You have it. It's sold out. No warning? [[B in m in s a l in]] What? [[B in m in s a l in]] I would then like to ask you, dear colleagues, to consider this question. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, calm down! I want to talk to you. To consider this question by a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's not a change! It's an organization that's working on this issue. It's not a change, please. I'm betting on a motion to vote: consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:04:18]] For 199 Decision taken. The committee will report to Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please. From the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u2	Dear voters, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for further work on the bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine on the guarantee of inviolability for individual officials, the draft decree has been drafted with a view to completing the constitutional procedure for the review of the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on guarantees of the inviolability of individual officials, [[Registration number 3251-p]] [[No. 3251]] I would like to remind you that on October 20, 2009, the bill was incorporated into the agenda of the fifth session of the Supreme Council and was sent to the Constitutional Court to reach an appropriate conclusion, on April 1, 2010, the Constitutional Court ruled that the bill was in conformity with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Legal Policy Committee on April 13, 21012, introduced a draft Ordinance on further work on the draft law. To date, the Supreme Council has not considered this issue, and the draft rulings have closed, and the Committee, at its meeting on 23 May, has reconsidered the issue of further work on the draft law and has tabled a draft regulation for Parliament, proposing to the Supreme Council new deadlines for the submission of proposals and amendments to the draft bill by 7 June, the processing of proposals by the Preparatory Committees of the Supreme Council and amendments by 22 June, the submission to the National Deputies of the necessary documents by 4 July, the consideration of the bill at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on 5 July 2012. Dear colleagues, this decree has changed only the terms, I've informed you of them. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, please support this draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sign up, dear colleagues, to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u6	It was from the committee that the report was. It's from the committee. Sergey Mishchenko, the "BUT" faction is "The Fatherland" and the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, where the draft decree was prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I want to say on behalf of the Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland" to remove all the insinuations on this issue that our faction will vote in full for the organization of the work of this bill's follow-up. But I want to explain to the MPs, the Ukrainian citizens, the journalists, what is the essence of the so-called removal of immunity from national MPs. All right, I got it. for your consideration of the article on the removal of parliamentary immunity. Ukraine’s national deputies cannot be brought into criminal custody without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What is proposed? Ukraine’s national deputy cannot be detained or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the validity of the indictment. So why don't you explain to me how a former investigator and prosecutor, what to do with a deputy killer who can't be apprehended or arrested in a previous investigation, who won't go into interrogation, how can he be removed from his parliamentary integrity? What kind of removal of parliamentary immunity are you talking about? We're the purity of the experiment, our faction, voting for it. But don't talk about removing the MP's in touch with that. Why? Because I'm confident that when our bill is registered, where there is no concept in the Constitution of any kind of parliamentary or any kind of immunity from the President or the judges, then we will see how really Parliament and most will vote that there is no such thing as untouchable and untouchable in our country. That's why we're going to support it. But do not mislead society and Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u8	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ruslan Knazevich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u9	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! When it came to using financial and economic terminology, it was time to pay for the bills, I mean for the political notes, for the commitment of my constituents. In fact, all the political forces represented in Parliament the idea* of elections, promised at least two moments: the first, the abolition of the benefits to the MPs, all talked about it, regardless of the colour of the party flags. But unfortunately, to the profound regret of the faction of the opposition of BUT, the front of some, they did not vote in favour of abolishing the benefits. The Party of the Regions voted, we denied the benefits of deputies for free apartments, we cancelled free travel, we cancelled free travel, we cancelled material assistance. We are clean in front of the electorate, we have paid the bill of engagement, unfortunately the BUIT did not vote in favour of abolishing the benefits to the MPs - we did not vote. We are now in line with the second commitment, the abolition of parliamentary integrity, the same promise we have made to everyone, but it has been practically sabotaged for several months in the sessional room, a delay not to be put on the agenda. It is only through the active position of the Party of the Regions and the majority coalition faction that the draft regulation, which represents a road map, has today been put on the agenda by the adoption of the Law on the lifting of parliamentary integrity. I hope that at the final stage, not today, at the final stage, the opposition will not get their hands on the opposition, as they did when the benefits were lifted when they did not vote yes, and they lied to their constituents – they did not vote in favour of abolishing the benefits. It is our hope that they will not have a hand today, and they will still vote in the final stage. We propose to vote on this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u10	Ruslan Knazevich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u11	Dear Head, dear colleagues, we're about to cancel. Do we have a language? What bill? You can read the title of the bill: guarantees of inviolability for individual officials with regard to increasing immunity for those officials who are concerned. I don't know what we're talking about. There's no point in even having this discussion. Because in fact, this bill really creates an additional barrier to undoing inviolability, and in no way frees you from inviolability. But that's not what this is about. This is about the fact that yesterday, unanimously, the Committee on Legal Policy defined such a procedure as provided for in the Constitution, and the main one is the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. The outcome and outcome of the discussion of the question of July 5th should be in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure Act to refer the bill to a new drafting for the conclusion of the Constitutional Court rather than to Parliament. If such a procedure is violated, dear colleagues, it means nothing more than a deliberate violation of the constitutional procedure in order to then, through the Constitutional Court, repeal the bill, and as a phenomenon, the inviolability to leave forever in Ukrainian realities. That's what we need to talk about, not blasphemy in the rostrum. That's why we support this kind of procedure because it fits the Constitution. If anyone wants to make an amendment or even consider it as the Constitution does, we will be telling the truth, not letting you lie to people about how you genuinely care about them from the rostrum of parliament throughout Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Yes, the factions of "BUT" - "Fatherland" have never spoken. Please, no, I'm sorry, Mishchenko was speaking. He's not from the committee. Dear colleagues! Please. George Miroshnichenko spoke from the committee. Please, one minute, Cosemiakin. Then Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! Well, you've noticed that this is a chronic disease that begins to manifest itself just before the election, yes. It's a normal process, it's the signs of an election. It's the touchiness of the Party of Regions and the language that we see today in the upper room. Dear colleagues! Our faction will support this decision. That's the first one. The other one. Our faction, in contrast to the inviolability of all who, according to the Constitution, have this privilege today. This is the President, this is the judge and this is the deputy. Our faction, together with the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", gathered 153 signatures of the National MPs to introduce an alternative bill that will be registered today, as Vladimir Mikhajlovich Litwin promised us, now, in 10 minutes, to remove the inviolability of all those who have a degree of legal immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u14	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u15	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters! I would like to remind you that before the 2007 elections, these populist statements were used by the nastiests who shouted at every corner, that they would remove the integrity. And I warned you then that this is a lie, that these willful statements are populist only for one purpose, to draw your attention. Five years have passed, nothing has changed or changed! It's another lie. The Company's faction will vote in favour of this project. But I would like to draw your attention to your distinguished colleagues that I have already written to all of you in writing last year, please let us formulate proposals to amend the Constitution, to withdraw the integrity and thus not before the elections, but in two years' time, to resolve this issue and to remove these populist, non-necessary statements. None of you have been able to respond to this appeal and none of you have been able to respond two years ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u16	Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u17	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to remind those with a memory that the faction of the Party of the Regions and our factions from the faction have registered this bill while we were still in opposition. And we are consistently moving towards the adoption of the Law on the Deprivation of Deputies in the form in which it exists. With regard to the title of the bill, yes, it remains within a certain framework of this inviolability and is prescribed by the bill that exists, but this is part of the European rules for the adoption of the instrument. Now, with regard to the law that you're trying to deceive people, that you're registering a new bill that will remove all integrity from both the President and the judiciary and the MPs. If you do not want to deceive people, register three laws. And let's take down our own parliamentary integrity, what can really happen now, and then you will fight for what the Constitutional Court has said, that it is impossible to do under the procedure that you are trying to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u18	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u19	. As part of the procedure that you're trying to carry out, which, you know in advance, you're not going to be able to do, and you're deceiving everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u20	Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, well, please. Ruslan Knyazevich came out. I want to say again, Ruslan Knyazevich has spoken, there is no word. Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I want to do it again. Let's see how many people are on the board. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? What, five factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u21	What time is it?Oh, my God! There's no minute! Well, wait! There's no time! There isn't! Well, if you want to rip it off.Oh, my God! Well, please! Come on, let's go! () Knyazevich has spoken! [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you want?Oh, my God! The prince has spoken! Yes, Mishchenka came out, but you insisted, so you were given a minute! () [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, talk!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I want to correct what Mr. Ephraim has said. The point is, on October 20, 2009, Mr. Lavrinovich said, according to his transcript, the following things. "There must be no person, no man who is freed from the enforcement of Ukrainian laws." This bill stipulates that whether a person is elected as president of Ukraine or elected as a national deputy or as a court judge, the law of Ukraine is mandatory for all. Mrs. Herman says, at this very session, "It's only fair today to put all the Presidents, judges and deputies equal before the law." And you're lying!() [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u23	Let's go to Ephraim now. Dear colleagues! You're all looking for a reason, on the left, on the right to block the work. Come on, block it! Well, what do you want?Oh, my God! () [[B in m in s a l in]] You're looking. Please! If you don't understand something, shut up! Please, Ephraim, a replica. Don't call me names!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, you scream, that means you're wrong. You're afraid to hear another point of view. Yes, and at that time and today we stand in that position, but we have come this way. And you don't tell people that there is a Constitutional Court decision on the President. And if you write a bill now and send it to the Constitutional Court, you will get the same decision that blocks the further advancement of the law that you are trying to adopt. So I didn't go into personalized insults, but what I'm trying to say is that you're lying to people -- that kind of question. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! Question completed. Why are we taking this decision right now? The committee had prepared a decision earlier on which other dates were scheduled to prepare for the consideration of this issue, if I am not mistaken, in April. In view of the fact that there was a need to finalize the draft ruling on objective grounds when the Supreme Council did not work, they changed the relevant dates in order to comply with the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Constitutional Court’s explanation of the drafting of constitutional bills. As far as alternative or other draft laws are concerned. When the representatives of the two factions collected 154 signatures, well, there were also other MP groups, we couldn't register it until the decision was made. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes a decision now, then there will be an opportunity to register your proposals, 150 signatures will be required for any amendment to the bill. Now there's 154. So there is no problem for further work. So, reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u26	So I'm telling you, you're making your own project -- 154, and to make any amendment, you also have to have 150 votes. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for a Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 3251-P, for further work on legislation to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. [[on guarantees of inviolability for individual officials]] All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[10:23:31]] For 384 Decision taken. The factions. The Party of Regions – 187, "BUT - "Patkaščina" – 92, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 39, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 39, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, non-fractional – 19. Dear colleagues, we need to consider draft regulations for holding parliamentary hearings. A draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings on "Preventing the Destruction of the Historical Architectural Heritage of the capital of Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10410]] I'm voting on a motion to review this document with a reduced procedure. It's an installation document, so here. Please vote. [[10:24:36]] For 216 Decision taken. The reporter is John the Rabbit, co-reporter Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u27	Dear National Deputies! Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. In recent times, the destruction of the natural environment and of historical sites in Ukrainian cities has become explosive. Far from being an example, on the left of Parliament a so - called helipad for the President of Ukraine appeared on the site of green plantings that attached the Dnieprova slopes. The Kyiv authorities have plans to build all these slopes. Historical buildings are being destroyed from the appearance of the reconstruction of the Andrivian estuary, and the historic landscapes of this beautiful area of Kiev are changing. Examples of barbaric destruction of green crops and cultural and historical heritage are numerous. All of this leads to the fact that our cities, even ancient cities like Kiev, are rapidly losing their historical face and deteriorating living conditions. The capital of Ukraine has become a site of constant opposition from citizens and local authorities. We must stop this barbaric activity of power. We, a group of deputies from the Ukrainian People's Party: I, Yuri Kostenko, Jaroslav Georgiev, propose to hold parliamentary hearings to prevent the destruction of the historic architectural heritage of the capital of Kiev. Parliamentary hearings are the best place to make the necessary decisions. In particular, because it was the Supreme Council that opened all the locks to destroy the nature of the historical heritage when it passed the Law on Urban Activities. Let me remind you that this law has destroyed the Institute of Environmental Experts and the Institute of Archaeology. Then I suggested that you do not accept this law, but you did not listen to my suggestions, although I held you until midnight when I was considering the law in the second reading. Why don't you listen to our suggestions today? We have one capital, Kiev has one, let's solve the Kiev issues, let's solve the other cities. And one thing for the project itself. It's about May 23rd. We are already late, and we can choose a different date, but we must spend time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u28	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u29	Respectable sneezes and not just sneezes! Dearly beloved electors! Unfortunately, the capital city of our state, the city of Kiev, has become, indeed, the arena, the main arena of actual struggle with all that has acquired the Ukrainian people for centuries. I'm going to remind you of the colossal passions that have been fueled by Andriev's embroidery today -- a unique place that, if it had gotten to the Americans, they would have kept it like a pupil of the eye: every stone, every brick, the spirit of this street. You know very well that the Chinese were able to stop. Because of their activity to stop the high house of Ahemtova at Andriyev, where there should be different restaurants and entertainment shares and so on. You know, recently we've literally learned that Park Road is actually a holy place, a national reserve, is the Dniprov slopes and the Trans-Prov valleys, where no one has the right to kick a shovel. We've recently learned that the entire land on the Park Road has actually been sold. In addition to the helicopter site, there'll be not only helicopters, but whole complexes will be both restaurants and saunas, and so on. Because of that. These examples can continue and continue, as ruined by the high buildings of the center of Kiev, the unique center of Kiev. Because of the question raised by George Costenko, John the Rabbit, to discuss, to draw the attention of Ukrainian society to this, is extremely relevant. The committee unanimously, unanimously, supported and asked the Supreme Council to decide on a date, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to be completely realistic and to discuss in public, with broadcasts, to discuss the issue publicly. The committee supports and requests that you vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please state the names of the national MPs. Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Viacheslav Kirilenko, Sergey Sobolev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u31	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, we now have the Ukrainian capital, but it is already carved. There's a city head who's getting married somewhere, remarrying, doesn't run the capital. And there's a head of administration who's following the President's orders. There will be elections someday, but they will essentially choose an official to follow the President's orders, not a city head. There is no self - government in the Ukrainian capital, even though it has been in the 15th century. But the Ukrainian capital is being destroyed -- something is already known. The language is being destroyed throughout the country. Now, people need to know, already all the fighters of the Party of Regions in their places, ready for action and fighting, they already found voices, I'm telling people that they're watching and listening now, and they want to push, push, push, push through the law on the destruction of Ukrainian language to destroy all Ukrainian, and capital, and architectural heritage, and language, and people who live in this Ukraine for the first time. So I turn to those who care about this situation, who feel anxious that for the first time in 20 years of independence in this room, the legislative destruction of the Ukrainian language will begin in full seriousness. All people who don't care about this question, go to the Supreme Council now! Because they were planning to look at it at night, and now the voices are, they want to run now. Know this, people of good, respected Ukrainians! And I'm addressing Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin as a statesman as a historian. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, you have a good political experience of knowledge and understanding of the matter. Do not allow yourself to consider this question, which does not have any positive conclusions from any European institution. And those who were drawn in Ukraine were already disassociated, for they were not even made by scientists, but by prophets. Therefore, it is not possible to consider this question today. Let's not let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u32	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." The next is Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u33	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, every good and bad thing has its own author, the one who designed it and carried it out. And when we look at Kiev today and remember what he was like 10 years ago, it's scary. The “monsters ” over Dniprom appeared, buildings that closed Sofia Kyivsky, disappeared the first in the Russian Empire, the first plumber on the shore of Dniper, disappeared, or actually sold the Alexivian Lounet, the Mikil Gates, those remarkable monuments of history that in time decorated the Kiev, which are on the ancient Chinese postcards. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that each time these actions take place at night, usually on a New Year's Eve, two such incidents were, and in other such dark times. As thieves do, as criminals do, so does the one doing it. Who are the authors? Ask who now owns the buildings that appeared in the coastal area where there was once a swamp. There's this one Deputy Prime Minister. Or who built that monster at the doorbell? There's the largest faction here that tells how good it is, and so does the author. There are today those who destroyed and also in this faction are all the systems of fortification structures that were once in Lavra’s territory. So what I'm trying to say is that all of these people aren't cynics. They either came from a place where, unfortunately, only tericons in the countryside are not their fault, and so was politics. And today, none of them on the shore of Dniper took any of those factories that kicked and watered every defilement of territory and turned it into a beautiful cat. They're just destroying what's old. Therefore, I offer these hearings to be held, to make a board of Chinese elders to protect the territory and without their decision, no project would be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u34	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I support the idea, because on the way to work in the Supreme Council from the left bank on Patton Bridge, we can see how we have mutilated and continue to mutilate the architecture of the Cave Mountains. As well as the shrines that the world knows about, some have grown up to be a work of architecture. The time will come, we'll find out who gave the "good" who got the "good" big money for it. But so far, the city's center is debilitating. The division is mutilated. And look at the area of Besarabka, the street of the Forest of Ukraine -- it's just total fascicles. What an architecture. And what will we boast of our guests who will come to the Euro-2012? But the practice of holding parliamentary hearings here in the session room tells us what this is about -- it's nonsense and nobody needs it. And the effect is zero. I propose that the authors have the determination to hold such hearings at an extended session of the committee with the involvement of activists, especially with the involvement of our architectural science so that we can have a concrete, real, professional, non-emotional example of what is going on and what needs to be done to stop this process. So I suggest that we hold such hearings, not in the hall, but in an extended session of the profiling committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u36	Peter Simonenko. Then Oleg Lazko. Then there's Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u37	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the legitimate outcome of when nationalists are in power. They have adopted the capital of Soviet Ukraine with the entire architectural complex in integrity and security. For 20 years in power in the city of Kiev, they began to destroy the architectural complex, bringing all those in power today in Kiev. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a legitimate result of a policy of small value that nationalists have imposed on us in Ukraine over the past 20 years. You'll notice, they're not upset that there's no Ukrainian on Krestatika, there's all the advertising and all the hangings, so to speak, in a foreign language. And they are silent about it, not saying that it was their policies that destroyed the Ukrainian language of their homeland. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that oligarchic capital is destroying the values, traditions and acquisitions of the Ukrainian people. It is the oligarchic capital that seeks to obtain overpriced, which is the result of that policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko, then Vitaly Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I support the idea of holding parliamentary hearings, "Prevention of the destruction of the historical and architectural heritage of the capital of Ukraine", namely, parliamentary hearings, not committee hearings, because in Parliament the whole of Kiev, Ukraine will hear what is happening, and in committee it will be a silence. Sadly, today’s authorities in Kiev, the regional authorities, have done more harm to Kiev than Khan Batieu’s troops than the Tatars, is worse than the Tatars now in Kiev. It's time to try and raise your hand on the Andrivian Belt. It's time to forget the god. It's time to forget the story. And on the bottom of the Provost slopes near the Supreme Council, thousands of people came every day to see our powerful, roaring Dnipro. What do we see today instead of Dniper? The glass that was built is a helipad for Yanukovic. When I, God willing, win the election of Mayor Kiev. I'm gonna take this helipad down, and people are still out there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u40	Vitaly Kurilo, please, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of Reforms for the Future will support this decision. That's why we think it's relevant enough and we all have to understand that Kiev is not just the capital of Ukraine, but it is the capital of all Eastern Europe. And its architectural style is the acquisition of not only the Ukrainian people, but also all the Slovenian peoples. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that cities and niche Ukrainians need the same protection. And we need to improve legislation that would prevent the destruction of architectural monuments in Ukraine. This issue has become a very acute issue in the last decade, and we need new legislation very much and very much. So we will support the proposal to listen to this question with the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Before placing 2 motions on the vote, I ask the author of the draft regulation. First offer. Enter the exact date, instead of May 23, which is missing, of course, to set June 20. Next. Specify the name. We were here to consult at the Presidium. Not "Prevention of the destruction of the historical and architectural heritage of the capital," but simply referred to traditionally, perhaps in a cross-cutting way, "The state and immediate measures of preservation of the historical and architectural heritage of the capital of Ukraine," it would sound more clear. No objections? Taking these details into account, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree. [[Registration number 10410]] Please vote. [[10:40:45.]] For-162 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u43	The factions? Please. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u44	There's no motive. Region Party 2, "BUT" – "Batkashtina" – 91, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 44, communists – 0, self-defence – 44, Communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 16, non-fractional – 9. Then let's make this decision -- commission the committee to hold committee hearings and assign a committee, and ensure that the committee hearings are given the necessary publicity. What? The committee is not sitting in the session room. Is there no objection to such an assignment? Thank you. Well, you can't go to the session room. Well, wherever you want, you'll be there. Cosub, please. And now we need to take another look at the question of parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the honorable presidency, is an offer to work today to complete the consideration of the issues scheduled for the plenary session of the Supreme Council on May 24, 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to take offense at me, but I'm putting this motion to a vote -- to continue the evening session until the end of the discussion of the issues set out on the 24th of May. Please vote. [[10:42:33]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 180, BUT – Fatherland, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 0 Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, Reforms for the Future – 3, non-fractional – 11. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Ukrainian Book: The Realities of Today and the Prospects for the Development of National Bookkeeping and Distribution" is being announced for consideration. [[July 4, 2012]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Even better, if you, your honourable colleagues, immediately voted and made a decision on this matter. On one condition, you'll support it. Well, it's absolutely necessary. If you support me, I'm voting for a decision, registration number 10448. Please vote. [[10:43:42]] For 342 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 183, "BUT - "Patkashtina" – 60, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 21, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-fractional – 16. Dear colleagues! We need to take a decision on the recognition of such that it has become invalid, a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of the position of the official of the authorities of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office and a description of this certificate, [[Registration number 10498]] I'm voting on a motion for a ruling. Take off the vote, please. Please. Huh? I thought that was a technical question. Well, please, calm down. Dear colleagues, since the language was here, I thought it was a technical question. We don't have the Presidency of the Supreme Council, it can't confirm anything. But please, let's consider if there is such an insistence under a reduced procedure. Please vote. Short-term, please. [[10:45:19]] For 216 Decision taken. Please, Emilianova Inna Ivanovna, First Deputy Minister of Justice. Then he will be speaking from the committee head of the committee, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the recognition of such a decision, which has ceased to be valid in the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "On the approval of the position of the official of the Office of the Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine and a description of this certificate." It should be noted that article 55 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act clearly states that the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine approves the office of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Prosecutor's Office and his model. Until now, however, the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Presidency, which approved the model of the office of the prosecutor’s office, is valid. And this was adopted back in 1991. The pattern of a service licence approved is outdated and does not take into account the current possibilities of document protection against counterfeiting and misuse. The adoption of the decree of the Supreme Council in conjunction with the relevant decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, and I would like to point out that the Cabinet has taken the appropriate decision on 10 May of this year, and the Cabinet of Ministers' ruling will take effect at the same time as the approval of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Bureau, which approves the appointment of the official of the Prosecutor's Office. Request to support the specified decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u48	Victor Dmitrovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u49	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In this case, we're looking at a very technical question, rather than a classical pattern of corruption, which is to be sanctified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and a little bit later, I'm going to explain the point. But I'm up to standard first. Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council, which is professional in this matter, not only did not consider this issue, but the draft of this regulation, and this draft has not even yet reached the Committee in order to be considered by it in the established Rules of Procedure. In this regard, it is totally illegal to consider the matter without consideration and conclusions of a profile committee. Therefore, I believe that those who have placed this issue in the order of the day have grossly violated the requirements of the Rules. Now it's about corruption. I will tell you that after this consideration, as a member of the National Anti-Corruption Committee, I will certainly send a letter to the head of the National Anti-Corruption Committee, Janukovic, so that he can immediately deal with the corruption in the Ministry of Justice. Tell me, please, who's got 20 years of certification on his mind. The officials of the public prosecutor's office were all satisfied, and the government must now confirm the model and certification of the prosecutor's office, the very government body that was overseeing the institution. Including the government. Dear colleagues, there will be a new law on the Public Prosecutor's Office in the first reading, and it says that "a description and an example of the certification of the Public Prosecutor's Office is approved by the Attorney General." A draft of the new Law on Public Prosecutions will be introduced on the day, and there is also no rule that stipulates that the government approves the position and model of the certificate. As a result, I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Mikola Janovich! Please call off this corruption project immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u50	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u51	Which you've been promoted to the Ministry of Justice. Nearly 15,000 certificates will have to be issued at the expense of the state. These funds could be sent to needy people — disabled people, veterans. And prosecutors can absolutely satisfy themselves with what they have. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u52	If you want to make a statement, please write it down. Kirilenko Viacheslav
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u53	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Certificates for prosecutors and prosecutors are very important issues, and these issues need to be addressed. But voters do not yet know that they are expected to receive all the certificates, all government officials throughout Ukraine. Why? Because most people today want to extend the new Language Law. And the law states that all the certificates are filled in Ukrainian and regional. And there are 18 regional languages! So, honourable Ukrainians, prepare billions of your pockets to change your licenses to everyone: the prosecution, the courts, the deputies, the Kabminu, the local government, the governors and all the Ukrainian citizens, because this applies, this is the norm, all the documents. Everyone's going to be replacing passports, everyone's going to be replacing the testimony and all the testimony that testifies to the person, because now most people, on the unknown occasion, are introducing a law that requires billions of dollars of expenses just for that, that's just one question for you. So now in the audience, there's a poster that says, "Do the deed, not the language!".. And we fully support it. Pensions are nothing, people have nothing to live for, living minimum is under 10 times, wages are low.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u54	Yes, by subject, Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u55	Adam Ivanovich, on the subject, is a matter of both the prosecutions and the certificates and the Supreme Council. Money is gone, people are suffering, and today the Language Law is being extended, which requires billions of dollars for its implementation. So what we're going to do is we're going to look at Parliament's leadership, or we're going to take this issue off the table, and we're going to talk about the language, because it's causing an uproar in society, among the public, it needs billions of dollars to be implemented, and it doesn't serve as a solution to social issues for every single person in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u56	Oily Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions will support the adoption of this decision, because the question is not only about technical things, but about legality. Well, how can there be a certificate that is approved by an organ that is no longer in nature? This is the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that is why there is the Prosecutor’s Office Act, article 55, which clearly regulates that the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine approves the office of the prosecutor’s official’s office and his model. As this issue will be settled in the new Procurator's Act, we will probably need to see that as many other bodies as possible have no relation to the organizational work of the Public Prosecutor's Office, perhaps indeed, an example should be approved by the Attorney-General, but this is a matter of the future bill and the future Prosecutor's Act. In this respect, I see that we should not allow any doubt in Ukraine as to the legality of the prosecution's actions, including the presentation of the identity of a person authorized on behalf of a state to respect the rule of law, to demand respect for the rule of law in the state. And I think it just had to be done before that and not waste any time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we're in vain of politicizing a question that is totally non-political. First. What my colleague Oliynik said. An organ such as the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not exist under the Constitution, there is no such body. And most importantly, the 55th article cited in the law, the law in force in the Public Prosecutor's Act, says that the model of certification is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Another point was that the change to this article was made back in 2001 and, unfortunately, no one was paying attention to it until now. That's bad. That's why I'm putting to the vote a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recognition of such a loss of validity, a decree of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of the Office of the Prosecutor's Office's Office, and a description of this certificate. [[Registration number 10498]] Please vote. [[10:54:59]] For 255 Thank you. It's been decided. Write out a certificate. Let's go to the chapter on inclusion in the agenda of the session. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Approval of the President of Ukraine's Decision to admit the forces of other States to Ukraine's territory in 2012 for participation in multinational military training. Registration number 10488. Shall we vote? Yeah, who's up for it, and it's up to you anyway. Yes, please, who's from the committee? Anatoly Stepanovich, ready? - A grizzly from the committee. Please. Grizzenco, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, this document, which is adopted every year, approves the President's decision to allow foreign troops to conduct military training in Ukraine. The committee considered the bill. And with one "against", the rest recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a whole. Well, more or less, put it in the agenda. Without military training, an army that does not fight, and the glory of a god who does not fight, there is no other way to support himself in a fighting state. Please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u60	Please sign up for the performance. Yes, please, Karpuk, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u61	Pass it to Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u62	On the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u63	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, I always vote in favour of allowing teaching departments here, because our army needs to learn, and for sending them to perform peacekeeping functions. And even here I sometimes debate with my colleagues who don't always agree with me. And now I'm going to vote. Because I support our Armed Forces and our army, and all who serve Ukraine. But I have a question: What people will be protected by the Ukrainian army? What nation will be left after this majority today implements this new Language Law? There's an army in Russia, there's a Russian language in Russia, there's a Russian language in Russia, there's a border that this army is protecting. And he even protects his fellow countrymen abroad. This is the law such a Doom has passed. Where are their compatriots? And they end up where the Russian language ends, according to the Russian Federation. That is, in Ukraine their compatriots, both in Kazakhstan and in Turkmenistan and in Azerbaijan, around their compatriots. And this army is operating under this legislation. What is happening to us? Today, a knife is offered in the back of the Ukrainian language to destroy it. Most people have found votes to make this decision and have put their fighters to death. Who, then, will be protected by the Ukrainian army?Oh, my God! Where will these Ukrainians be? Where will our compatriots be when they are taken today after taking money, savings, housing, property, everything?Oh, my God! Now they want to rip the heart out, they want to rip the heart out with meat, and they want to take the language. Who will this army protect? Then we have to go logically and ask questions about the army, about sovereignty, and about independence. Because it turns out that this authority doesn't need independence or sovereignty. Because they don't understand that language, it's not just sounds, it's an integration function, it's what unites people into nations. Let us not allow this law to be passed!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u64	Pauline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u65	Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party. Please pass the word to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u66	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u67	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian army will protect the Ukrainian people. Both left and right, and screams, and peaceful people, and constructive and destructive. Well, they all are, they're all part of the nation, different people, different representatives of the people. But the people alone are the Ukrainian people, as enshrined in the Constitution. And thank God he's alone. And that's why we need to help the institution that protects the Ukrainian people. And this institution is the Ukrainian army. I don't know powerful armies that don't teach. Well, there's no such thing. It's just that in some countries, I don't want to call them that don't cooperate. Those who have no ties with other countries in terms of military cooperation. Ukraine has done enough and conducts and conducts, and I hope it will pursue a policy of military and technical cooperation. There's no war. Then there must be training. There will be fine training, there will be no war. So I don't think we need to politicize this topic, because you can certainly talk about the army, start with all kinds of problems, and talk about all kinds of problems. But when it comes to a specific question, I think everyone needs to support it if that question is in our national interest. The People's Party faction will support multilateral, bilateral, all the teachings that will strengthen the Ukrainian army that will protect the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u68	Petruk, please be with you for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, these trainings have been conducted in Ukraine since 1993, they are conducted literally every year and are absolutely beneficial to our Armed Forces. Our soldiers, our sergeants, our officers especially learn not only from themselves, they learn from other armed forces, and this is a good thing for our state, for the prestige of our state. I propose that we all fully support this bill, vote for it, and not put obstacles on it, because in July these teachings should begin. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u70	Chaplain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u71	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this ruling, the draft of this law, based on the following. In fact, today, especially after hearing the parliamentary hearings on the state and prospects of the development of the military organization and the security sector of Ukraine, you and I clearly see that the situation in the Armed Forces is far from comforting. But there's this saying, "You want peace, get ready for war." Without training, I support my colleague Zarubinski, nothing can be done. So it's a normal procedure to maintain the viability of the Armed Forces, which was worked far before, and it has nothing to do with modern Ukraine, it's a normal practice. Based on the reasoning that there is no political engagement here, which our colleagues have talked about here, and in fact we have a range of cooperation with the Russians, with the Belarusians, with the Americans, and these four teachings that we approve are in principle in favour of, we support 19 votes. We think we shouldn't make it out of this political and whatever, you know, fixation on our state and on our Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u72	Chechtev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u73	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The first speaker from the opposition spoke on an incomprehensible basis. By another law, he used time for two minutes. And I drew attention as soon as he finished speaking, and I finished speaking, and the press hung up the slogan, "Do your job, do your job, do your job!" Thanks to the press, they're the ones who hung your slogan right now! Do not talk, but do business, but the law of another. Now for the language. There will be a law, but it says in white, "The language of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations of the Ukrainian state!" At least read it, yeah. And third. With regard to joint exercises. We do not join NATO in principle, as joining NATO amounts to the loss of sovereignty. This participation in joint exercises is, yes, we show that we are an independent State that participates in peacekeeping operations and that the State that participates in all national interests is not indicated by anyone, yes. Thank you, yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u74	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the President's Order states that the financial and material and technical provision of multinational military training will be carried out in Ukraine not only at the expense of the state budget, but also at the expense of international assistance. However, the explanatory note notes that the financial cost of these trainings in Ukraine is expected to be carried out within the limits set out in 2012 by the Ministry of Defence. This raises the question, though. How much tax will the Ukrainian taxpayer have to pay for such training? It is well said that training is needed for the army. But above all, such teachings must be carried out within the State. And what's more, the results forecast says that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u76	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u77	I'm done. Allow increased financial revenues to the national economy through the provision of goods, jobs, services to foreign branches. So how much will we still make in the course of these studies, and how much will the state spend?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u78	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2012 for participation in multinational military training. [[Registration number 10488]] [[11:06:26]] For 324 Questions in the agenda are included. There's already a committee here, so let's go after the evening session, and we'll look at it. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 9127]] Shall we discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u79	Yeah. Second reading, Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u80	The point is, dear colleagues, I'll explain the situation. The second reading is usually automatically included in the agenda of the daily session, as provided in the Rules. But when we approved the order of the day session, when we approved the order of the day session for the tenth session, we deliberately did not include this bill in the list of bills that are ready, based on what you know, that in the Final Positions of this bill there were changes to two dozen laws concerning social benefits. Since the committee is now proposing because the committee is now proposing to consider only the first part of the bill, that is to say, the decision of the courts must be implemented. And the final positions, which are already regulated by the Constitutional Court's decision, by the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, and by the laws governing the State budget, will come out of this second reading. That's why we have to include it in this key when we include it. Once again, I emphasize, without the End of the line, and I am quite technical about the decision of the courts to be made. Did I say that? Yes, I'm voting on the proposal to include a bill in the agenda of the day session.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u81	I asked if there would be a discussion, you kept your mouth shut. Sign up. Don't sleep. It's not my fault you're sleeping. Yes, please, Stishenko. Get ready, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u82	Oleni Juryovni Šustik, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u83	Shustik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u84	Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Dear colleagues, the "BUT" faction called on you not to return the sad and heartwarming bill on State guarantees for the execution of court decisions to the session hall. Because actually the first part Adam Ivanovich said does not really provide a basis for 100 percent execution of court decisions. Those mechanisms that are built there just won't let you do that. But today's government is working on the motto, "I see the goal, I don't see the obstacles." Not long ago, former military officials, the Chernobylites, the children of war, were promised no social guarantees, guarantees that you promised and that led you to power. In fact, a bill that is prepared for second reading is harder and worse than its previous version. First. The decision of the courts to raise funds for the benefit of the people will, at best, begin with January 2013. Because it is legally binding on an existing law to optimize the size of public social guarantees, taking into account the revenue of the state budget, but not before January 1, 2013. The other one. As long as there is no law on optimizing the size of all social guarantees and how they are paid, Kabmin will still set up within the state budget. Under the constant budget deficit, it is for the citizens of Ukraine that they can imagine the size of these payments. What we fought against, what we struggled against. And the third. People will be set a time frame -- three months and one month -- to submit implementing documents according to decisions of the courts that were taken in a year or two or three to five before this law takes effect. Whoever didn't make it, somebody's late. If a person fails to submit a document in a timely manner, the court’s decision is automatically considered to have been executed. Nonsense. Pensioners, Chernobylites, children of war, and other socially vulnerable citizens are simply being thrown away. And in general, these categories are 28. Dear regions, is that what you imagine Ukraine is for people? Surrender! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u85	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Get Carpuku ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u86	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The draft Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments really caused a negative resonance in society, because this law just takes away virtually all the benefits in our disadvantaged people, in those categories that deserve social guarantees. Of course, this law, even in the form that it is now being submitted to the Supreme Council for second reading, does not guarantee the execution of court decisions, because now millions of court decisions concerning children of war concerning Chernobyl, other categories, are being ignored. And this is confirmed by valid legislation, including the State Budget Act 2012. Although Adam Ivanovich explained that there would be no End Positions, the proposed option is, and there is a reference to some non-existent law on the optimization of social benefits and guarantees. So, optimization, I repeat in this room once again, once the word "optimisation" is used in terms of education, schools in the village are closed; once the medical industry is optimized, the district hospitals and the FAP are closed. So if we now include this bill in this way, the optimisation of the benefits and guarantees will result in their elimination. That's why I think I'm proposing not to vote for this castle. For the inclusion of this bill and to recast it and submit it to the first reading, as indeed a law guaranteeing the State to enforce its decisions without any final clauses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u87	Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u88	Vladimir Karpuk. Please give Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u89	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition I'll have a joint opinion with Vladimir Karpuk on the provisions of this law. If in two words, not improvement today, not yesterday, but a major deterioration can bring about this law, in two words. In principle, there has already been a statement here by colleague Helen Shustik concerning the anti-national nature of this law, which is horrified today by all Ukrainian citizens, because number 9127 knows both the Chernobyls and the children of war, and the veterans of military service, and the veterans of service in the organs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs or BSS and in other organizations. Everyone knows about this sad law 9127. And not by chance, Adam Ivanovich, did you say today that part of it is not counted, part is not counted, but how do you do it now? In principle, the person who introduces such a bill 9127 was to be shot, but since it is the Prime Minister who represents a slightly different state here, he is obviously not going to do so. I'd like to warn you about the inclusion of this law, because look at the observations of the scientific and expert administration, the Chief Legal Authority. I quote: "The analysis of the text of the draft law allows us to conclude that its individual positions conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, do not comply with the applicable laws of Ukraine and do not take into account the relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine." Next comes a complete list of why they don’t count why they don’t. And now I want you to know that in Ukraine, at present, the authorities of the state have not made about one and a half million court decisions in favour of Ukrainian citizens, including pensioners, veterans, war children with disabilities and other socially vulnerable groups, which not only do not meet the requirements of the Constitution and current legislation, but also severely violate citizens' rights, do material and moral damage, but who will care.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u90	Thank you. So the other factions that didn't sign up don't insist? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's session the draft Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments. Second reading. [[Registration number 9127]] [[11:16:35]] For 232 A decision has been made. It's about words. Factions: The parties of the regions – 183, BUT-1, Our Ukraine and the Communists did not vote, the People's Party – 20, reforms – 19, non-fractional – 9, the Communists voted against. I'm surprised, Yuri Anatoliyovich, that you don't know the Constitution. The Prime Minister does not have the right of the subject of the legislative initiative, such a right in the Cabinet of Ministers, is signed by the Prime Minister, but he signs the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. Let's go. He signs the Prime Minister, but he does not have the right to legislative initiative. Carmazine, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Unlike you and those 233 people, the unconscionable people who now don't think they're doing what they did, who supported this decision on the introduction of Law 9127, I know the Constitution very well, and unlike you, Adam Ivanovich, I know that there is article 22 of the Constitution, which provides for the adoption of new laws, to prevent the narrowing of existing rights and freedoms, their scope and content. That's what it says, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. As a result, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who signs documents that violate these rules, cannot be regarded as Ukrainian. And you heard the defense minister's report yesterday, and you heard your prime minister's report, and you knew their language, so they couldn't even come to the third grade to pass the exams. So let's get them back.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u92	Yuri Anatoliyovich, on the 20th article you're right, the 22nd, and the entire Constitution, but the Prime Minister is obliged to sign what the government has accepted, as the Head of the Supreme Council is obliged to sign what the Supreme Council has accepted. Let's move on to chapter, respectable colleagues, second reading. Since there are some other reconciliations to be made, we're going to defer some time to Bill 9666-d. We will now consider a bill, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the state registration of foreign investments. [[Registration number 9676]] [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Vitaliyovich Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u93	President-in-Office of the Ministers of Ukraine and adopted in the first reading on the basis of February 21, 2012. [[No. 9676]] During the drafting of the bill, five proposals were made to the committee for consideration in the second reading, one being counted and four being rejected. As soon as the comparative table was distributed and distributed among the national deputies, another proposal came in from the national MP Voropeyeva. Subject to the requirements of article 120, paragraph 7, of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee commissioned the following text of the proposal. The quote. "Expose part of the first bill of the next edition. First. Part one of the first article of article 395 of the Ukrainian Code of Masters, article 44. [["Report of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" in 2003 No.1822]] "The state registration, re-registration and cancellation of foreign investment shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kyiv and Sevastopol City Public Administrations in accordance with the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers within 7 days from the date of submission to foreign investors of documents for the registration, re-registration and cancellation of foreign investment." End of quote. What to consider in the final edition. At its meeting on 10 April 2012, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on the state registration of foreign investment number 9676 to be adopted on second reading and in general. And I would like to support the committee's decision, taking into account the proposals of the national MP Voropeyeva, which I have just read. If there are any comments about the amendments, I am also willing to talk about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u94	Thank you. We're going after the repairs. Amendment 1 rejected. Carmagine, do you insist? Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin. I suggested, in the second part of the first paragraph of article 395 of the master code of Ukraine, after the words "State registration authority" were added to the words "foreign investment" and beyond. I think that's how we're going to clarify the position of the bill, because it's about the public registration of foreign investments, not about anything else. It is not a political amendment. She's just being specific. Because of that question, why couldn't we count it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u96	The committee believes that this is to some extent a tautological amendment. Because this is about registering foreign investments. Of course, they are carried out by appropriate authorities. We'd add to the phrase "foreign investment," well, we think it's at this, at the editorial level, this is a tautological increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u97	Are you insisting? No, it doesn't. Your second amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment No. 2 refers to my suggestion that paragraph 4 of Part One should be inserted in such an edition. I'm adding it. "The state registration of a foreign investment is the determination of the fact that a foreign investment has been made by the State Investment Registration Authority to an information number with a corresponding entry in the register of the state registration of foreign investments made." This change is made in order to reconcile the bill with each other. In line with the changes made to the first section of Article 395 of the Code of Master and the amendments to Article 13 of the Foreign Investment Act, an authority is established to register foreign investments. According to these standards, registration is carried out by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kyivsky and Sevastopol City Administrations, which in fact act as authorities for the state registration of foreign investment. At the same time, that's the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u99	The second amendment is a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:24:40]] For the 15th. Not supported. 3 amendments, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u100	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank those who supported it. It is sad that they did not hear that there was no need in the two articles to specifically list all the bodies they carry out. And that's how we do legislation a little bit carelessly. This amendment, third, relates to what I propose. In part three of article 13, after the words "owner of such an investment," add the words "to a new foreign investor," and then follow the text. This change is meant to clarify the bill. Because his position is related to foreign investment itself. According to the proposed part of this article, if a foreign investment is removed, the state’s registration of foreign investment is subject to cancellation. [[Repatriation]] Therefore, I ask you to support this proposal and vote more seriously for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u101	The 3rd amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:26:01]] For 20 Not supported. The 4th Amendment of Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank all those who have supported my amendment. Amendment 4 refers to what is proposed in part three of article 13 after the words "owner of such an investment" are added to the words "to a new foreign investor" and beyond the text. This change is being made. And in the fifth part of article 13, after the words "State Registration Authority," add the words "foreign investment." I'm making this change with the aim of clarifying the bill, but I can see that today, now. And now I'm being prevented from considering this law. Adam Ivanovich, you're surprised, the Language Act, your regions have already gotten their, you know, propaganda of this law all the time. I swear, right now. I'm being specifically prevented from reporting right now. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u103	The 4th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:27:29]] For the 18th. Not supported. Dear colleagues, this is how I vote against what the reporter said.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u104	What should be put to the vote? European? Okay. I'm putting Vote to Vote the amendment of Voropeyev for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:28:02]] For 236 Correction supported. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the state registration of foreign investments, and I ask for a vote. [[Registration number 9676]] [[11:28:31]] For 254 Thank you, the law has been passed. We are considering the draft Law on the Approval of the General Target Programme for the Development of Water Management and Environmental Recovery of the Dniper Basin for the period up to 2020. [[Registration number 9584]] [[second reading]] This is the head of Anatoly Seminoga's committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The second reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the draft Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the National Target Programme for the Development of Water and Environmental Recovery of the Dnipro Basin for the period to 2020, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The aim of the law is to improve quality drinking water security for the population and economic sectors, optimize water consumption, protect areas and populated areas from water damage, conserve and reproduce water resources. The program provides for the implementation of actions along these lines. To ensure the development of land melioration and to improve the ecological condition of irrigated and dried land. First-line provision of centralized water supply to rural areas using imported water Protecting rural areas and agricultural land from the harmful effects of water and the complex flood protection of the Dniester, Prutu basins As well as the Tissi River Basin in the Zakarpatsk region, the ecological recovery of the Dniper Basin and the improvement of the quality of drinking water. When the bill was drafted for second reading, comments and suggestions were considered and taken into account by the national deputies of the law - abiding legal entities. The legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the National Target Programme for the Development of Water Management and Environmental Recovery of the Dniper River Basin by 2020, to adopt it as a law in the second reading and as a whole. [[Registration number 9584]] Thank you for your attention and please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u106	Thank you. So let's look at the amendments. Corrections, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u107	16 amendments, all counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u108	All accounted for. No one insists on confirming one or the other, do they? Landik? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u109	Thank you. Here's what we do for Kiev, and Dnieper runs through Kiev, and all the rivers fall into Dnieper. All you have to do is clean water, and you only drink it from Dnieper. What do we have on Donbass? We also drink from the Silver Donnel, and we built a channel in Soviet times called the Silver Donnel Donbass. And if he wasn't, there wouldn't be anything to drink. But no one says anything about the River of the Silver Donor. It has been fenced by a power plant in the city of Happiness — neither the fish goes nor the water goes, everything dies, mumbling, muddy. What are we going to drink from when it's over? The roads are here, the houses are here, everyone's here. And our people's money is coming, especially from Donbass. That's why we're upset about why it's all about Kiev. We need to make a programme by 2020 on all rivers, and especially on people who drink completely like Donbassa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal. The committee recommends acceptance in the second reading as a whole. The rule of law was unattended. Adopt the Act "On the Approval of the Public Target Programme for the Development of Water Management and Environmental Recovery of the Dniepra River Basin for the period to 2020". [[Registration number 9584]] Please vote. [[11:33:19]] For 323 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for violations of labour protection and labour protection requirements. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 9071]] Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement has considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for violating the requirements of labour law and legislation. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, according to which: first, the second part of article 41 adds to and increases sanctions in articles 41, 47, 58, 93, 94, 188.4. Article 41 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is supplemented by a new part that establishes administrative responsibility for violating the established order of reporting, the provision of information to the specialized central authority of the executive branch for the supervision of work on an industrial accident. Third. A new edition of the second part of article 231, identifying the powers of officials of the specialized central authority of the executive branch to oversee the work on administrative offences, is proposed. Articles 267, 271, 272, 275 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine raises penalties in the form of fines. The bill was adopted on January 10, 2012. There were 20 amendments, 11 of which were taken into account, and the rest were rejected because the committee felt that they contradicted the bill's concept of increased responsibility. The Committee believes that the adoption of the bill will contribute to the improvement of the mechanism of legal regulation, the responsibility for violating labour protection and protection requirements. As a result of the discussion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the plenary session of the adoption of Bill No. 9071 on second reading and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u112	Thank you. I'm going after the repairs. 1st, Kinach. Don't insist. Sweden is included. Carmazine, 3rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u113	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose, in article 41, paragraph 2 of Part Two, that we put in the following wording: "...is imposing a fine on employees from two to five untaxed minimum incomes of citizens and on officials of enterprises, institutions, organizations and individuals of entrepreneurs, from five to ten non-taxable minimums." [[I'll give you an accent!]] I write this because, first of all, this paragraph raises sanctions, but the statistics given in the Explanatory Note show that there has been a recent decline in the number of people attracted to the administrative responsibility of the article. The need to increase fines for offences provided for in this article is, in my view, justified. But in many articles of the Code, existing fine sizes do not match the realities of the present, but solving these problems requires a systematic approach within the entire code, not just in individual articles aimed at increasing sanctions. Besides.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u114	The 3rd amendment is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:29]] For the 17th. Not supported. The 7th Amendment of Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin. In the 7th amendment, I propose in article 47 that the second paragraph should be left in good order, namely: "to impose a fine on citizens ranging from four to six untaxed minimum citizens' incomes and on officials, from ten to fourteen untaxed minimum citizens' incomes." This is due to the fact that the figures given in the table on the number of cases of attraction show a significant reduction in such violations for 2010-2011. Thus, it was preceded by a dramatic increase in fines on the basis of the law that we passed with you and entered into force with 8 honourable colleagues, December 2009, that is, positive roles. I think that these sanctions are too harsh because in article 53 of the Criminal Code, fines for committing crimes are from 30 to 1,000 untaxed minimum citizens. So it doesn't make sense to 100 untaxed minimums.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u116	The 17th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:39:00]] For the 15th. Not supported. 9th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you all for your support. It's a shame that we're doing the wrong thing. We have less fines in the Criminal Code than we're currently putting in the administrative system. In article 58, paragraph 2, the second sentence reads: "they are liable to impose a fine on officials and legal persons from 10 to 14 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes." And I believe that the sanctions in this article are too much, since the 53 articles in the Criminal Code determine the amount of fines for committing crimes from thirty to a thousand untaxed minimums. Thus, the maximum amount of fines provided for in article 58 of the Code on Administrative Offences is approaching the maximum amount of fines provided for in the general section of the Criminal Code for committing crimes, which is not logical and unacceptable. In addition, I believe that legal persons should be held accountable because they are the subject of industrial mining.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u118	The 9th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:40:28]] For-23 More, but not enough. 11th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the point of absurdity. The Criminal Code is the same punishment as the Penal Code. Something must be sacred. In article 93, I propose that the second paragraph be made available in such an editorial. "It entails imposing a fine on employees from 2 to 5 untaxed minimum income of citizens and on officials of enterprises, institutions, organizations, regardless of their forms of property, between 5 and 10 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens." First of all, I think the sanction that's in this article is too much. Secondly, I find it unacceptable to leave as a subject of the offence provided for in article 93, citizens, business owners or authorized persons. If a person works for an enterprise, he or she is subject to criteria, either as an employee or as an official. At the same time, the owner of an enterprise may not have any bearing on the performance of organizational arrangements or on the manufacturing process, such as the shareholder or the founder of an enterprise, and may attract it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u120	The 11th amendment is to vote, please be determined. [[11:42:04]] For-24 Not supported. The 15th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u121	The correction of Carmazin 15 is based on the fact that under article 188 with the 4th paragraph badge to leave it in its original form. Because an analysis of the changes that have been made to the Code in recent times has shown a tendency to increase the compositions of administrative offences that provide responsibility for failure to comply with regulations or requirements, or to evade enforcement, or to prevent officials who have appropriate powers to remove or perform their duties. To date, the code contains more than 40 such compositions that differ only from one’s official body to another. This applies to the full extent of the article that is proposed to be amended by the bill. Such a trend cannot be recognized as positive, since the Code is overloaded by a large number of articles that have essentially the same subject of regulation, the established procedure of administration, while the responsibility for the offences provided for in these articles varies considerably. Increasing the fine increases the differences.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u122	15 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:43:36]] For-28 The number is increasing. The 16th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin. I propose that part two of article 231 be left in the office. I called on the government, let's change the code altogether. The code is outdated in 1960, what are we patching? What are we bringing in? Proposations for sanctions, data analysis shows that the number of cases of recourse to the administrative responsibility of article 57 shows a significant reduction in the number of relevant offences in 2010, which led to a sharp increase in fines. This indicates that the steps we have taken have played a positive role. I return you to article 53 of the Criminal Code, where fines for committing crimes are determined between 30 and 1,000 untaxed citizens' incomes. Thus, the maximum amount of the fine provided for in article 57 approaches the maximum amount of fines provided for in part, the total portion of the Criminal Code. Please support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u124	16 the amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:45:06]] For-36 Oh, 36. Yes, not supported. And Karmazin's 19th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin. The honourable national deputies, the sanctions contained in this article, are overly exaggerated. Moreover, it is not possible to talk about the inaction of these fines. This article is a change here and to the 267th, which should be left in the correct order, 271, 272nd, 275th. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the well-founded observations made by the General Legal Office, which say that there are problems with this law, they say that the responsibility is already foreseen. As a result, I ask you to support my amendments to these articles. And thank you to all those who supported my amendments, understanding that the Council as a whole will fail them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u126	19 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u127	Please back up! [[11:46:36]] For-47 More, but not supported. And the 20th amendment of Carmazin is included. I put a motion to the vote, the committee proposes to accept it in the second reading and in general. The principal legal administration was concerned with observations. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Ukrainian Code of Law on Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Criminal Code on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of Labour and Labour Protection Requirements. [[Registration number 9071]] Please vote. [[11:47:28]] For 266 The law is passed. Yes, dear fellows. Let me make an announcement. A colleague of Soboljev called. It reports that I voted against it during the vote in favour of the day-to-day bill 9127, so please add my application to the transcript and minutes of the session and announce it in plenary. We are considering a draft Law amending article 292 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for interference with pipelines, reports that this is a second reading, the head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement work, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. [[Registration number 9344]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u128	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill that we are currently considering was adopted at the first reading on January 10 of this year. And on March 22 we looked at it in the second reading mode. However, the parliamentary majority sent the bill for rereading. During that time, the committee received five amendments from the legislative initiative. Of these, four are counted, one is rejected. And the committee asks for the law to be upheld. He's been working on the profile. He's actually a government man. And the matter of parliamentary majority is to decide with him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u129	Thank you. The first one is edited. The other one. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin. I propose in the bill part one of the first article 292 of the Criminal Code to be drafted in such a way. Please listen carefully. It's very important. "The damage or destruction of highway oil, gas, condensate pipelines and pipelines, their diversions, as well as the technologically related objects, structures, automatic devices, communications, signals, and illegal interference in the operation of technological equipment if these actions have caused disruption to the normal operation of the marked pipelines or have created a danger to people's lives." I would like to present this article first in article 292.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u131	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But I gave you the 2nd, you said the 3rd. All right, we're going to vote three, we're going to go back to two. 3 revisions are being voted. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:50:29]] For the 10th. Let's go back to the 2nd Amendment of Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u132	In the 2nd Amendment, I propose in section I of the bill that the title and part of the first article 292 of the Criminal Code should be left in good order. It's a valid editorial, it's justified by time, and I think we should leave it as a valid editorial. Moreover, I refer you back to the comments of the General Legal Directorate, which says that his remarks to the draft law that he had previously written have preserved their relevance, since the text of the draft to the second reading shows that his text is identical to the previous one, except for the exception of the first article 292 of the Criminal Code to the words "and the electrical protection of buildings, the electricity supply of gas equipment." As a result, it was suggested that the comments made earlier should not be taken into account. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u133	2 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:51:58]] For the 17th. Not supported. The 5th Amendment of Carmazin is included. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the Act amending article 292 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for interference with pipeline transport. [[Registration number 9344]] Please vote. [[11:52:33]] For 243 We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the collection of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs. [[Registration number 9660]] [[second reading]] Report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u134	Thank you, fellows of honor! This bill is designed to establish an exchange between the various national registers that are actually used in the course of registration for legal persons of entrepreneurs. The bill is designed to ensure that the communication of this information is carried out between the authorities without direct involvement by the entity, thus reducing pressure on it, reducing demands, time spent and the cost of registration. The bill is completed by the committee for second reading, ready to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u135	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. Xenia Mikhailovna, you're not correcting us.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u136	I'm only a 9th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u137	Only the 9th. Yes, please, 9 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u138	9th Amendment. Like Amendment 6, 7, 8 and 10 of the other colleagues, such as Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, it is true that what kind of body regulates the exchange of information between the registers of statistical authorities, the State Tax Service, and the Pension Fund. It is the law that provides, and the government is proposing, by such an organ for registration, that is today the Ministry of Justice. Yet we note that these services, which are the owners of these registers, are subordinated to various authorities of the State. And so the establishment of order can be done exclusively by the Cabinet of Ministers. And we ask you to support this amendment, yes, so that, in fact, the Cabinet of Ministers will set this order. It's written in editorial terms. Actually, I don't think it's accounted for. Because it's there. As it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u139	Finish up, please. Yes, the honourable colleagues, 8th, 9th and 10th amendments: Lapina, Carmazin, Yankovsky, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u140	Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u141	A colleague reasoned. It's also an amendment. She spoke for you. Including, I said it was Karmazina. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u142	Please be supportive. [[11:55:42]] For-31
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u143	Not supported. Yeah, the rest of you, who insists on repairs? You don't? I'll put it to a vote. Registered without notice by the Chief Legal Authority. Adopt the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the taking of legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs. Please vote. [[11:56:17]] For 282 Copy that. No, there's still a break. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on List of Permitable Documents in the Field of Economic Activity is under consideration. [[on the list of documents]] [[Registration number 9693]] [[second reading]] Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm noting that this bill, it consists of only two positions -- exclude it from register 15th, 85th position. But by this time the legislative activity was not in place, and one of these positions, the 15th, has already been removed by the bill of colleague Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, has been excluded. So in fact, there's only 85 left over, so I'm paying attention to the protocol so that we don't have a colossal. So the whole bill is to rule out 85 positions. All notes are taken into account. You can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u145	Thank you. The rule of law was unattended. Given what Kseniya Mikhailovna said, 15 points have already been counted, only 85 remain. I bet the vote will be passed by the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activity on the List of Documents. [[Registration number 9693]] Please vote. [[11:58:01]] For 246 Copy that. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of pension assets. [[Registration number 9687]] [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee has prepared for second reading a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of pension assets. [[Registration number 9687]] The second reading came up with seven suggestions from the national MPs, all taken into account. The table is unobserved. Therefore, there is a proposal to vote in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u147	Yes, we'll vote. But now it's Arjevitin, 4th. It's taken into account essentially. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u148	Dear National Deputies! I thank the committee for taking essentially my amendment, but those who follow the board, I'd like to tell you what this is all about. When the liquidation commission works and the bank is bankrupt, a certain order of payments is set for whom the first, second, third, fourth, payment is paid. Today, the Banking Act has a standard when the obligations arising from the damage to the life and health of Ukrainian citizens are first paid, and that is very true. Then the wages are paid to those workers who are currently working at this bank and making these payments. And the third was paid to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. In the committee, we decided that non-state pension funds should be ahead of total deposits, because they're carrying more social burdens, I mean, they're retirement savings for the elderly. That's why we're putting them in front of the people's investment guarantee fund. And I think that's the right position. Thank you so much for taking my committee into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. The Chief Legal Authority has called for the adoption of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine relating to the provision of pension assets without notice. [[Registration number 9687]] Please vote. [[12:00:33]] For 324 Copy that. Dear colleagues, we will now consider the law that has been passed, and then we will announce a recess for 30 minutes. There'll be a break, but come on. Understand that we have representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers sitting for more than two hours, waiting for us to approach. I repeat. Who wants to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Certain Tax Standards and then announce a break of 30 minutes? Please be supportive. [[12:01:17]] For 237 It will be, Yuri Anatolyovich. 237. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Certain Tax Standards. [[Registration number 9661-d]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I will briefly remind you of the bill adopted on March 13, this year. The point was that we united a number of Cabinet of Ministers and National Deputies bills into a unified bill to amend the Tax Code. The second reading included 252 suggestions, 170 of which were taken into account and 82 were rejected. Special attention has been given to improving the simplified system of taxation and reporting as a result of its implementation since January 1st of this year. Including at the request of small businesses, we're simplifying the procedure for charging single-tax payers, on. The mechanism for introducing a moratorium for this year on the application of certain fines to single taxpayers has been developed. Suggests a set of tax changes. on tax administration issues that focus primarily on simplifying and improving administrative procedures. An important place in our work has been allocated to taxing on added value. The following is predicted: to cancel the restrictions on voluntary registration by a VAT payer, which will allow any person who carries out economic activity to register with a VAT payer, regardless of the amount of supply. A simplified procedure for the registration of single taxpayers by VAT payers, including voluntary changes in single tax rates. In addition, we are invited not to apply the decree by January 1, 2014, or the penalty for not applying or violating the deadline for submission to the authorities of the State Tax Office of information on the replacement of data that is submitted to the State Register of Natural Persons. Please also, for the transcripts, give the commission to the committee together with the Chief Legal Authority after the vote to edit the text of the adopted law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u151	Thank you. Yeah, let's get some repairs. 1st, Shevchuk doesn't insist. Homutinian, 3rd, does not insist. So, Yuri Anatolyovich, there are some of your amendments, are you insisting on them?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u152	On the downside.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u153	On the downside? Yeah, right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u154	Only on the rejected, revered Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u155	Good, good, because there's an editorial part here. Yeah, yeah, 50. Yes, Homutinic. 56 is rejected. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u156	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition In paragraph 2 of paragraph 65.5. Article 65: "by a specially authorized public registration authority and the central authority of the State Tax Office, I propose to replace the words 'Office of the Ministers of Ukraine'. I refer to the head of the committee, and I believe that the order in which data are transferred to the tax payer in the Single State Register, legal persons and individuals on the day of collection of the legal person and the separate unit should be established by the Cabinet of Ministers, not by a specially authorized authority on matters of state registration and by the central authority of the State Tax Service. [[entrepreneurs]] This is necessary to optimize management decisions. Because the Cabinet of Ministers is a higher body in the executive system. And the Constitution of Ukraine gives him such powers. Article 116, paragraph 9. So this kind of legislation has to be adopted by the government of Ukraine for the sole purpose of approach and normal work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u157	Thank you. Karmazin’s 56th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:06:01]] For the 17th. Not supported. The rest of Yuri Anatoliovich's amendments, if I'm not mistaken, counted or partially counted. No, Yuri Anatolyovich, no more, because I don't see your rejects, no more, yes. What else?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u158	I've got two editorials for the transcript, I'll announce it. Amendment 182.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u159	Now let's see, 182 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u160	Replace the words "central authority of the State Tax Office" with the words "central authority of the executive authority that ensures the formation of public financial policy." It's so technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u161	I'm voting on this proposal. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:07:00]] For 239. This position is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u162	Also, 246 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u163	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u164	246.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u165	Now, let's see, 246 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u166	The words and digits "from 1 January to 31 December 2012" are replaced by "in 2012".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u167	This is a proposal for a vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:07:38]] For 237 Copy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u168	And literally two more positions to confirm 215 and 250.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u169	So 215 amendments, now honorary colleagues, 215 amendments apply to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:08:08]] For-7. Not supported. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u170	250.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u171	250 also applies to confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:08:32]] For 1 Not supported. Yes, Glazonov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u172	I'm asking you to make a note of 173 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u173	Now, wait with one of us first. Yes, 173 amendments are considered for confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:09:09]] For 1 Yes, and please, Glazonov. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u174	And 235 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u175	235 amendments are considered essentially for confirmation. Please Identify
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u176	I'm asking you to support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u177	Vote. [[12:09:44]] For 233 So there's still what the committee is offering. Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u178	So we just voted in 235. Yeah, that's it? Then, dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Amendment Act to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Certain Tax Standards. [[Registration number 9661-d]] Please vote. [[12:10:30]] For 235 Thank you, the law has been passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! Please come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. We listen to questions about the election and release of judges. First, the election of judges. I invite the Deputy Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Pinchuk Mikol Grigorovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u180	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The political elite of Ukraine! According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Judicial and Judicial Law, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates with the requirements of article 127 of the Ukrainian Constitution, articles 53, 64 of the Act. She also discussed the appeal of citizens, public organizations, businesses, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities, and local self - government authorities to the activities of candidates for the position of judges who came to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine on a temporary basis during the Commission’s consideration of the issue of recommending them to serve as judges. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, the submission to the Supreme, the submission of the Higher Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and the decision taken by it to recommend candidates for appointment as judges on an indefinite basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your consideration. Project Number 10509. Please choose judges on an untimely basis: The Jankoya District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Holkina Hann Ivanovna; The Central City District Court of the Horn of Creature of the Dnipropetrov district of Bondarevo Olen Ivanovna; Kalininsky District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Krupoder Dmitr Alexanderovich; The Illchid District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk, Ivanchenko Allu Mikolayevna; Borispolski District Court of Kyiv District, Sergey Mihajlovich; The Brovari District Court of Kiev, Petrisin Natalia Mikolaynowna; Obukhiv district court of Kyiv district of Prez Tetjanu Vasilovna; The Lenin District Court of Kirovgrad Shevchenko Irina Mikolayevna; The Preval District Court of the Luhansk district of Sinicin Eduardo Mikolaiovich; The Pashtomitov District Court of the district of Lviv, Musievsky Vladimir Evgenovich; Shevchenkov District Court of Lviv Glinsky Darin Bogdanovna; Koselštínsk District Court of Poltava District of Oksenyuk Mikhail Mikolaiovich; Dnipropetrov County Administrative Court Glaucoma Helen Volodymyrovna, Turkak Natalija Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the ruling to a vote. Please, Yavorowski. Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u182	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", city of Kirovograd. I do not propose to remove from the list the candidate for the Lenin District Court of Kirovgrad Shevchenko Irina Mikolayevna. Hide God, keep it on the list. It's just that if she's here, I have a question for her. Is she there, Irina Mikolayevna?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u183	Wait a minute with the questions. Wait. Yes, dear colleagues, with the exception of Shevchenko Irina Mikolayovna, I am voting on the Supreme Council's Order on the Election of Judges. [[Registration number 10509]] Please vote. [[12:45:27]] For 263 Decision taken. Yes. Please, Shevchenko Irina Mikolayevna, come to the microphone. Yavorowski's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u184	Irina Mikolayevna has no claim to you as a national deputy and I will vote for you. But I want you to, well, because I'm stuck behind Kirovograd and I'm very often there, and I work there, and I have this question for you. Please tell me, we, of course, have a long time judge – it was something that was so unattainable to us, far away, honest, decent, usually. With the appearance and trial of Julia Tymoshenko Kiriev, who testified to what the judge might go down to. Because when I brought an American lawyer to court, he spent three minutes and said I did. I don't know if this is a court of law. But we thought. That Kiriev is an exception. It turned out that there were still judges in Kiev who were reviewing the case. Now there's a judge in this in Kharkiv district. Please tell me, do you think they are compromising the judicial system and justice in Ukraine in general or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u185	I don't think it's really a question. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put to the vote the motion to elect an untimely judge of the Lenin District Court of the city of Kirovgrad, Shevchenko Irina Mikolayovna, please vote. Because it doesn't apply to her! I think it's because I'm the head. You'll be in charge, then you'll be in charge. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:47:08]] For 256 Thank you, the decision is made. Order number 10509-1, please. I'm bringing this to your attention. Order 10509-1. Please choose judges on an untimely basis: The Eupatoria City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Lord Natalia Mikhailnov; The Lenin District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Kondrak Natal Josifovna; The Bar District Court of the Viennese Region of Ermichov Vita Valentinovna; The Apostolic District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Marchenko Natalija Viktorovna; The Shirokhiv District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Leonid Olen Volodymyrna; Kalininsky District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Žukow Olga Eugenyevna The Dolin District Court of the Kyrovograd district of Bondarczuk Ruslan Anatoliyovich; The Lenin District Court of Kirov City of Ivan's Lilia Andriyovna; The Krasnodon City Court of Luhansk, Balichev Marina Borisovna; Djomina Olen Petrovna, District Court of Luhansk; Ishmael City Court of Odessa District of Bournusus Aleksandra Alexiyovich; The divisional district court of the Odessa district of Panchuk Anatoly Ivanovich; Primorski District Court of Odessa Labunski Volodymyr Mikolayovic; The Zacarpathian District Administrative Court of Rathi Sergey Ivanovich; The Kyiv District Administrative Court of Basai Oleg Viktorovich, Lapiy Mikolaiovich; The Lviv District Administrative Court of Tertika Vitali Grigorovitch; Odessa District Administrative Court, Jefimenka Kostin Sergiyovich; Kharkiv District Administrative Court of Chalo Igor Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Supreme Council Order 10509-1 on the election of judges. Please vote. [[12:50:05]] For 268. Thank you. It's been decided. Project Regulation 10509-2. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u187	Please note the draft of the given decision. Choose judges on an untimely basis: Judges of the Venice City Court of Donetsk, Ferenchuk Olen Victorovna; Graduation of the Zacarpathian district of Tragník Vassil Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u188	I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. [[Registration number 10509-2]] Please vote. [[12:50:59]] For 259. Thank you. It's been decided. Project Order 10509-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u189	Please choose judges on an untimely basis: The Brovar District Court of Kiev, Vasilišin Valerija Alexandrovich; Shevchenkovsky District Court of Kiev Bugil Volodymyr Viacheslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote on the election of judges. [[Registration number 10509-3]] Please vote. [[12:51:53]] For 260 Thank you. Copy that. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that our colleagues from the Central European Initiative Parliament are now watching the work of Parliament. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Thank you. Project Set 10509-4. Please, Mikola Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u191	Please select judges who have been elected on an open-ended basis to serve as judges: Donetsk’s Court of Appeal – Ushenko Ludmila Volodymyrna; Kyiv's Court of Appeal – Ponomarenka Eugenia Yuriovich; The Donetsk District Administrative Court is Mesenetsev Evgen Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u192	Thank you. I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. [[Registration number 10509-4]] Please vote. [[12:53:16]] For 257 Thank you. Decision taken. Project Regulation No. 10509-5.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u193	Please choose judges on an untimely basis: The Kyiv Court of Appeal is the Sorceka Evgen Aleksandrovitch; Petropavlovsky District Court of the Dnipropetrov region – Kurocchina Olen Mikhailnovna; Rubižan City Court of Lugansk Region - Moskalenko Victoria Victorian; The Dnipropetrov District Administrative Court is the Verbe Irina Alexandrovna. The Donetsk District Administrative Court, Galatin Olenna Alexandrovna; The Kyiv District Administrative Court – Stavini Vitali Romanović;
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u194	What about Odessa? Harchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u195	Wait a minute. The Odessa District Administrative Court is Harchenko Julius Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u196	Thank you. Please, Easy Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u197	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I take this opportunity that there are MEPs in our Parliament right now, and I'd like, honourable colleagues, to come to you, and look, there are MPs in the Presidium. What do you think they're doing there? I'll tell you what, because they're willing to fight for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u198	Turn off the microphone. I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges 10509-5. Talk about it, then you'll be done. Vote. [[12:55:23]] For 255 Decision taken. We're looking at Project Number 10509-6, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u199	Please select Harchenko Svetlana Vasilovna to serve as Judge of the Kyiv District Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u200	I put to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to elect a judge, please vote. [[Registration number 10509-6]] [[12:56:06]] For 256 Thank you. Decision accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u201	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u202	Yes, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Kolesnichenko, head of the Supreme Council of Justice, Rosh.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u203	Hello. Draft regulation 10186-9, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u204	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u205	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, distinguished representatives, the Superior Council of Justice, in accordance with article 126 of the Fifth Part of the Constitution of Ukraine, proposes the release of Tichok Mikola Fedorovic from the office of the judge of the Obolon District Court of Kiev in connection with the violation of the judge’s oath, namely, the unlawful application of the enforcement measures, the satisfaction of the court’s claims, which were not actually brought before the citizens and the collection of substantial sums from the Ukrainian State budget, the judges’ decisions were made by the Kiev district military commission, resulting in a particularly large-scale loss to the State. At a previous meeting of the Supreme Council in connection with the judge’s incriminating decision of the High Council of Justice to the Supreme Administrative Court, 224 votes were not obtained. Today, the application is denied. In addition, I inform you that he is sentenced to six years in prison by a District Court decision. Please support this submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u206	And there's a punishment, right? I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u207	No, not yet, not yet. It hasn't entered yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u208	Not present, okay. Dear colleagues, now, now. Easy, please, microphone, but on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u209	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. To me, Your Honor, the head of the High Council of Justice, you have a question on the subject. I've asked you many times and I've asked you a question, and it's a requirement that you report from the Supreme Council's rostrum a draft order for the discharge of the judges of the Pecher district court of Kiriev and Vuk, who are the contractors of the political orders of today's government. I'm asking how long you, as the Supreme Council of Justice, will allow you to discredit the judicial system of Ukraine, with these murderers in its composition, without exaggeration, who kill democracy, who abuse justice and the law. To whom you personally, as head of the High Council of Justice, are responsible for the absence of independent justice in Ukraine. You are personally responsible for the fact that there are political prisoners in Ukraine today. You're personally responsible for what's ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now considering, not the report or the head of the High Council of Justice, but the ruling on the dismissal of the judge. That's when he'll report, then he'll answer. Yes, please, Mikolo Fedorovich, do you have anything to say to the deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u211	Can I talk? Yes, I have indeed appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court the decision of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u212	Step closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u213	And my question was resolved on April 12th on the Supreme Council, the draft decree on my release was not adopted. So this time was considered by the Supreme Administrative Court, and I, as a judge who has the experience of one and a half years and a half, saw the direction of the trial, the concerns of my elementarys were not satisfied, and at a certain stage of the trial I got up and left the hall. So in that case, the Supreme Administrative Court should leave the case pending. And as it says here, the Supreme Administrative Court has made a decision -- it's not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u214	Yes, of course, Your Honor, there is a court decision. I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to release the judge registration number 10186-9. Please vote. [[13:00:55]] For 260 I'll take the order. Project Rule 10510, please, Volodymira Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u215	The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 15 May this year, pursuant to section 126, paragraph 9, of the Fifth Article 126, article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law of Ukraine on the judiciary and status of judges of Ukraine, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to submit the relevant submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of all judges found their actual will, foreign influence and coercion. The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be dismissed: The New Moscow City Court of Dnipropetrovsk Sokolansk Olen Mikolayovna in connection with the application for resignation; Tatarbunar District Court of Odessa, Primak Galina Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Lenin District Court of Kharkova Terentiev Paul Petrovich in connection with the application for resignation; Shevchenkov district court in Kiev, Vasiliev Tamara Mikhailovna, in connection with the application for resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u216	Yes, Your Honor, these are the judges who have declared their resignation. Easy, but by subject, by subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u217	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Adam Ivanovich, now in the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Justice. And I think it's on the subject of asking questions about the activities of judges and the functioning of the judicial system. Dear Mr. Head, right now our listeners have written me such an essay and they ask you to address the work of Judge Ravenna District Court of Sizerenka, who is behind the bribe to put him in jail and fabricate criminal cases. Please consider this my MP's request. To arrange a review of the Supreme Council of Justice on the facts of the judge’s activity and, on the basis of the evidence, to make the application for the release of Judges Sízorenka from office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u218	Oleg Lazko, this is called telephone law, which is forbidden in us. I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council Order on the release of judges. [[Registration number 10510]] Please vote. [[13:03:26]] For 255 Copy that. [[Registration number 10510-1]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u219	The Supreme Council of Justice proposes to release Kovalov Igor Mikolaiovich as Judge of the Ravenna City Court. There's no judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u220	Yes, dear colleagues, there is nothing to say, because there is a telegram, there is a telegram from a judge who does. Because he's in the hospital. That is to say, the question is being considered. 10510-2. When we consider it, we will consider it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u221	The Supreme Council of Justice proposes to release Miropolski Sergey Alexiyovich from office as judge of the court in Sumské district in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath, namely, because of unconscionable treatment of his duties, a violation of labour discipline, systematic absences and gravity. All the facts of the systematic violations of the judges established at the High Council of Justice meeting on April 24, this year, and the decision to make a corresponding submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A lot of times, it doesn't come to work. A large number of times, it comes to work in a state of alcohol abuse, which is what the materials are about. Repeatedly, he had conversations with him and related decisions of the Council of Judges. Please be supportive. The judge is here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u222	Yes, please, Sergey Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u223	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u224	Come closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u225	I was charged with the decision of the High Council of Justice to the Supreme Administrative Court. The case is scheduled for June. Since I was not present at the meeting of the High Council of Justice itself, I was at the hospital at the time, unable to object. I want to say more. Now, the conclusions that have been made without me are completely the opposite of the quality of the work. Where did the numbers come from? I've been tested, they don't match reality. In view of what I request, I ask that this issue be put to the disposal of the matter before the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u226	Please, Sidelnik. Seat, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Judge Miropolsky Sergey Alekseevich has more than 20 years in judicial practice. He is now accused of not being employed in 2008-2009. And today, if you look at the calendar, we have 2012. That is, for the transgressions that were before, and he has proof that he was being treated at that time. That's why I'm proposing. He's got seven months to retire. But you can't be so cruel as to keep a man from working out. And given that it was a long time ago, 2008-2009. Dear colleagues! Please support and give him an opportunity to complete this post. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u228	Yavorowski and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u229	Dear colleague! I want to ask you, what planet did you come from? It's because I have some affection for you and I know what's behind it. When you, a judge who has worked for so many years, file a lawsuit with the Supreme Council of Justice. And what you believed was that you could win a lawsuit when the Justice Council actually assigned those judges there. So I just can't understand your logic, you believed that there was someone in this state who could make a negative conclusion, a negative decision on the Justice Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u230	Yes, please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u231	I want to make some comments on this. I would like to point out that the Supreme Special Court, the Administrative Court, made decisions by which the High Council of Justice acted unlawfully or by a decision that was taken in a collegiate manner. There have been and have been many times. In addition, decisions were made regarding the Supreme Council, which recognized the actions of the Supreme Council as illegal. And we did, and you did, thank you, so we hope that the decision is legitimate. With regard to the judge’s appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court, the law also provides that the Administrative Code provides that the appeal for the actions or omissions of the High Council of Justice is not the basis for a mistrial in court. Because the appeal itself will be a procedure for continuing this long period of time. Please support our offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote an offer to accept the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on the dismissal of the judge. [[Registration number 10510-2]] Please vote. [[13:08:52]] For 202 Not accepted. [[Applause]] I think the applause is premature because there's going to be a court decision and we're going to vote. Question completed. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u233	A draft Law on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels is being published for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, Judge? Yes, the reporter is Gregory Kaletnik. We're putting the bill on hold. There's no reporter, that's the first time. Secondly, the text of the bill does not meet the requirements of article 116. Don't stop working. Yes, I am introducing a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Individual Offences. Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u234	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On 4 April 2012, the Supreme Council Committee on Legislative Security reviewed a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Individual Offences, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputy Valérie Behviz. [[Registration number 7483]] In all, 45 proposals were made to the bill from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Of these, 28 are fully accounted for. The remaining 17 amendments have been rejected, and these are amendments to the people’s deputies of Carmazin, Gumenjuk, and Wondernova, in view of the amendments made by the people’s deputy Behiz. The final drafting committee amended articles 174, 190, 191, 192, 192, 194, 195, 165, 265 of the Code of Administrative Offences, which, like administrative responsibility for illegal activities related to the handling of weapons, establishes a similar responsibility for devices designed to shoot ammunition equipped with rubber or similar nonlethal weapons. The treatment of special means of active defence, the prize weapon, involves confiscation and increased sanctions. Regarding the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. During their discussions, members of the committee unanimously concluded that their consideration was totally undermining the purpose of the bill, and the amendments proposed by the bill to date were relevant and aimed at strengthening the rule of law and improving the level of security of citizens. The Committee also points out that the above-mentioned changes to effective administrative legislation were initiated by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine as a result of a review of the Department of Public Security of the General Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev on the issue of compliance with the law in the issuance of permits for the acquisition, storage and carrying of home-made ammunition devices equipped with rubber or analogous ammunition. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a second reading and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u235	Thank you, too. Amendment number 3 Yuri Carmazin. He insists, Yuri Anatolyevich, on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u236	Yuri Carmazin. I insist, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and as people are now drawn to the Supreme Council, we have a growing opposition in society. Obviously, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we need to use the power to draft a bill on what is called a language policy and to remove this issue, not to aggravate it. Because it will be exactly what is in this article. In this article, I propose that, in article 190, the author's proposal should be deleted as a complement to the term "special means of active defence", i.e. to leave the title of the article in its original form - "Contravention by citizens of the order of purchase, storage, transfer to other persons or sale of firearms, cold or pneumatic weapons". Because electroshock devices, special law enforcement devices, cannot be owned by citizens, public associations, international organizations, and legal persons of other nations. Under such circumstances, establishing the responsibility for violating these rules is illogical, since there is no such rule at present.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u237	Yes, please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u238	The committee suggests that the amendment No. 2 of the Beblaza People’s Deputies be taken into account as a better amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u239	I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 3 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:14:58]] For-24 Correction not accepted. Amendments 4 and 5 are the same. There's no need to vote on it. It's weird, it's 6:00. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 9th, Carmazin. But we've already voted for it, they're the same amendments. Same from Gumenjuk. The same repairs. Let's move on. Yeah, 31st is the same correction. These are all the same amendments. Yes, all other adjustments are included. Please allow the committee to accept the second reading and generally as a law. Yeah? The principal legal administration has certain observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u240	I've already said that in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u241	I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the increase of liability for individual offences. [[Registration number 7483]] Please vote. [[13:16:42]] For 260 Decision taken. So the law was passed. I am introducing a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the improvement of individual regulations on the restriction of smoking places of tobacco products]] The rapporteur is Head of the Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachtiev Health Committee. Please, Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u242	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, I would just like to remind you that on the first reading of Bill 9474 we passed on 17 November, which was prepared by 12 people's deputies, independent of political factions, and voted in favour of 324 people's deputies. Today's heavy tobacco statistics worldwide, and so on May 31st is World Tobacco Day. Before that day, we have an exhibition against smoking in the towers of the Supreme Council. And of course, our bill will help to enable a large number of people in Ukraine to be healthy. As a result of statistics, 80 per cent of deaths per year in Ukraine are related to tobacco abuse, which is a cardiovascular disease, which is an oncological disease. Five million people die every year because of tobacco, which means every six seconds. According to statistics, 11 million Ukrainians are abused by tobacco and, unfortunately, children between the ages of 12 and 14 are 1 in 4 children. Because we have been working consistently to combat tobacco smoking, we have increased excise duty from 48 copies to 3.5 grevents in relation to the fact that we have changed advertising on tobacco packages from 30 per cent to 50, as is the European norm. And we're doing a lot of our activities, which are always supported by social organizations. Today, I was presented with the signature of a thousand public organizations of bartenders, restaurants and cafes who categorically ask the Supreme Council to ban smoking. And of course, today, given that the bill has been submitted for second reading, there have been many amendments – more than 108 amendments. In general, I would like to say that all the laws that have given large numbers of people such as Yuri Anatolievich Karmazin, such as Xenia Lapina, relate to the fact that all the rules prohibiting the smoking of all public, health, public institutions and institutions should be consolidated into one law: “On measures to prevent, reduce the consumption of tobacco products and their harmful effects on human health”. Because we have another law on government regulation. The main appeal of the World Health Organization on 31 May is the introduction of tobacco business in the fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u243	Let's go to the repairs. First amendment. Taras Blackwall insists on her? No, it's not. Next. Rubber, 12th Amendment. No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 14th Amendment. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u244	Yuri Carmazin. The 14th amendment relates to what I propose to write in paragraph 9 of Part 2: "in the territory of the public food establishments." And I don't understand why the committee didn't count it. Dear Aunt Dmitry, perhaps you're wrong because I'm writing these changes because they're in the territories. open areas of public nutrition are allowed to smoke, which is contrary to the basic tasks of the law on prevention and reduction of the use of tobacco products and their harmful effects on the health of the population as defined in article 3 of this law, such as ensuring that people are protected from harmful effects on workers and in public places. And actually, Aunt Dmitry, I want to thank you for the right approach, but these are the details that need to be worked out. I think that this amendment needs to be taken into account and a number of other amendments, and then we'll have a full, normal good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u245	Thank you. Indeed, Yuri Anatolyevich, we... have carefully approached your amendment and believe that it is a little premature. Here's to the next law, even harder, we're going to introduce this rule. Because we cannot limit the territory today if we restrict the premises of the Supreme Council, there is a territory nearby and until we can go there. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u246	Amendment 14 shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u247	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u248	[[13:22:33]] For-39 Correction not supported. Amendment 15, Yuri Prokopchuk, insists? No, it's not. Yes, Wolintz, 17th. Moses, 18th? No, it's not. Yes, Cranville, 23rd. No, it's not. Carmazine, 26th. Are you insisting on Yuri Anatolyovich? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u249	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the first part of the third should be made available in the following way: at a distance closer than 20 meters of direct visibility from the territory mentioned in paragraph 1.7, section 9.11 of this article. This is due to the fact that, in order to protect citizens from the harmful effects of secondary tobacco smoke, it is necessary to ban tobacco products at a distance from the elevators, taxi recorders, health care facilities, educational and educational institutions, playgrounds, sports courses, stadiums, sports facilities, access to residential buildings, underground passages, public food facilities, cultural institutions, entrances to metropolis, airports, annual ports, automobiles, or stationary transportation facilities. I'm noting that these girls in the secretariat who are handing out papers are now being poisoned by what's happening on the second floor here. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you said they'd close this chicken. They didn't close it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u250	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, indeed, this rule is in all European countries where there is the same total ban on smoking as we suggest. But given that it will be very difficult to determine the territory so far, we propose not to go to this project and because it will make it very difficult to control what is 20 meters.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u251	Amendment 26 shall be put to the vote. [[13:24:48]] For-35 No correction supported. Amendment 31 Mikoli Tomenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, for the first time, I would like to express solidarity with Tetjana Dmitrovna and with groups of authors who, like my colleagues, are fighting for a healthy and sporting Ukraine. Second position. I want to say that in our time, Mikola Polishchuk and I convinced the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we should start the fight, and the law contains a standard of 50 by 50. When we entered the standard, we took the first step to expand our health. But what is the point of my correction? Colleagues in the first reading offered a general standard of either banning smoking in rooms or taking special places. And here's the question that there has to be an imperative, how much space do we give today for these special places? My suggestion was that in restaurants, cafes, bars, or public places, 20 percent would be given. The author's offer is 10 percent. In principle, I don't deny it, although I think it might have to be a more evolutionary way, but once again I say that this approach allows us to increase the area of health and separate the smoking room by providing ventilation, and the ability to function normally, and to those who work and relax, I think is right. That is why I do not insist on my amendment and will support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u254	Dear colleagues! So we will not vote on the amendment. Mikola Volodymyrovich explained his position. Let's move on. Yeah, you don't insist on 50? They're the same. We'll get right on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u255	32nd, Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u256	Right now, I'm looking at the amendments. Well, all the other amendments here are either accounted for, or colleagues don't insist on them. What's that? Oh, 32nd and 36th. Voline, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I support such a bill, personally conducting an explanatory work for a healthy way of life against smoking. But when he carefully studied the experience of other countries, he found that the ban did not always result in a positive outcome. For example: In Spain, Macedonia, Britain, and Scotland, for example, Ireland, this ban resulted in 11 percent of food establishments being closed, restaurants losing 80 percent of their profits, and other food establishments lose 25 percent of their profits. I offer to equip separate rooms or separate halls for those who smoke but must be provided with ventilation – it must be exhausting. In doing so, an explanatory work on the harm of smoking should be carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u258	Thank you. Distinguished Mikhail Yakovlevic, on the other hand, on the recommendations made by the World Health Organization for such special facilities, is always very ineffective. They need to be specially equipped and, of course, no one will do so. And your next amendment to the 36th, it's completely in contravention of the basic purpose of our law. We therefore request that these amendments be rejected as we approach those norms that exist in very developed countries, which are already over 16, and yet they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u259	Thank you. Amendment 32 shall be put to the vote. [[13:29:49]] For-46 Correction not accepted. Amendment 36 shall be put to the vote. [[13:30:08]] For-24 Correction not counted. Yes, Amendment 93. Xenia Leapina insists on her? No, it's not. Yes, everyone else here counts or does not insist on national MPs. Dear colleagues, I would like your attention to vote on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of certain provisions on the restriction of smoking places of tobacco products. [[Registration number 9474]] Please vote. 9474. [[13:30:55]] For 368 Law passed
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u260	Thank you all very much. Strong health.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u261	A draft Act amending the Energy Conservation Act of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the payment of national energy saving expertise]] Igor Glushchenko, please. Member of the PEC Committee. Is there a Band-Aid?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u262	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has been prepared for consideration in second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Energy Conservation Act of Ukraine, [[on the payment of national energy saving expertise]] [[Registration number 8554]] Your attention is provided by a comparative table to the second reading of the draft Act. The draft Law is designed to create the right conditions for State control measures in the field of efficient use of fuel and energy resources, to conduct a state energy conservation expertise, to address the issue of the cost of conducting a state energy conservation expertise, the conclusion of which is one of the main documents in the award of State preferences. The text adopted in the first reading received 11 suggestions from the Ukrainian national deputies. In particular, from Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, there are 4 proposals, 2 of which are taken into account. From Šarov Igor Fedorović, there are 4 proposals, 2 of which are edited and 2 rejected. Igor Mikolaiovich's Gobbler is 3 suggestions that are included. The substance of the proposals and the proposed decisions are presented in a comparative table.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u263	Dear colleagues! Who insists on amendments that are out of the question? In particular, this is the first amendment and the third. You don't? The committee has no warnings. More specifically, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority doesn't have any warnings about a second-reading project. It is up to the vote to propose to the adoption committee in the second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft law, to amend the Energy Conservation Act of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8554]] [[on the payment of national energy saving expertise]] Please vote. [[13:33:51]] For 259. The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 37 of the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct is being announced for consideration. [[on the increase in the income portion of the general government social insurance funds]] The reporter is Vladimir Filipenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u264	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed at its meeting on 11 April 2012 the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 37 of the Act on Executive Conduct and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill in second reading and in general as a law. [[on the increase in the income portion of the general government social insurance funds]] To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of February 21, this year, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice revised the proposed bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions of legal entities. In the process of preparing for the second reading by the subject of the legislative initiative, 8 amendments were made, most of which are taken into account by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u265	I'm sorry. Correction Strange doesn't count. Is the Wonder Man insisting on her? No, it's not. Then I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct. [[on the increase in the income portion of the general government social insurance funds]] [[Registration number 8508]] Please vote. [[13:36:00]] For-53 The decision is not taken. There's no point in sending it. The bill's been rejected. What can be the second? The proposal to re-read the bill is put to the vote if the committee has something to work on. [[13:36:42]] For the 250. Decision taken. Yes, now, honourable colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the right of a person to review judicial decisions. [[Registration number 10001]] The reporter is Vladimir Filipenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u266	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered at its meeting on 11 April 2012 the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the right of a person to review judicial decisions adopted in the first reading and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on second reading and in general as a law. Colleagues, in the process of preparing for second reading of the bill, have made 26 amendments to the law by subject entities, which have resulted in the fact that all of them have been taken into account, partly and editorially. So please support this amended bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, all the amendments that have been made are supported by the committee and taken into account. So there is every reason to put to the vote a proposal for adoption in the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft law, registration number 10001. Please vote. They took it off during the processing process, they said. [[13:38:19]] For 247 The law is passed. A draft Law on the Development and Consumption of Biological Fuels is being published for consideration. [[7524]] There's already a reporter. He is the head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee. Please, let's do some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u268	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The amendment to this bill is 20. All suggestions and corrections are taken into account by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u269	It's the last one. Now, one minute. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u270	All amendments taken into account by the committee and the proposal and legal administration taken into account regarding 116 articles, parts of 8 of the article have been revoked.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u271	Please, Sobolev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u272	Because. Sobolev, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Since the text of the amendments has changed in many ways the first text that was submitted for consideration, I have been asked to vote on each amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, prepare, we will vote. True, I don't think it's changed anything here, but that's the requirement. May I have your attention, please? 1 amendment shall be put to the vote for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:40:10]] For 234 Correction counted. Vote 2 of the amendment. Please vote. [[13:40:29]] For 233 Correction counted. There's an amendment to the 3rd vote. Please vote. [[13:40:49]] For 225 I'll bet the vote on the motion to return to Amendment 2. Please calm down, please. Work. [[13:41:17]] For 235 Correction counted. Oh, come back, I'm sorry, I'm back. I'll bet you a vote on the approval of this amendment. Please vote. [[13:41:42]] For 238. Correction accepted. 3 amendments are put to the vote for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u274	That was the third one. Fourth, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u275	Let's do it again, I'll do it. Well, you'll kill anyone. Let's do it again now. 3 amendments shall be put to the vote. Please vote. Well, please. [[13:42:21]] For 247 Don't let it get to you. Yes. The amendment is 5 for confirmation. The committee is accounted for. Please vote. [[13:42:47]] For 242 Copy that. It's the confirmation of Amendment 7. Please vote. [[13:43:06]] For 243 Correction accepted, confirmed. 10 amendments for confirmation shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:43:29]] For 245 Copy that. It's an 11th vote to confirm it. [[13:43:50]] For 244 Copy that. Puts the vote to the 12th amendment to confirm it. Please vote. [[13:44:09]] For 241 Correction accepted. It's the 13th Amendment to the vote to confirm it. Please vote. [[13:44:31]] For 245 Copy that. There's an amendment to the 14th vote to confirm it. Please vote. [[13:44:51]] For 245 Copy that. Puts the vote to the 15th amendment for confirmation. Please vote. [[13:45:11]] For 245 Correction accepted. An amendment under number 16 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:45:31]] For 240 Copy that. It's on the 17th amendment. Please vote. [[13:45:51]] For 242 It's on the 18th amendment. Please vote. [[13:46:10]] For 239. Correction accepted. And it's the confirmation of Amendment 19. Please vote. [[13:46:35]] For 243 Correction accepted. And the last amendment 20 is for the vote to confirm it. There is a need for clarification, for the two nineteenths are 20 amendments. Please vote. [[13:47:01]] For 244 Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law on second reading and generally as a law on the development of production and consumption of biological fuels. [[Registration number 7524]] Please vote. [[13:47:33]] For 247 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the draft Law on the Complementation of Article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[on the insurance of contestants]] [[Registration number 5137]] Reports Eugene Soslov, head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u276	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on April 24, 2012, reviewed the amendments and proposals made by the legislative initiatives that came into the bill. In total, eight amendments were made, with six amendments taken into account, one amendment was partially taken into account and one amendment was rejected. To take into account the comments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority, the committee suggested that it be determined that athletes whose lives and health are uninsured and at the time of the competitions are not allowed to compete. It has also been introduced to determine that competition organizers, according to legislation, are responsible for the damage done to the lives and health of athletes participating in sports competitions if their lives and health were not insured. Such a bill will allow, on the one hand, to avoid the problem of compulsory insurance, which is noted by the Chief Legal Authority and, on the other hand, to determine how the damage to life and the health of uninsured athletes should be compensated. According to members of the committee, the insurance fee for several days of competition will be small, but it will help the young athlete to obtain adequate insurance in case of injury. The committee proposes to consider the bill in full second reading, repeat, apologize, second reading and accept it as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, we must vote. Just a minute. We need to vote on the name of the draft law. The committee has taken into account that this is the 1st amendment, and that's why we need to put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u278	This is counted. It's for confirmation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u279	But that's the name of the law, and we have to vote on it. I am voting on the adoption of the name of the law as proposed by the committee. Please vote. [[13:50:48]] For-51 Then there is the title of the bill in the previous edition. Is Sharov insisting on his amendment? What an amendment, Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u280	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I want to say that there are several heads of national sports federations here, including water sports, from game sports. I run the Federation of Academic Rowing. I can say that this law violates many very important questions related to the life and health of athletes. I'd like those amendments that have been made, they're not all adequate, they're not all normal. So let's just confirm them so that we can somehow intervene in some of the changes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u281	I'm going to say relatively inadequate amendments are all the amendments made by the opposition. They're adequate people. But please, we'll put it to the vote. We'll get to your amendment, then. I'm voting on the 3rd amendment, which is considered by the committee to confirm it. [[13:52:19.]] For-13. Correction not supported. So let's see, let's look at some of the amendments, then at the second again. I understand. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I now address my colleague Chechtov. Please, Mr. Mikhailo, remember that you are a doctor of science. And I'd like you to look, you've just done, you've broken the title of the bill, which the committee is absolutely right, considering my amendment, has counted. Now it was called the law: "To make changes to the Law on Physical Culture and Sports." [[on insurance for athletes during sports competitions]] Do you think it's written literately? They were complemented by the words "as regards life insurance and the health of athletes during sports competitions." Mr. Michael, you understand very well how a doctor-scientific is that it's the correct formulation, which is completely incorrect and I would like to warn you, to do better to make it fit. Nevertheless, you took and canceled, and your hand did not rise up, more faithfully, to the destruction of the healthy one that the committee had done. And this amendment, which Kostenko has now been removed, has been mistakenly removed. So look closely, remember what you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u283	Yes, please, Eugene Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u284	Dear colleagues! I have a big request, believe me, that there is nothing political about this bill. This refers to the health, indeed, of children, the health of athletes. Now we have a big problem not only with children's, youthful, for example, sports competitions, but it's already turned into the Olympics. Because everything that relates to the health of a sportsman's participation needs to be made very clear that, let's say insurance, don't let God deal with the injuries -- treat them adequately. I have a situation that has now arisen in the session room, an offer, let's take the second one again so that we can settle the committee again so that we don't crash the bill, but give it a chance. Because believe that this bill needs to be adopted because it refers to the health and life of our athletes, namely, the children and everyone in general who does it. Asking him to support and allow the bill to be further elaborated on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u285	Dear colleagues! Since a number of amendments are no longer supported, they need to be automatically returned to the second reading or simply refuse. So I'm voting on the proposal and I'd like to support the return of the bill to the second reading. Please vote. This is the second time again, the second time again. Yeah, yeah, twice the second. [[13:55:23]] For 325 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue this morning's session for 15 minutes. A draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports is being announced for consideration. [[on the position of a physical culture instructor in rural areas]] Dear colleagues, we have discussed this matter with great interest, and we should have adopted this law. Reporter Ivanenko Vladimir Grigorovich, head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u286	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting on 24 April 2012, the Committee considered a series of calls and proposals for legal entities to take the legislative initiative that came into the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 29 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[on the position of a physical culture instructor in rural areas]] [[Registration number 9102]] In all, six amendments were made. is suggested to take two corrections into account. Two adjustments are partially taken into account and two corrections are rejected. The committee supported Amendment No. 4 of the National Deputy Tomenka of Ukraine, which suggests that rural, rural councils create conditions for the participation of village residents, rural and active physical and sports activities, a healthy way of life, including through the introduction of proposals for the introduction of a physical culture instructor in rural, rural councils with a population of more than 3,000. I mean, on the one hand -- we're avoiding interference with authority of local self-government, on the other hand -- we're giving the largest village councils a signal about the need to support physical culture and sports. The Chief Legal Office points out that the project proposes to support the development of physical culture and sports by proposing the introduction of a physical education instructor. The proposed proposal does not take into account the structural construction of article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports, nor does it bring adequate legal and substantive pressure. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading of the bill and to accept it as a whole. The law takes effect, if supported, as of January 1, 2013. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u287	First amendment. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u288	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I understand that I do not care about the Head of the Supreme Council to comply with the Labour Code. In general, the state of the national MPs working on the bill. I'm paying your attention, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, that you can't. This volunteerism must be completed. By 14, so until the 14th, the Supreme Council works. With regard to this amendment, I propose that instead of the words "introduction of the position of an instructor from a physical culture in the form of performances" replace the words "establishing local self-government bodies in rural areas of the physical health centres of the population". This will be in line with the Law on Local Self - Rule, not interfering with this law. And you know that the principle of organizational autonomy of local governments is enshrined in the European Charter of Local Government, ratified by our law on July 15, 1997. And we owe it to him to keep it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u289	Amendment 1 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[13:59:33]] For-22. Correction not supported. Mikola Tomenko. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u290	Dear colleagues! I'd like to inform you about the negotiation process. And how we cooperated with sports organizations and with the Ministry in order to begin the restoration of physical culture and recovery in the village. I realize that one solution is not going to help us restore the entire network. In the first version, in the first reading, we predicted in each village council. We have 10,000 272 village councils. And with understanding I refer to both the government and the Minfin, which is, of course, a very serious load. After the discussion, we will propose such a formula, meaning to start with villages and rural councils, not villages, village councils, where there are more than 3,000 people. In fact, we're taking the basis, it's going to be something like Yuri Anatolyevich said, if you want this center, it's going to be about 3-4 villages or a very large village where we're restoring the position of instructor. The number of such positions will be less than 900. We think we can take this step, and then we'll be richer and we'll make money, the budget will go up, we'll move on a little bit. Another thesis. We're setting the date of January 1, 2013, with the understanding that this can only be a budget next year, because we need to prepare and work in this direction. So I would ask, taking into account these compromises that we've achieved both with sports organizations and with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, to support the committee's editorial work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, I'd like to support this project as we supported it during our first reading. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending article 29 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports in the second reading and generally as a law. [[on the position of a physical culture instructor in rural areas]] Registration number 9102. Please vote. [[14:02:06]] For-174 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. The factions, please. Let's see the factions. The Party of Regions - 19, "BUT" - "Fathership" - 64, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 22, Communists - 24, People's Party - 20, "Reforms for the Future" - 19, non-fractional - 6. There is a proposal to re-read the bill. [[2:02:49]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Region Party 28, "BUT" -70, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 23, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 6. Honourable National Deputies, the Committee has asked the Supreme Council to postpone consideration of the draft Law in view of the fact that it has been observed by the essential General Legal Authority and does not comply with article 116 of the Rules. [[Registration number 9268]] In view of this, consideration of this law is postponed. Honorary colleagues, when not in line with Rule 116 of the Rules, have the right to return the chairman to the committee for appropriate submission. Dear colleagues, the Committee has asked the Supreme Council to withdraw the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine to improve confiscation procedures as one that has lost its relevance. Maybe we should vote. Please, Vladimir Moysik, head of the committee of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u292	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! You know, from the point of view of law-making technology. You wait, maybe three or four hours after some bill, we come to him, he says, "Come on, don't come out." That's not the way to do it. Respect our time and our work. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you rightly said that on May 14, this year, the President signed the new Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. And these changes touch the old code that goes out of force. And in the new Code of Criminal Procedure, there is no mention of a special confiscation. So we suggest on the committee that we cancel the bill approval order on the first reading and remove it from consideration. That's the decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u293	Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote to adopt a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes. [[on improving confiscation procedures]] [[Registration number 9208/P3]] Please vote. [[14:05:35]] For 282 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a proposal for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[concerning the determination of the allocation of powers]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u294	The President-in-Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine commissioned the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to review at its meeting on 23 May the comments and suggestions that came from the subjects of the legislative initiative to the draft Act amending the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the bill deals with the internal organization of Kabminu's activities. It establishes, at the level of law, the powers of the government to determine the distribution of powers between vice-premiers, gives college government authorities the right to submit draft acts to the Cabinet of Ministers for its consideration and the same right for the Prime Minister, the First Vice-Prime Minister and vice-premiers, if they do not lead the Ministry. According to the committee’s work to consider the bill, the second reading prepared a comparative table containing 5 suggestions from national deputies, 2 of which are counted, 3 rejected. In particular, the committee proposes to clarify the title of the bill by drafting it as follows: "On making changes to Ukraine's Pro Kabmin Act." [[concerning the definition, distribution of credentials]] In the course of the discussion, I note that the proposal made by Jury Klukkowski was that the draft acts of Kabmin, which his leaders are introducing, should still be developed by the ministries and other central executive bodies under a clear procedure of government regulations, not simply to submit in five minutes with unknown authorship and without necessary reconciliation. I'd like the hall to pay attention to this right proposition. As a result of the discussion of the matter, the Committee approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of the draft Act amending Ukraine's Pro Kabmin Act as a result of a second reading review to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. [[Registration number 10274]] And I'm also trying to prove to you that colleague Hanushtszak also made his amendments, which unfortunately took place there was some sort of commission at the registration office, and they came back later than the committee had considered the document. So I can only say that it is. And if there's a decision in the hall, I'll read it too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u295	Dear colleagues! Since it is proposed that the name of the draft law be clarified, we should vote on this clarification that the committee has taken into account. The proposal for a name of the law in the proposed editorial committee is put to the vote. Please vote. [[14:09:13]] For 254 Decision taken. Amendment 2, Yuri Carmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u296	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I propose in section I of the bill in paragraph 1 of the first part of article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to replace the words "in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's mandate" with the words "in accordance with the distribution of powers determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the approved Supreme Council of Ukraine." Let us mention that the Constitution, which is now being used, is a Constitution that is returned by the Constitutional Court in an entirely unconstitutional manner. As a result, let us see that the rights of the Supreme Council must be respected. And let's respect the citizens of Ukraine who are now going to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the situation in Kiev is excited to protest the adoption of the draft Language Policy Act. As a result, I ask you to support my correction and not excite the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u297	Thank you very much. The committee considered the amendment. I fully agree with you that a serious meeting of our citizens is now taking place under the walls of Parliament. who are opposed to falsifying language politics in Ukraine. Sadly, though, the amendment does not correspond to the valid Constitution of Ukraine. That's why the committee rejected her.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u298	Just a minute. Vote number 2 of Yuri Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:11:21]] For-24 The amendment is not accepted. Demchishen insists on his amendment? No, it's not. Klukkowski? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u299	In my speech, I asked you to pay attention to this amendment, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u300	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u301	If you don't mind, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to vote on the amendment because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u302	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u303	Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m0.u304	Okay. Dear colleagues! Wait a minute! Amendment 5a, author is Yuri Klukkowski. The committee turned her down. She's voting for her support. Please identify yourself. [[14:12:13]] For-12. Correction not supported. I'm voting for a second reading proposal and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers on the definition of the distribution of powers. [[Registration number 10274]] Please vote. [[14:12:46]] For 260 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 4: 00 p.m., we will consider the matter according to schedule.
