ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. They registered in the 327 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, on November 11, 2012, a Ukrainian national deputy, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications, a member of the Party of the Regions’ deputation faction, a prominent producer organizer, President Pat "Azomash", a talented entrepreneur and scientist, a fine man, Alexander Volodymyrovich Savchuk. Please honor our colleague’s memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings since 6 November 2012. Thirty-three questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 12 laws and 4 decrees were passed, one bill was adopted on the basis of which one bill was sent to the Committee for Re-reading, one bill and five draft regulations were rejected. 22 parliamentary inquiries have been announced. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day of the birth of our colleagues, Welder Roman, Slug Vitaly, McKeen Volodymyr and Jaroshchuk Volodymyr. Please welcome our colleagues, wish them good health and success in their work. [[Applause]] On November 17, 2012, a meeting of Ukrainian lawyers was held in Kiev. Pursuant to article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 10, 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, the meeting of lawyers decided to appoint a member of the Supreme Council of Justice of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Temkizhev Igor Hazmuridovich. In accordance with article 17 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and article 217 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, before taking office as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, an oath is made at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Temkizhev Igor Hazmuridovich, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u2	I, Temkizhev Igor Hazmuridovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers, and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please welcome Igor Hazmuridovich. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have the opportunity to make presentations by authorized factions with statements, reports, information and queries. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Arsenius Yatsenuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please, your performance. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u4	The honourable members of the current parliament would like to start with the political moment of the so-called re-election. The Ukrainian opposition categorically denies the re-election in those districts where the Central Election Commission, along with the Party of the Regions, refused to establish the results of the vote. We understand very well that the motivation of the Party of Regions is only one: where they lost the election, they're going to run the election until the results of the election in favour of the Party of Regions are established through the forged protocols. That's why we're going to bring a case before the European Court of Human Rights in relation to all the districts where the Party of Regions, together with the Central Electoral Commission, refused to establish the legitimate will of the Ukrainians. But right now I would like to talk not about politics, but about the Ukrainian economy and about the devastating ruins of the name of Azarov and Janukovic, which not only came back, but what now really happened. This government has been refusing to come to Parliament for the last two months and to report on what is happening in the Ukrainian economy. Well, the opposition will take over the story of what Ukraine experienced through Azarov and Yanukovich. I'll start with specific numbers. First. This is a direct and guaranteed government debt schedule for Ukraine. During the past 2.5 years, the government of Azarov and Yanuković has made Ukraine twice as guilty as it was two years ago. Our debt amounted to 11,000 dollars per Ukrainian. The other one. The so - called Ukrainian economic stability is replaced by a steady decline in production in Ukraine. Look at this graph, the third month in a row, the Ukrainian economy is going down and the industrial production is going down, minus 0.9, minus 4.7, minus 7 percent and minus 4.2 percent. Third. Ukraine’s Gold Stocks A steady downward trend. More than $10 billion in the last year of the decline in Ukraine's gold reserves, less and less US dollars in government accounts, but more and more US dollars in offshore offshore accounts in Cyprus, where, by the way, President Janukovic drove. The average wage. Over the past three months, the steady decline in the average wage from 3,000,151 bracelets to 3,000,64 dollars. And this is the rate of Ukrainian currency, which is constantly falling, and the US dollar rate is steadily rising. Today we're talking about what instability in the Ukrainian economy means: the Ukrainian government and this Ukrainian President have brought the country and brought the economy not just into recession but into a stable state. Just when we were getting materials in the order of the Supreme Council of the day, I got an idea about how it would be useful to introduce 15 percent of the tax on the sale of the currency. I think the next introduction of this government is that if there's a food deficit in Ukraine, like today's dollar deficit, a milk deficit, meat deficit, they'll also put in taxes on purchases or on food purchases. Our position is next. First. We are definitely against the introduction of a 15 percent tax on currency sales. Because those with 72 billion offshore will not pay this tax, and the tax will be paid by Ukrainian citizens. The other one. We ask the government for a specific date when the budget is introduced and whether social standards will be met. Third. We demand the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u6	a clear report on the economic situation. The country is part of an economic recession and is under the responsibility of Azarov and Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u7	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Please, your performance. Next is the representative of the "BUT-"Paternity" faction, Alexander Bondar or who?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u8	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! On 28 October, at the time when the last voter placed a ballot paper in the urn, an auction of pre-election oligarchial generosity was completed. And he changed his warning about the need to tighten his seat belt because the crisis seems to be going nowhere and just picking up traffic. The decline in production and the rate of the bracelet, the rise in the price of bread and the sharp increase in sales of grain abroad, the mass heat cut in cities, the delay in payment of wages, pensions, all these harsh realities of post-election Ukraine, which could turn into a tragedy for millions of ordinary people, which we have constantly warned the communists. It is also a legitimate outcome of pre-election populism and the result of shameful cooperation with the IMF, a eloquent indication of the inability of the authorities and oligarchs to deal with crisis problems for the common people. The Nazi Commission, which regulates the value of the services of JCCs in the country, has clearly stated the low quality and overvalue of their services, is proposing a solution to the problem. What would you think? Increase tariffs on housing and utilities. Not to mention how to improve the quality of these services, so that batteries in winter homes do not freeze to keep children's gardens, schools and hospitals warm and bright. But these are also flowers, and berries are an offer of power: to fix a penalty for the early payment of public utilities to up to three hundred per cent. This is at a time when most people are unable to pay even current tariffs. And it would be fairer to put a penny in three hundred, and better, a thousand percent for officials, factory owners and factories, i.e. oligarchs delay payment of salaries and pensions. What moral right does the Government even have to complain about penetrating, raising tariffs, when today, there are about ten billion bracelets in the budget to pay teachers, doctors, university students and schools? How should people who are deprived of their money honestly pay for utilities? What do law enforcement teams, prosecutors, judges do? Why are bad lawbreakers and, in particular, article 43 of the Constitution, why are these violators resting on tropical beaches today rather than serving time for their crimes? Cynicism and insolence of the highest degree. In view of the situation, the faction of the Company requires, first of all, the immediate consideration and adoption of our bill on the moratorium on the increase of tariffs of the HQ. Secondly, according to existing legislation, those officials and owners who engage in wage fraud are held liable for default or delay in payment of salaries and pensions. It is absurd, for example, in the Rube Lugansk region. There, under threat of dismissal, the management of the Rubeban Heat Communnerge and the Rubeban Production Authority requested their employees to write statements in which they wished to waive discharges, i.e. qualifications. It is clear that without these supplements, the benefits are still not high. Respectable voters, of course, and a moratorium on increased public tariffs, and increased responsibility for late payment of salaries, pensions, scholarships, even the necessary measures, but they will not solve all the problems that have arisen in the community economy. We, the communists, propose, along with the imposition of a moratorium on price increases and tariffs, call for the adoption of a law on the return of strategic industries, including the energy complex, the infrastructure of the JCX. The next step should be to implement our proposed State energy security strategy, including accession to the Customs Union, which would significantly reduce prices for Russian energy carriers. In conclusion, I call once again on the members of all factions, as well as the Government, to consider and support our bill without delay, and to impose a moratorium on the rise of communal tariffs, and to renounce the imposition of dragon fines and pennies for the untimely payment of public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u9	It's now a performance from the "BUT" faction, "Fatherland" by Mikoli Tomenko. Then there's Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u10	Thank my colleague, Olga Bodnar, for passing the word. Dear colleagues, this is a historic day: as of today, there is a widely advertised Criminal Procedure Code. We call this KPC a code for the rich and against the absolute majority of citizens, because now, as in the early Middle Ages, when buying indulgences, you can now buy the right to commit a crime. And you can't get a simple man if he's hurt, even a free lawyer. This KPC is the abuse of the average Ukrainian citizen, and the abuse of each of the audiences in our room and beyond. Because if we're in line with the chapter "Indistinct Tracking," each of us from today can fall under this chapter. They keep a close eye on those present and gather information. Lawyers believe that passports should be used. This reminds me of the occupation regime. Apparently, the head of the district administration of the Cherka district was already hanging blue-white squares on his report to the right people to know where they were, where they were. [[He's donutic and knows more]] That's why we have Ukraine with passports soon to go with blue and white squares. So our position as expressed yesterday by Julia Timoshenko: such a KPC cannot exist, we will demand that it be cancelled. Arsenius Yatzenuk said about the 15% Hometic tax. I stand firm against it, it's not the Homutinika tax, it's the family tax, it's the family tax. We know that x controls banks in Ukraine, so the "family" has obviously wasted a lot on elections, decided from the citizens to take 15 percent. Friends, if we have a genre crisis, enter a tax on non-members of the Party of Regions or on those who speak Ukrainian. It should be assumed that they have not yet learned the regional language. We have a division of the KMDA Regional Party that has already introduced taxes into the rain. I think it'll be a good idea. Well, the post-election campaign is such a nightmare, I don't think your opponents were expecting, but your supporters were expecting. I want to take a look at the referendum bill. As a well-known Ukrainian aphorist named Mikola Azarov said recently, it takes them 10 to 15 years to stay in power. Obviously, the idea of a referendum is clearly in this pattern. They ran the election, CVK. The referendum, the CCE announced, elected the President forever in Parliament. I'm absolutely convinced that if this bill is signed, we're going to sue and explain to our citizens that the reform of the Pro referendum law is not democracy, it's clocracy to preserve today's clan in power. And finally. Friends, I have, when I hear more and more about the idea of re-election only in those districts where the Party of Regions has lost, I'm starting to tend more and more to the idea that we need to support the idea of re-election. But we need to support the idea of re-election throughout Ukraine by law on party open lists and, at the same time, with the re-election of the parliamentary term, to hold presidential elections for the term. This is the only chance to save the country, save the Ukrainian state and protect the Ukrainian nation and protect the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u11	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be Valérie Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u12	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is nearing completion in the next high school year. Because of its saturation and variety of events, it is essentially unique. And he will certainly be the subject of serious analysis and appropriate conclusions. I would like to highlight some important trends and features in international relations during this year and their place in Ukraine. International relations in 2012 have become even more pragmatic and competitive, and traditional words about common goals, values and standards are being overshadowed when it comes to practical benefits and mercantile interests. It shows the first visit of President Obama to South East Asia, the investment for the Belgian and Dutch capitals, not their own and their neighbouring countries, but in the dynamic economy of distant countries, it's not all coincidence. There is nothing random about the friendly and warm relationship between the actual owner of the euro, Germany, and the Russian Federation. [[Remember that the euro is printed in Düsseldorf]] If anyone wonders why Germany insisted on holding not one but the entire two EU-Russia summits in 2012, just in case I remind you that Germany's trade with Russia has increased by 35 percent last year and reached 100 billion euros, to compare: Ukraine with Germany is 7 billion. And the left-hand side of this increase is due to Germany's sales of its industrial product. Who? The Russian Federation. So, what is convenient to the Krupas and the Semins, politicians will do. And teaching and instructing about democratic processes is already the case with others. I'm consciously talking about these things because rigid pragmatism in world processes requires Ukrainian politicians, regardless of the color of the party flags, to perceive this pattern of behavior abroad, including our neighbours, and in the East and West, which in the middle of their country, are competing, they're finally cracking. But there's almost never any use of external factors in the internal political struggle to achieve party and corporate interests, because in that case, in most cases, they don't lose themselves or their internal opponents, the whole country loses in hard international competition. And since at least two topics in a relationship, such as the European Union, should unite us all. First. This is the signing of the Association Agreement, including the Free Trade Zone. But the effort of some of our opponents to prevent the EU from even initialling a treaty with Ukraine, which has become well known, is not a state position, it has to go back in time. And the second. Not politicians, but ordinary Ukrainian citizens need the only political position to achieve basic justice in the context of the unlimited possibilities of visa-free entry of citizens of the EU and other states into Ukraine, on the one hand. On the other hand, the removal of artificial and unjustified obstacles to the free movement of millions of Ukrainian citizens by Europe. If the reinforcement of all kinds of geopolitical triangles and poles and the re-establishment axes in world politics are not really up to us, then a consolidated external state platform is simply a command of time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u13	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Next from the Party of Regions will be the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u14	Dear fellow citizens! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" believes it is his duty to draw your attention to the problem of implementation into the national legislation of EU standards and requirements for citizens required to cross the border and accepted as such in connection with this Ukrainian law on the only national demographic register to which the President of Ukraine applies the veto. [[Registration number 10492]] We remind you that the law is now provided for: First. Replacing the current permanent passports of a citizen for ten years. The other one. Getting a passport from a child. Third. The creation of a demographic register in the form of an electronic database that provides for the collection of all data on Ukrainian citizens, including biometrics, by decision of a legally authorized body. And this could be a digitized image of a person's signature, maybe a fingerprint, maybe a picture of an eye retina, or an additional change of information. The law solves the issue of creating a system of complete and comprehensive control over the personal data and actions of Ukrainian citizens. The "Reforms for the Future" faction has spoken out, spoken out, and will take firm action against the adoption of any legislation aimed at the introduction of a complete electronic control system for Ukrainian citizens. We believe that the Single Demographic Register Act directly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular articles 32 and 35, the requirements of the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to automated processing of personal data bases, the EU Directive on the purpose of collecting personal data, international standards and standards in the field of privacy, as well as reducing the level of collective security of Ukraine, demeaning the honour and dignity of believers, including Christians. [[9546]] We are underlining that the Ukrainian National Demographic Register Act, referring to ICAO's requirements and Ukraine's accession to the EU's EU Plan of Action, is actually addressing a completely different issue: firstly, the business of individual officials in the area of production of documents and defence elements; secondly, total population biometricization; and thirdly, the development of an electronic control system for Ukrainian citizens. A few words about the real requirements of ICAO. Despite the fact that it is the demands of this organization that lobbyists justify the adoption of this law, it is likely that ICAO itself does not know what fortresses are being thrown out here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it does not require any interference with the internal document, nor a limitation on the duration of the documents, nor the creation of a system of total control with the citizens of the participating States and, moreover, does it require monopolizing the issue of passports with one structure, that is private. Moreover, in the list of standard biometric data, only the image of a digitized person is represented. However, fingerprints, retinal scans, and so forth are optional and optional. Unfortunately, the intervention of the President of Ukraine, who justly applied the veto to Law 10492, will not lead to the removal of the Law on the Single National Demographic Register from the above mentioned defects, because the law is not rejected, but only a number of observations have been made, particularly in articles 13, 16, 25, 26 and 29, which do not essentially change the law that requires a more thorough edition. In view of this, the MPs of Reforms for the Future, without supporting this law in either first or second reading, ask the Ukrainian National Deputies once again to weigh all the negatives of this bill and to vote against it, i.e. to reject it, I am trying to prove it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u15	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u16	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! On the initiative of President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine as a guarantor of human rights and freedoms and a citizen in April this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the new Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Today, on November 20, he gained legal strength. Ukraine has taken another important step to meet European standards of justice. The new KPC introduces equality and competition between the parties in the criminal process, strengthens the rights of the defenders, promotes the Ukrainian President's Law on Bar and Bar. From this day forward, no restrictions on the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens are possible without a judicial decision. A systematic review of the pretrial investigation is being carried out for this purpose in the courts to introduce the posts of investigating judges, a further investigation is being cancelled, with other democratic procedures increasing the number of justifiable sentences, from 0.2 per cent yesterday to 22-25 per cent of Europeans. There is an increase in the use of a precautionary measure, the introduction of a new institution called home arrest, and only those who commit violent crimes, including murder, rape and robbery, will be taken into custody. From this day forward, the new KPC cancels its appearance with duty and shows against itself as evidence of direct action. The legislator gave a clear signal to the law enforcement authorities: Do not beat, do not murder, for the court will not base such testimony on judgment. On the contrary, the president of Ukraine, at a meeting of law enforcement officials on November 13, stressed that in each case the use of physical influence on a citizen would be criminalized and the perpetrators would be held accountable. The procedure for entering the victim's rights is simplified. Yesterday, the decision of the investigator or prosecutor was necessary to obtain the victim’s status. From now on, a person who has applied for a crime automatically acquires the status of the victim and can exercise his or her rights. It will be a disgraceful practice in the past when citizens were held in custody for five to six years without a court sentence. The new KPC has set limits: keeping a minimum and average crime watch for up to 6 months, for serious or particularly serious crimes, up to 12 months. From this day forward, all those who are in the custody of the more mentioned terms will be released from custody. Since article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides for a reverse act of law that softens a person’s responsibility. The jury is being tried, there are restrictions on indiscretions, there is a reduction in the time frame of pretrial investigation, there are new institutes being introduced: the reconciliation agreement and the admission of guilt. The new KPC has undergone a large number of European legal expertise and has been approved by them both during the preparatory phase and after the adoption of its Supreme Council. In its resolutions, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe welcomed the active authority of the adoption of the new CPC. Regrettably, not only did the opposition not vote in favour of the KPC but today individual leaders of the opposition cynically stated that it should be lifted. In doing so, they confirmed their political credo: The worse for people, the better for them. I'm sure the Ukrainian people will take a firm stand against such adventurers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u17	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u18	A party of regions has repeatedly shown voters that it is capable of implementing programming commitments and is a political force that consistently pursues the policies of Ukraine’s European integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u19	Yes, thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We've completed your Faction and Group Steps. It is now necessary to make a decision on the organization of our future work before the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine begins. When, honourable colleagues, planned the work of today’s Supreme Council, the still valid Supreme Council for this plenary week, we came from the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine would submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a project of Ukraine’s State Budget for 2013. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers continues to work on the country’s main economic document for the following calendar year, including the reconciliation of macroeconomic indicators. And we've had a situation, fellow honourable Members: do we need to continue working in plenary mode throughout this whole plenary week? At the Conciliation Council meeting, the issue was discussed today, on Tuesday, November 20, to consider the bills proposed by the Government, the laws on which the President of Ukraine applied the veto and worked until the finalization of Tuesday's issues. And on the 21st, 22nd and 23rd of November, work on committees and factions to finish the work that needs to be completed. And since December 4, we have to have a plenary meeting. I ask, Your Honor, for proposals to change the calendar of the work of the Supreme Council to express its point of view. It will be discussed in accordance with the Rules, this issue, by a reduced procedure. Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Stretovic, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u20	I give the floor to the country's chief radical, Mr. Laishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u21	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u22	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you, Mr Stretovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, what have they done? The election's over, so you don't have to work anymore? Do we have few questions to consider? And my bill on the release of political prisoners: Timoshenko, Lucenko? You're resting here, and they're in jail for nothing. What about the bill you're here to introduce taxes, especially for the sale of currency? This, by the way, is known to Ukrainian citizens who voted in favour of the Party of Regions. You know, there's this good Ukrainian saying, "You saw the eyes you were buying, eat and don't give up!" That's 6 million people voting for the regionals -- now they're paying you back -- getting the last money you made out of your pockets on a black day, and now they want 15 percent of the tax. I believe that in this Supreme Council, this Supreme Council is so sinful that all of the previous five councils have not acquired as many sins as the present - day Council under the leadership of the puppeteer, the handmaiden. [[I don't want to call him his last name.]] That's why I'm talking to the current majority. The Supreme Council needs to adopt an immediate law on the release of political prisoners – once on tax cuts, not on the introduction of new taxes, but on the reduction of taxes so that business can work; on the loss of credit, on job creation, on the restriction of access to Ukrainian imports, on the lending of housing for young people, on the payment of children to war, on disabled persons, on pensioners. That's what the Supreme Council is supposed to do instead of gathering one day like last week, 5 billion dollars in debt went up and split. Today, they want to re-adopt lobby laws and break up again by December 4 to re-absorbed the budget. I believe that this Supreme Council has no right to adopt a new budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u23	Yes, please, Dmitri Spinov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I think the elections have ended, the page has been reversed, and we must probably set an example from the most democratic country in the world, the United States of America. When the election was over, he said, "Yesterday we were rivals, but we were never enemies. But we worked together in America and we'll work together. The electoral page is over." Therefore, in terms of reasonableness and reasonableness, it is absolutely right that we today have to work full-time. The most pressing issues, the pernicious issues that were not tolerated in the consideration and adoption were raised. Further, the Supreme Council of this office should finish its work on a major note by adopting the budget. The Cabinet of Ministers is now refining the budget. As soon as the budget is in place, we will need to gather, consider and adopt this budget. And then, Vladimir Mihajlovich said, put the final point in the work of this Parliament on the last day. Therefore, a perfectly reasonable, completely efficient rational schedule today, submitted for consideration — the Party of the Regions supports, I repeat — to work all day today, then close the session today and meet in the hall, the budget will be ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, who else insists on factions that are entitled to one minute? None. So I'm going to say it again. The faction has already taken place! Oh, no. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. I didn't. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u26	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues! You know, with our participation, we're actually confusing the outcome of the election today. You know, in order for the second stage of the vote to be held today, there are four bills to be submitted to the Supreme Council. Basically, of course, the opposition. And one from the Party of Regions. I spoke about this at the Conciliation Council yesterday, and today I feel it necessary to consider these four bills. Because today, the Central Election Commission washes its hands and chases the ball into our half. And you and I did, by the way, just as unprincipled, sending it all away for consideration by the CBC. Of course, this is the competence of the Central Electoral Commission. But it would be good for the Supreme Council to put a solution in this regard. I must insist, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on behalf of the faction, that these four laws be considered. There are all the political segments that are in our Parliament. That's why I think it should go civil and normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! We talked to you about making changes to the calendar plan. With regard to the proposals that were made, including regarding the reelections in these districts, the faction of the Conciliation Council strongly opposed the consideration of the matter before all circumstances were clarified. So I would like to have one point of view from this point of view. As for decisions that are critical, or proposals, to decisions that are criticized, the very question is what we need today, our honourable colleagues, to hold as few plenary meetings as possible before the beginning of the work of the new Supreme Council. To avoid giving people gifts in the form of decisions that have just been discussed. Which is considered unacceptable. So let's just take a single line and stick to it. Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 19 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I will put to the vote a proposal to amend the calendar work plan of this Supreme Council, namely: On Tuesday, 20 November, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary until the finalization of Tuesday's scheduled issues, i.e. on 20 November. 21, 22, 23 November -- work on committees and factions. Finishing the job. Summary. 4 numbers, i.e. 4 December is a plenary job. If there is no government budget, this will be the last meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If there's a budget, then we'll be working on the state budget between 4 and 7 December. Is the offer understood? So again. I'm betting on a motion to change the calendar of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's sixth call. On November 20th, plenary work, the meeting takes place until the day's agenda is completed. 21, 22, 23 November -- work on committees and factions. December 4th, as foreseen in the plan, plenary work. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:41:04]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. Honorable National MPs. The factions? Please. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the factions, the painting is: Region Party – 181, "BUT - "Patkaščina" – 2, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 1, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the inclusion of a daily set of bills. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service is put to the vote. [[on pay]] [[Registration numbers 11401, 11401-1]] Please vote. Take down the vote. Please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I propose not to support these two bills and I come from the following. Those who proposed the law really understood before the elections the need to finance the law with a minimum of 23 billion bracelets. The elections were held, i.e. by the promises of regular officials, officials who had to vote in favour of the political forces that had naturally procrastinated them. Now that it has become clear that all those promises made generously to the left and to the right with regard to stability and well-being are failing, the proposal is now being made not to finance this law, beginning on 1 January of the following year. Here you are, respected officials, and Jury's day for you, and of course, by serving and resolving matters using administrative resources, you faked the election results for your future life, here you are. Therefore, the Company's faction would not vote in favour of these draft laws, and invited the rest of the people's deputies not to vote. They passed a law on 1 January that they should finance it, give and require the Government to fully finance the law on 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u29	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u30	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski. It's a rare situation when I support Peter Simonek's position on these bills. The essence of these bills is that the law goes into effect on 1 January of the following year, a little more than a month later, but not part of the pay. Thus, the vast army of government officials, the vast majority of whom are low-paid employees of the central ministries, and the ranks of district and district government officials will find themselves in more difficult working conditions. Because the requirements for public service are being strengthened by this law, in a more dangerous situation, from a risk perspective, especially in the context of our prosecutorial and law enforcement system, to apply the Corruption Act to them, but without adequate compensation in the form of an increase in wages. This is a very unfair approach. I think it would be possible to consider the delay in the implementation of the whole law, but not the part that relates to pay. So I urge everyone who has no concern for the standard of living of the masses of Ukrainian citizens not to support this bill. What's more, it's really going to be a gift after the election for a large number of people who, as government officials, have been forced to bear administrative resources, now they're being thanked in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u31	Yes, Olga Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u32	Thank you, Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko's Yulia Block is Fatherland. I would like to say, Your Honor, that this is a continuation, a logical extension, of that policy of the Party of Regions and its appreciation for its citizens in Ukraine. It started with the Chinese who were raised to the price of bread, because the Chinese chose democracy, and now they're continuing with government officials. And those who have not eaten this bread of a public servant may think that it works very well here. I want to tell you that in this case, the standard of lifelong slavery is laid down. And I'll tell you more, a person who thinks he's an expert can't work here under these conditions. Because my colleague Klukkowski correctly said that such beastly serious rules were being introduced, which I firmly opposed when the law was being voted on. I think we should cancel it at all. In addition to the fact that the demands are large and the wages are not what they are, they will simply be copied. Do you remember when in Soviet times all intelligence went into reality and went to the boiler room to work? So I think normal people are going to be working there now because it's going to be quieter and the wages are going to be higher. And all citizens of Ukraine will be amazed at the help of government officials, and why such unskilled assistance. Look, an expert can't stand the conditions that are laid down in these laws, they can't be voted on. And please, citizens of Ukraine, note that this does not only apply to civil servants, primarily to all Ukrainian citizens. Because you are making direct contact, either by activity or by life, with government officials who will not be able to provide you with qualified assistance today. They'll just be gone. They'll die like dinosaurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to the National Service Act of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on pay]] [[Registration numbers 11401, 11401-1]] Please vote. [[10:47:36]] For 236 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Party of Regions" – 187, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 0, "The People's Party" – 18, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, "non-factional" – 11. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning voluntary payment of a single contribution. [[Registration number 11266]] Please vote. [[10:48:19]] For 259. Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on ensuring access to court decisions]] [[Registration number 11215]] Please vote. [[10:48:53]] For 237 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to further improve the administration of taxes and congregations. [[Registration number 11284]] Change the vote. Please sign up. People's MP Melnik. Is he refusing to speak? Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I have not been able to speak before, I would like the entire country to know that now the Criminal Procedure Code, as it began to work, has not yet been accessible to the single register of judicial investigations provided for in this Criminal Procedure Code. The system is blocked and paralyzed, the law enforcement system. Another tens of thousands of investigators are still needed to unlock it. So what I'm saying is that this is all just another attack on people's rights, on the rights of victims. Now, as far as this bill is concerned. So this bill proposes to amend tax administration and create conditions for taxpayers to even "cash" the business. Because there are changes to the laws on external economic activity, on the order of accounting in foreign currency, on the application of accounting registers in the field of trade, public nutrition and services, on the Law on State regulation of production and circulation of alcohol, on the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. I think we should make that decision and consider it, and then we can't vote with a wave of hand. Because the projects in question do not contain any grounds for amending the Budget Code, which is absolutely inconclusive. Only what we know today is that there was a preeminent, the main owner of Azarov and Janukovitch, before the execution was empty has none. There is no information in the explanatory notes on the agreement of this bill with the relevant public authorities, and this is simply not the case with projects. So I urge you not to include such in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u35	Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u36	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the environmental congregation is being transferred from a special fund is evidence that the government does not understand at all what a special fund is and how we are doing with taxes and their use. Today’s scheme forces local self - government authorities to take steps to reduce the environmental impact, that is, those conservation measures that are taking place. If we transfer to the general fund, the environmental situation in places where there are problems where this tax is paid will only get worse, because it's practically kind of a ransom. So we're not going to do that. It's definitely not possible to do this because it's the very essence of funds to make those negative influences that are to be compensated in some way. And I'll say it on occasion. Today, draft 9714-1 is introduced into the agenda for the second reading, which according to its explosive activities, which are commensurate with the Language Act, is a bill that provides for the ruse of kindergartens. Please don't stop him! Get him out of the day's work, move him to a new session, and you'll be dealt with with with "Freedom." Because this cannot be done, at the very end of the work of this Parliament, they decided to remove the bomb and blow it up. This is the price for the Communists to enter the majority in the next Supreme Council. Don't do this. Ukraine won't forgive you. Do not do this wrong for Ukraine, take this project out and do not consider it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u37	Dear National Deputies! There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to further improve the administration of taxes and congregations. [[Registration number 11284]] Please vote. [[10:54:31]] For 227 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the further improvement of the administration of taxes and congregations is put to the vote. [[Registration number 11285]] Please vote. [[10:55:03]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! There is now a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft law on the disposal of vehicles removed. But we have here, your honors, a whole series of drafts. I'll read you the numbers: 11259, 11260. Next: 11437, 11443 and one minute, and 11442. I'll explain right now. Just calm down. It's still separate here. Dear colleagues! Bills introduced — 11259, 11260 — The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduced these bills, which are virtually alternatives. So it's, it's suggested, one minute, I'll tell you what, then you'll do it. Take your time, don't get hot. Therefore, a proposal is made to consider putting them as a package in the order of the day. And then we'll look at them separately. For this reason, please sign up for the performance. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u38	Please pass it to Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u39	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u40	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the post-election gift begins again. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Bill 11260 was introduced on November 20, 2012, today. Please tell me, how could he get into the agenda that was formed yesterday by the Conciliation Council? You didn't tell me to register all the other bills that have later numbers. Please tell me, what kind of stohanov movement is "communist work" when the bills are only hot, only baked, not yet out of the printer, and we're already putting them in the agenda when we only have to work today and December 4th? I propose not to do these tricks, because they are obvious and the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call at the end of its work becomes a complete smile in front of all the people and in front of the whole world.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u41	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u42	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT", Troyshina. I fully support my colleague Klukkowski, and he made his position very clear. It's completely compatible with it. Actually, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're on the Conciliation Council, but we had one agenda. All the questions raised by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality are excluded. It's not all there. It's all cooled down, instead of leaving one, one, one, one, one position that you could, by the way, not accept today. So I'm just, I don't know if I'm going to get to the bottom of this, but I want to say the same thing about another sneaky, literal bill that wants to contradict the party of power today, the Party of Regions is a bill on currency exchange taxes. You can imagine, even when passports were introduced to present passports, it fell by half a billion currency exchange, or shadow. Now this bill of Homutinika, more specifically the Party of Regions, which proves that the execution is completely empty and will soon be taxed, let's say, for using Ukrainian or Ukrainian words, for breathing air and so on. This is going to create a huge shadow market, and the state won absolutely nothing out of it. Because of that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, remove all of these, I would say the vile laws that they want to adopt today. I insist!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u43	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u44	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I would like to comment on what has been said before me. The fact is that when there was a “stahanov movement” and when the Communist labour brigades were working, it was of benefit to the State, the people, that was clearly the case. So your comparison is incorrect. These bills have not been passed for the benefit of the people, not for the benefit of the State, so it is not necessary to compromise the light of the Soviet past, but rather to criticize today's sad, disgusting bourgeois reality. These bills are, of course, directed against the people. People are listening to our broadcast from the hall today, and it is not clear to them that anyone who takes off a registration car that needs to be thrown out will have to pay 5,000 bracelets. It's for a light car. Automobiles will have to pay $38,000 for the so-called disposal fee. It is clear, therefore, that the government that is on the verge of bankruptcy is trying to collect kopecks. But once again, to collect kegs from the pockets of our miserable people, who are just being bullied. I don't think Parliament should be involved in this abomination. Therefore, of course, such bills should not be included in the agenda. I therefore propose to vote against the inclusion of these bills on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u45	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to discuss the matter, hear comments or suggestions on the substance of the bill, rather than general emotions and talk about what is good, what is bad. This bill on the disposal of us was scheduled for March 15, 1998. Take the law into your hands and read it. The law is called "The Wastes." The point was that by amending this bill eight times, we talked about the time when the technological overload of our land would result in us having to go back to the question of utilization, including transport. Because this mess that's running around in the yard right now is cadmium in the ground six-valent chromium, it's mercury, lead, it's a decomposed plastic that our kids breathe in the summer when they're walking. Clearly, then, the law must be put into the order of the day, considered, and supported. I'm not talking about the political component of this bill anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u47	Dear National Deputies! Why did these three bills appear to the government, and why is this order of work for us today? At the Conciliation Council meeting, when we discussed the issue with you and agreed that the Supreme Council should work in plenary mode on Tuesday 20 November, it was suggested that only to take up the bills proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers or the President of Ukraine and to form a single agenda. So there have been obvious changes, and I would ask for understanding. With regard to the bills introduced today by the Cabinet of Ministers. The thing is, there are complex negotiations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on this issue, and you know what decisions have been made by the Russian Federation that have hurt the Ukrainian car industry. And in order to make decisions in Russia and Ukraine alone, there is an agreement between governments and we need to adopt laws on this issue. So I would ask you, dear colleagues, not to seek politics where it is not. If we want to do worse for people who give jobs and pay taxes, let's do worse with your political ambitions. But before that, I'd like you to read these documents. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws. [[Registration number 11259, 11437, 11442, 11443 and 11260]] Please vote. [[11:04:44]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, now one more question, which, yes, I now announce, only. This bill of the Law has already been discussed. This is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on foreign currency transactions. [[Registration number 11433]] You're given both reasons and this document. So I would like to sign up to express my point of view on this legislative initiative. Please sign up for the performance. Olga Bodnar, BUT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u48	Please give a voice to Tomenko's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u49	Mikola Tomenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we've been paying attention to both the economic and financial and the political elements of the bill. I wanted to take another look at the organizational component. We're in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Assembly now meeting once every two weeks. I would like to point out that the bill is registered exactly yesterday and today it is in the order of the day. I wanted to draw attention to the position around the expert board, which once again highlights the inadequacy and madness, well, I'm so conditionally translating the language of lawyers, the madness of the bill. I want to remind the Party of Regions and its fraternal structures when the idea arose in a crisis to introduce a half-percent tax to support the Pension Fund, which hysterically stood in the session room of the Party of Regions about the destruction of the Ukrainian people. Today, when I look at what the Party of Regions is doing and you're going through Kiev so quietly at night, and I see that in the worst times in the Ukrainian capital, there weren't so many MAFs. And I have the impression that you're bringing the country back to a period of speculation and a period when everyone was taking astrologers and sorcerers, and the people were walking from underground changing money, how successful and active the Party of Regions worked that today you're legalizing the market, and you've turned Ukraine into one big market. Because that's the number of maggots that are in Kiev today and in the district centers because that's the one. You know, the district police officer, the district attorney, some other cleric. So once again, we will print and report on every person who voted for the family tax of the family of Viktor Yanukovic. That's how we interpret this bill against people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u51	Anatoly Griesenko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Then there's the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! First of all, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I am addressing you under no circumstances that this bill should be adopted today as a whole. I'm officially under the transcript, and I'm saying that I, National Deputy Anatoly Grizzenko, have an amendment to the second reading. This is a legal basis for you not to put him to the vote in general today. I want to use my right even under a reduced procedure, if it's a week, but not a whole one. That's the first one. The second is about the bill. I don't know why a party of regions in Homutinika's person decided to take revenge on people who did wrong by those people who, in the face of a constant permanent crisis and bank mistrust, bought themselves some 200, some 300, who were 700 dollars for some of the essential needs. Someone for surgery, someone for teaching children, someone for treatment, maybe just to survive. And now these people want to steal 15 percent. This is a tax that has no right to be approved after the start of the budgetary process under our Budget Code -- first. The other one. There's no logical, economic, and there's no reason. Because when there is a lack of confidence in the economy, in power, in the bracelet, there is a need for incentives to restore trust, not by illicit means. In the end, if the National Bank or the government or the Naftogaz NAC wanted to get extra dollars, it would be necessary to introduce taxes to those who buy, not to those who sell. That is, economic absurdity and pure revenge that will strike at the poorest of our population. I'd like people to hear what a gift a faction of the Party of the Regions has prepared for them. It's my job not to put this bill in order of the day. And if you do everything, then under no circumstances, I appeal to the Chief of the Supreme Council again, not to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u53	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" willfully set out in a position, we stand firm against the adoption of this bill. I'd like to explain our position next. First. We think that this is nothing but a social diversion against the population of Ukraine. The other one. You can't put a tax on money. No nation in the world even tried to do so. Let us not do as we did in the United States after a major depression in 1934 when all the gold was taken from the population. But then it was based on the collapse of the national economy or the default of the national economy. The same was done by Lenin, Trotsky or Sverdlov in 1922-1923, when they drained all the currency that was in the population. But this was based on the collapse itself or the default. Let me remind you that according to the official reports in Ukraine, there is neither a collapse nor a crisis nor a default. Why should such bills be made? If we want to subtract dollars from the population, as you can see everywhere, let's just adopt a law that takes away all the currency reserves of rubles, dollars, pounds of everything that is: the euro, dollars is all that's in the population. And that's how we're going to solve this. Next question. This law will clearly lead to the formation of the so - called black market. And that black market that we saw at the end of the Soviet Union is going to be a little child in terms of what's going to happen now, because the population today has about 42-45 billion dollars lying under pillows, and otherwise they won't sell it. Above all, this bill does not address the issue of the removal of this tax from oversized industrial groups that will solve the issue of money transfers to purchase objects in Ukraine for dollars that are not taxed and then put into effect in the internal market. And the last. This bill contradicts 9 articles of the Ukrainian Tax Code, which means that public taxes and congregations that are not covered by the Code are not subject to payment. We will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u55	Stanislaw Arzhivetin, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet begun to discuss this issue, and in society we have already had a very serious reaction and we have no right not to pay attention to it. Please tell me, when we were honest with you, when we were trying to convince our Ukrainians a few months ago to save money -- that's a lot of money. We've also been able to issue the currency certificates of the National Bank, the currency securities of the Cabinet of Ministers without tax. And now that we're introducing, in fact, a 15 percent monetary tax on citizens, I don't think that's a consistent governmental position. We do. Such laws are generally adopted when the country's official default and the country announces them, the authorities announce them. So we haven't announced the default yet, so of course we don't have the right to implement the foreign exchange confiscation. By the way, that week you and I took a currency confiscation in exchange for a bracelet in legal persons. Now is the time for individuals. Let us not adopt such bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u57	Oleg Easy, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. This bill on the introduction of 16 percent of the currency for sale is evidence of one — the absolute failure of today’s government and government. They're political, they're economic bankruptcys that show that they're incapable of economic reform or anything, they're only capable of robbing the Ukrainian people. Here, people who are good, respected citizens, draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u59	Yes, please, one minute. Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u60	Respectable people's deputies, the Communist faction will not support the bill, on the basis of the following. First. The introduction of this tax does not address the main challenge: the replenishment of the budget and the Pension Fund. These tasks are addressed in a completely different way: creating new jobs, raising wages, detoxifying wages and so on. It's a lobbyist and, more importantly, a corrupt law for conversion centers and so-called street change. That is to say, this will lead to an even greater tension of the foreign exchange market. Moreover, in the context of the crisis, additional taxes are imposed on exporters, i.e. the laundering of working capital by enterprises. This will exacerbate the situation in these enterprises. Moreover, in fact, by its actions today, the authorities are pushing business leaders to cooperate with the so-called conversion centres and then criminalize them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u62	We will vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We finished the discussion. I think in this way: you should listen to the arguments that have been made here -- I have just consulted with the head of the committee -- and postpone consideration of this issue. Calm down! I'll give you an example, and you'll calm down! But to raise the practice that was introduced in 2000 on the proposal of the government of Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka to introduce currency tax, fur, jewelry, cars. There were smaller percentages, but it was done. That's why the problem, dear colleagues, is to study more deeply, to look at the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And there will come wiser national MPs, let them make decisions. So at the suggestion of a committee that asks not to consider this issue right now. I suggest we postpone his consideration. Don't shout. Ladies and gentlemen, we need you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, Your Honor, you can scream as much as you want, well, we're going to vote now, you won't support, four numbers will introduce the same bill and you'll vote. So I'd like to ask you to listen to the smart things I'm telling you, and that's it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u64	I'm just acting under the Rules, you read it, you can put the matter on the table for a proposal from the Committee. So calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Yuri Romanovich. Dear colleagues, calm down. We need to consider two laws that the President of Ukraine has applied to the veto. Since they are extremely sensitive, I would ask that we consider these bills, especially as they relate to the implementation of our EU agreements on visa-free promotion, visa-free treatment. So let's look at this as a brief procedure -- this is the Ukrainian Act on Change in the Data Protection Act of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 14.11.2012. [[Registration number 10472-1]] Yuri Miroshnichenko, please. Then Maxim Lutsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u65	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Act amending the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act adopted by the Supreme Council on October 2, 2012 cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. [[Registration number 10472-1]] First, the Head of State considers it unacceptable to entrust an authorized personal data protection body with powers of technical regulation and standardization in the field of personal data protection and implementation in this way of technical regulation and standardization in this area. The proposals are not in line with the Standards, Technical Rules, and Procedures for Evaluation and Conformity Act. According to what technical regulations are designed to protect human life and health, national security, environmental protection, the prevention of bad practices, and so forth. The protection of personal data by its very nature has nothing to do with the protection of human life or the removal of barriers to trade. Since it is not possible to introduce technical regulation and standardization in the field of personal data protection, it is unacceptable to rely on an authorized public authority for the protection of personal data. Secondly, the law-authorised State Data Protection Authority is empowered to develop order and requirements for the protection of personal data in public information resources. It should be noted that the resolution of the issues noted by the Law on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine is referred to as the authority of the service. Then, the implementation of the proposed law will lead to duplication of powers by the executive authorities. Which doesn't fit the rules of formation, liquidation and reorganization of the central executive bodies. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u66	From the Maxime Lutsky Committee, please. Stepan Davemuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The proposals by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council on October 2, 2012, came to the committee on November 14. The committee planned to consider them at the next meeting on November 21, 2012. The committee has not taken a decision on the support or rejection of the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The President's proposals relate to two points. The first point is related to violations of certain laws and is correct. And in the second part of the second part, it's very important, it's about duplicating certain functions by the executive bodies. These suggestions, I think, are right, they're worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? No, it's just a vote. You've already talked, that's all. No speeches. This is the President's veto. We need, honourable colleagues, to consider the proposal made by the President of Ukraine that paragraphs 9 and 11 of paragraph 2 of section 18 of and the law should be deleted and, therefore, amend the other provisions of the law in order to eliminate duplication. Because of such minor amendments, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a law in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine with the commission of a committee and the Chief Legal Authority when preparing for signature to make appropriate adjustments in relation to the decision taken in other articles, I mean, the decision taken by the Supreme Council. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:23:29]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian National Demographic Register Act is now under review with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 19.11.2012. [[Registration number 10492]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[11:24:06]] For 214 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u69	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Adopted by the Supreme Council on October 2, 2012, the Law on the Single Demographic Register and documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship certify a person or his or her special status cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons: [[Registration number 10492]] First, the law provides for the issuance of a large number of documents to be used in Ukraine. For their formulation, it is envisaged that the only national demographic register will be used to identify the individual and confirm his or her special status. It should be noted that along with documents such as driver’s license, refugee’s license, emigrant’s card, the law also mentions other documents that identify and confirm a person’s special status as defined by Ukraine’s laws, but do not specify their name. Secondly, it does not comply with article 35 of the Constitution of Ukraine with the rule of law, which only declares the right of persons who, because of their religious beliefs, refuse to submit information to a non-contact electronic medium implemented in the relevant forms of documents. In the Constitution of Ukraine, respected colleagues, every human being is guaranteed the right to freedom of worldview and religion. Thirdly, they do not meet the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organization standards of the law on the possibility of extending the period of validity of a seaman's licence and issuing a crew member's licence for up to five years. Fourthly, the Head of State considers it unacceptable to amend the Budget Code, according to which the fees for administrative services are proposed to refer to the own revenue of the budgetary institutions. Since the fees for such services are part of the income of the State Budget General Fund. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the President’s proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u70	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. The committee will be represented by Victor Terrence's first deputy chairman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting considered the President's proposal and the main one. This is about the fact that earlier in the law adopted by the Supreme Council, for all believers who protested, sent letters, their right to renounce the biometric information document was declared in the law. We, in the law adopted by the Supreme Council, have provided for this right, but it was written in a declaration. Now, the President is proposing not only to consolidate this right, but to fully prescribe a mechanism of implementation: how can a person who, by reason of his religious beliefs, does not want to have a biometric passport. That is, an application is made to the appropriate body. This mechanism is fully defined and so forth. That is, the position of believers is fully taken into account. I think it's the right thing to do, and it's long overdue. The other one. Its position is foreseen by the law, the issuance of a large number of documents. In particular, I will also issue other documents, along with the documents provided for using the register. This, in the President’s view, would be disproportionate, from a legal point of view, unwarranted pressures on the budget of each family. This position also coincides with the position of the committee. We felt that there was absolutely no need for undue pressure on the budget of each family in connection with the extradition, perhaps unnecessary, of a biometric nature. Third. The EU's non-alternative requirement is for Ukraine to introduce identification travel documents with electronic biometric information in accordance with ICAO standards. All I can say is that it is absolutely permanent and the requirement of the EU countries that Ukraine have biometric passports otherwise we do not see a visa-free regime. In other words, the committee agreed with the President's proposals and believes that this law is needed by Ukraine and proposes to adopt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u72	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There is a motion for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the "One National Demographic Register and Documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certifying the person or his or her special status", taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:29:19]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to now consider a number of draft laws in the second reading mode. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the Trust Fund for Preservation of Preservation Obligations for Cereals]] [[Registration number 9611]] The rapporteur is a member of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Vasil Vasilovich Czerni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For your consideration, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Guarantee Fund for the Enforcement of Presidious Grain Obligations since December 19, submitted by the Ukrainian National MP, Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, is proposed for your second reading. [[Registration number 9611]] The bill is designed for the purpose, at the legislative level, of developing a mechanism for the creation, organization, and operation of a guarantee fund for the fulfilment of obligations under the warehousing documents. To make the use of the stock documents on grain attractive to the creditors of the Ukrainian agrarian complex by protecting the interests of the owners of the stock documents on grain, in case of the failure of the grain warehouse to return the grain to storage. The reason for this is the significant risks that are possible when grain is stored and not all of these risks can be eliminated by traditional insurance methods. Avoiding the consequences of improperly carrying out their obligations under the warehousing documents on grain, the introduction of mutual grain insurance can only help. The legislative introduction of the proposed conditions in the bill will contribute to the effective interaction of banking, insurance, manufacturing and trading systems in the Ukrainian grain market, access to short-term credit resources, ensuring the quality of production and the reliability of relationships, access to external markets, the development of insurance services and credit mechanisms. Thus, after considering the legislative initiative submitted by the entities to the second reading of the proposal for a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in general or partly included 36 amendments, 6 amendments were rejected. [[on the Trust Fund for Preservation of Preservation Obligations for Cereals]] The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. [[on the Trust Fund for Preservation of Preservation Obligations for Cereals]] [[Registration number 9611]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, no objection? No one insists on their amendments? Amendment 15. Yuri Carmazin insists on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u75	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, most of my amendments are taken into account and I will not insist that I now stand up for my amendments to this law, most of which I do not have in the hall. And I thank the author and the members of the Agrarian Policy Committee for taking the amendments into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It is up to the vote to propose a second reading adoption committee and, as a whole, as a law, a draft law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the Trust Fund for Preservation of Preservation Obligations for Cereals]] [[Registration number 9611]] Please vote. [[11:33:35]] For 232 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! I suggest that you consider the draft Act amending section X of the Code of Landscaping. [[on the settlement of the question of the conduct of trade]] Reporter, once again, Black Basil Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u77	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the draft draft amending bill for section X of the Code of Land of Ukraine. [[on the settlement of the question of the conduct of trade]] [[Registration number 11261]] And notes that when the bill was drafted for second reading to the committee, only 3 proposals were made by the legal entities, of which 2 were taken into account. The proposals taken into account, which are designed to improve its substance, are, in particular, proposals that regulate the duration of the bill, and in article 136, part 4, paragraph 2, of the Land Code, article 136, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Code of Land, provide that the preparation of the Lotes for the conduct of the land trade includes the State registration of the land and the State registration of the goods right to land. The appropriate actions regarding the state and municipal property registrations referred to in the project will become possible after the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act of 1 January 2013 on State Land Cadastre and on State registration of real estate rights and their burdens. To date, when preparing the Lots for the listed trades, the project proposes to include the identification of the cadastral number of the plot in order to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It should also be noted that a second-reading bill takes into account the observation of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority in the definition of the terms of the new "Transitional Positions" of the Ukraine Code of Land. The main legal administration is being set up without notice, so please support this project in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u78	One amendment, Sergey Sass, do you insist on it? Microphone. Don't insist. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Code of Land. [[on the settlement of the question of the conduct of trade]] [[Registration number 11261]] Please vote. [[11:36:37]] For-36 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Please use fractions: The Party of the Regions – 12, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, National Party – 2, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 1. A draft Act amending the Ukraine Land Code is being announced for consideration. [[on the circulation of agricultural land]] [[Registration number11315]] The rapporteur is the head of the Grigory Committee. And Be Bevenko's gonna report it? Please, the committee secretary.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee considered a draft draft amending bill for Ukraine's Land Code for the second reading. [[on the circulation of agricultural land]] [[Registration number11315]] And notes that in preparing the bill for the second reading to the committee, 12 proposals were made by law enforcement entities, 5 of which were rejected - 7. The rejected amendments are amendments that refer to the duration of the moratorium on the alienation of agricultural land. The committee proposes to establish a moratorium on the purchase and sale of agricultural land until the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on the Circumstances of Agricultural Land. It should also be noted that a second-reading bill takes into account the observation of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority as part of the stated deadline for the development of the draft Law on Circumstances of Agricultural Assignments. The Committee proposes to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within a period of six months, to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act on the Circumvention of Agricultural Lands. Please support this bill in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u80	Yeah, let's go after the repairs. 2 revisions. Vladimir Kaplanka, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u81	I want to say the following, if my amendment is not accepted, but Mr. Carmazin's 2015 amendment will not be put to the vote, I do not insist on voting on my amendment, 15th year is entirely satisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u82	Okay. Mikola Tomenko, third amendment, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention, because this is a matter of principle, and I would say that one of the most important issues today is the possibility of stopping the land affair, which was so advertised by the President's immediate surroundings, has already been painted by the artist, what land they're buying and how much they're going to buy. So I want to thank our citizens to those who understand that this affair could have resulted in irreparable consequences, that under the pressure of our citizens and the parliamentary majority, I hope, and the committee has supported our approach, and is proposing a moratorium on 1 January 2015. But from the reporter, I didn't hear that. I wish I could. I do not insist on voting on my amendment, but I would like the rapporteur to confirm that the committee supports the position that not earlier than 1 January 2015. Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u84	Please give me an answer. Mikola Tomenko tells us whether the committee supports the position: no later than January 1, 2015. Bevenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u85	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u86	Well, not before, huh? Not before January 1, 2015. Yuri Anatolyevich, please have 3 corrections. The question was from Mikola Tomenka, who said he would not insist on his amendment if the committee was in a position to preserve Yuri Karmazin's amendment: not before January 1, 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u87	Well, that's what the committee voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u88	One minute, we'll be on our way! The committee supports this position -- that's the answer. Please. So Tomenko does not insist on correction. You insist, don't you? I'm voting on the 3rd Nicholas amendment. Don't you insist? Well, then let's take a picture. Why, then. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u89	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to a bill that is now being considered in a second reading that the authorities want to adopt in general. This is a bill that actually opens the road to the sale of agricultural land. I'm a firm opponent in the sale of land, because it's, you know, it doesn't have to have any sense at all, in the third millennium, when the fight goes to ground, for water, for useful fossils, for brothers to sell land. You have to sell the land, you have to sell the crops. And today our authorities want to sell the land, tomorrow the peasants will sell, tomorrow our Ukrainians will not let the peasants walk their homeland, the cow will not be allowed to be driven to pasture because there will be some Chinese in charge. Therefore, the Radical Party against the sale of land. We will vote against this bill. And I demand that the Head of the Supreme Council at all withdraw this bill from the view that it violates article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues! One minute! If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, then we'll film it. Now, one minute! Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, request for confirmation of amendment number four, National Deputy Carmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u92	Yes, please 4 amendments, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The 4th amendment, the 7th amendment, prohibits land rights, pies to statutory capitals of farm societies to take effect of the law on the circulation of agricultural land, and I set up and tell you, and the committee agreed, for which I thank all members of the committee not earlier than 1 January 2015. Before the session, I was told that an order had come from the President's Administration that these amendments should be destroyed. That is, the committee's opinion to level and everything, to open the sale of land -- that's what they want today. So I thank the committee members for supporting me and these legislative proposals. Here in this law, only one of my amendments is not included. And then I'll talk about her. I'm asking you to stand still for this amendment, that is. And to stand firm for the sale of the land, to forbid it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that Amendment No. 4 of Jury Karmazin is of the following content: "No introduction of land rights, no pie to the statutory capitals of agricultural societies until the Act on the Circumstance of Agricultural Assignments, but not before 1 January 2015." This amendment is considered by the committee. At the same time, there is the insistence that it be put to the vote for confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] From Mikhailo Chechetov. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what I said! Please don't help me work. National MP Mikhailo Chechetov demands. Yuri Anatoliyovich reasoned on why he felt the amendment needed to be preserved. The Supreme Council must now be decided. I'm voting on Amendment 4 to confirm it. Please vote. [[11:45:43]] For 104 Correction not accepted. The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, "BUT – Fatherland" – 28, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 9, Communists – 23, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 4. Thus, this amendment is not taken into account. And accordingly, Amendments 7 and 10 are not taken into account. Right, Yuri Anatolyovich? Yeah. Chaplain, please, then, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u95	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, since the amendments proposed by Mr. Carmazin have not been accepted, I, on behalf of the MP group "For the Future", insist that amendment number five, which sounds to be effective before the Act on the Circumstance of Lands of Agricultural Assignment, but not before 1 January. year, not allowed. This is about putting a ban on any alienation of agricultural land by 2014. Please put to the vote. And I'm also paying attention to you, your honorary colleagues, based on what's going on in the hall today, this bill is the possibility of a clear opening of the land market right from January 1, 2013. Think of those fingers that will be pressed on the buttons or will not be pressed, for we will vote against our own state. Please put to the vote my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, please pay attention to the vote amendment No. 5 of Vladimir Kaplienka. Date: not earlier than 1 January 2014. Please vote, please. [[11:47:41]] For-84 The decision is not taken. We've considered all the amendments. What's that? Just a minute. Mikola Tomenko. One minute, six minutes. Let's go now. Mikola Tomenko, 6 repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, here is a classic that I call a Ukrainian aphorist, not an apherist, I apologize, but an aphorist is the one who says that they're aphoristic, saying that they're distributing a cat. So today they have developed a cat from the Party of Regions. Their committee, headed by one of the regional leaders, took a normal position and offered to move the moratorium to January 1, 2015, and those who had already counted how much land would be sold to and to whom. Today, a regional committee was put on the stand for confirmation and failed. Because they need the land! Not the people, not the state, but the land they need is 100 dollars per acre. So I insist on voting for my amendment to continue the moratorium until January 1, 2016. And once again, my friends, you're getting Ukraine involved in civil war. It's gonna end badly. Not only do you want taxes from the people, but you want to take the land for free. It's not going to work that way! Just so you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Amendment 6 Mikoli Tomenko, this is about extending the moratorium until January 1, 2016. Yeah. I'm putting the vote to the vote, this amendment. [[11:49:36]] For-98 Correction not accepted. Well, all the other adjustments we made then. Well, 8th, we voted her. Well, Volodymyr Kaplienka, please, we voted her.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u99	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we voted on my 5th amendment. And the 8th sounds something like this. It makes changes to paragraph 15. Which sounds something like that. That the purchase, sale or other way of alienating land and land, the pies defined in subparagraphs (a) and (b) are introduced under the terms of the Act on the Circumvention of Agricultural Lands, but not before 1 January 2013. [[This is about the sale of state and municipal land, as well as the change of purpose]] I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. Because if we don't do it, it's the last correction that stands at the barrier to the opening of the earth's market. I'm asking you very much for the hall, please get your hands on it, vote for the amendment! Let's say we cancel the opening of the earth market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u100	The vote shall be amended as follows: Vladimir Caplienko justified it. Please vote. [[11:51:03]] For-95 Correction not supported. Yeah, 9th Amendment. Mikola Tomenko, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I understand that the tactics of power will now be the next one. Since all our amendments to the moratorium will be broken, the first reading will be left behind. I want everyone to understand what the first reading is. This means that by January 1st, the Act on the Circumvention of Lands of Agricultural Assignment, in February, as well as the vote of March 1st, or April 1st, is even better, so to laugh at the Ukrainian people and Ukrainian peasants - as of April 1, 2013 - start selling land. I just want to say again that no one has any illusions. Today’s experience is that the clerics of the President’s Administration and the people who are now called the family are now absolutely sure to run this country and parliament, including. Once again, the committee made a balanced decision – a moratorium by January 1, 2015. So I want everyone to know, today those who vote for the law in the first reading are the people who vote against the Ukrainian village against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment 9, by Mikola Tomenko. [[11:52:41]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Mikhail Chechtov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, request for confirmation of amendment 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u104	Now we're looking at 10 amendments so far. We didn't get it. We filmed her there, the amendment, she's staying here. I'm asking you, look, the reporter will tell you that we're currently looking at the 10th Amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee head said. The authors insist on these amendments, nothing is taken off. Please, Chechetov. Then there's Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, because when the 4th amendment was taken, you said that the 7th and 10th amendments were taken automatically. Now you're saying they're not shooting. Then let's put it to the vote and the 7th amendment and the 10th to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u106	The question is, when I said it was off, the amendment authors disagreed. But if they do not agree, they have the right to speak. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, 7th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am very sorry that the situation in the session hall is being disturbed. I think without the pitchforks, Liez Lazko, you come with the pitchforks and lead the peasants here! Because Chechetov is selling our land now. He's just taking it away. So, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, you should be ashamed of yourself for all ages, you understand? Your name will be remembered when blood dictators were remembered, as Paul Potov, Ceausescu, was remembered, and you will be placed on a villa for what you offer! We suggest we postpone. And I firmly deny it. And I emphasize, every last name that now votes in favour is people who are against Ukraine. So emigrate. You've already bought everything abroad, emigrate there. That's where you belong.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The vote is amended as follows: Please vote. Please vote. 7th Amendment. Please vote. [[11:55:47]] For-93 The amendment is not accepted. Now, Mikhailo Chechtov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u109	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'd also like to place on confirmation amendment number 10 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u110	Yuri Anatolyevich, please, your position. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! This law removes the moratorium on the earth. Let's see it all. Now Mikhail Vasilovich has shown that the king is naked: the king has nothing. You don't even have enough money for your "royal rat" 24 billion today for government officials, you're offering to take it away! You're suggesting today that everyone who's kept their money from depreciating bets on 16 percent tax, 15 plus 1 percent. You're proposing and now reorienting the law of the Land Market Act into the Law on Circumvention of Lands of Agricultural Purpose, which offers time for several years, you're proposing to do it now. So by supporting the idea of extending the moratorium on land alienation. Together, I consider it appropriate to express doubts as to the legal composition which is necessary to suspend the moratorium on the alienation of land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Amendment 10 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:57:41]] Z-91 Correction not supported. One minute! Please, Oleg Lazko. Then Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u113	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you as chairman of the plenary. All Ukrainian citizens who now see the broadcast see one person running for ten. Today and now an epochal law is being considered for Ukraine’s future. I'm asking you to give me an order to block the cards of the missing national MPs, that we haven't had the same as we always have, that 50 people decide the fate of Ukraine. And I want to talk to Ukrainian citizens. Dear fellow citizens, now in the Supreme Council, the Anti-Ukraine Supreme Council, there is a crime. They want to steal your land, they want to take away our country's future, they want to take away the golden chicken that carries platinum eggs for free. So I'm warning the regionals, the authorities, and so on. If you parasites adopt this law, we'll take you out to the villas and you'll almost be shown here! I warned you and millions of Ukrainian citizens!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, then Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u115	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we are adjourning the meeting. The 11th amendment is also requested for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u116	The 11th amendment is taken into account, at the request of the National MP, I put it to the vote for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:59:40]] For-86 No correction supported. 12 revisions. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the citizens of Ukraine, you all see what's going on. The committee prepared the right balanced law, including, and the reporter, who is part of the Party of Regions, but who has the honour, has a conscience. He also proposed this amendment 11, which was immediately rejected, where the government had been instructed to prepare the law. My amendment applied, and I was rejected only because the previous 11 were counted. Yes or no? Am I addressing the committee correctly? That's why, if Beazenka's unaccounted for, then I have to take my amendment into account. It reads: "Chapter III in the Final Positions after part one to complete the new part: "The Cabinet of Ministers, by 1 January 2015 to develop and submit to the Supreme Council a draft law on the Circumstance of Agricultural Assignments. There's nothing you can do without the law. And I advise you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u118	Thank you. Honorable People's Deputies, Amendment 12, by Yuri Karmazin, have just justified it. [[12:01:18]] For-96 The decision is not taken. The factions. Please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 27, Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 12, Communists – 25, People's Party – 8, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 5. Dear colleagues, before I put the vote to a vote, I'll call it a recess if the factions have to comment on this in one minute. Please. Ivan Kirilenko. Then Cappleyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u119	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, before this overwhelming vote takes place, perhaps the most important thing in this room, in this vocation, is to think about things that have not yet been heard in this room. Over the past 10 years, billions of acres of agricultural land have disappeared from the planet’s surface. There were three, now there are only one and a half, and in five years there will be one billion hectares left. They don't trade land in the world right now, it's crazy, people are good. A billion people are already starving, a billion at a time. Don't forget one more time, it's not the land trade, it's the Kamaz, it's the trade of territory, it's the territory of the sovereign state. You're looking forward to foreign investment today, agriculture for a few billion. Don't you know that investors are following the investment? And investors are citizens of other states, and you're not going to sell to foreigners. And the investment, the investment law? Dear friends, please, save Ukraine, save it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u120	Finish up. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u121	Dear friends, the earth is what we have received from previous generations, which have shed blood for this country, for this land. And little did we owe this land to our descendants, who gave us the right to rule as you are going to vote today? Stop this madness.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u122	Thank you. Vladimir Kaplienko, please. Then Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. On behalf of the MP's Reform Group for the Future, I'd like to make the following statement. First. A similar bill, which will now be voted on, is a betrayal of Ukraine's state interests. The other one. If this bill is adopted, this next generation will not forgive us. Young people will never forgive us, because if we lose the very main resource that is still left in an undisturbed Ukraine, whose state has turned away from its functions of government procurement, government production, government pricing, the only thing left to do is land, if we move away from it, then the following is in the agenda: how will we ensure Ukraine's food security, in which way we will ensure Ukraine's territorial security, and in what way will we take care of Ukraine's future in general, which will not even have points of reliance on land that still belongs to Ukraine? If the land market opens up, we won't see you in a year of Ukrainian land, we can't vote for such bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u124	Please, Catherine Samuel. Then John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u125	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is constantly in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and has asked you to support the moratorium on land sales. I don't remember any candidates for the National MPs, I don't remember any political power talking about me going to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to sell the land. What we will do is, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Chaplin district of the Hersonian region, 24.5,000 acres of land leased in the hands of foreigners, nine years of planting, and no money is given to people. This is the situation in Kalanchik, Skadowski, Golo-Pristan region, let's go! Whose children are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u126	John the Rabbit, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u127	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! This law, the Party of the Regions, actually opens up the opportunity to buy Ukrainian land to anyone and ever. Here we were convinced that a European market model would be applied in Ukraine, and in fact we see that this would be a normal market. Whoever has the money, whether it's a Ukrainian citizen or a foreigner, will buy Ukrainian land. Clearly, at a time when natural capital limits the development of human civilization from such thoughtlessly implementing the earth's market, that means destroying the Ukrainian state, that means subverting the root of Ukrainian tradition, the Ukrainian custom, that eventually overwhelms the future of the Ukrainian nation. So we have not only a simple economic decision, but a geopolitical decision for the destruction of the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian nation. Therefore, this bill cannot be voted on in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u128	Deputies, discussion is complete. It is truly complex and emotional. I've come to realize that, unfortunately, we don't have a consensus. When we're in power, they say, "You have to make that decision," when the authorities don't write that they won't take it. We're probably in the session room, so maybe you should make a deal and make this judgmental decision. Who's up there? Paul Sulkowski, one minute after the faction there was no performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u129	Thank you. John Grigorovich Kirilenko, meaning that man has really worked hard in agriculture in life and so forth. Please tell other colleagues that I am also against John Grigorovich's sale of such unjust land, especially the agricultural assignment. But please tell me, for 20 years, we have done nothing to bring order to our most fertile land in Ukraine, which pleases the mess of everyone else here in this room, which is being done for twenty years, and what the shadow market is doing today. Well, do you have to do something here? Yes, I would honestly put my hand on my heart and say, ‘ What are the villagers not fooling around in 20 years? ’ Just as they've been fooling around for 20 years, no one's ever going to cheat again. Clearly, there is something we need to do here, Your Honor. And just so stubbornly say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u131	Kirilenko's replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u132	Please, Kirilenka's lineup. And I'd like everyone to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u133	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, we are not simply against, we have a clear offer in this regard to preserve the territorial integrity of Ukraine to preserve this land for offspring, they will manage it better than we do, we suggest: yes, to be a market for land, but one buyer is only a state, only local governments buy away gradually without pedaling questions into those who want to sell, peasants. We make a transparent market, and then on competitive grounds, we transfer this land to a long-term lease to an effective owner for 50 years, and we mortgage the lease on land to be capitalized. A clear proposition: the territorial integrity is preserved, the land of the Ukrainian people is preserved, the local self-governance is otherwise functioning, a completely different agar business, it will quietly plan its future, not sodium, for five years as it is now, but for 50 years. Here's our offer, that's what people all over the world do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! I don't think we have a difference in that, Ivan Grigoryevich. We're for the state, too. The State had the opportunity to buy land that was in its time torn apart, and as a former minister, you know better me, that out of the 28 million lands that were to be torn apart, only 17 million hectares to date are confirmed by real treaties. Where's the rest of the land? Thus, it may be possible for the State to have the land back. Get it back from people who don't use it. To that end, we must develop a mechanism. Because we're talking about anything, but we're not talking about how to put things right. I would urge our colleagues to move on emotionally to a rational one and eventually propose an option on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, this discussion is over. Please, Ivan Alexanderovich! I know you've just come to work, I understand. Well, calm down! Dear colleagues, the question of what is causing everyone's concern about the fact that there are virtually barriers that remain one barrier to the land market is the adoption of the Agricultural Land Circumstances Act. Before that, there were several other barriers. Unfortunately, in the process of discussion, we did not make an acceptable and understandable decision: if the market is how do we understand it? And the shadow market exists. And that's why I want to tell you, dear colleagues, this is the responsibility of today's Supreme Council, which completes its cadence, and the future, obviously. As long as we don't have a normal discussion, we don't make a clear decision, people will lose their land. Well, of course. And we're going to be doing what we're going to do here to find out what our relationship is. So I'd like to ask them to make a very careful decision right now. I'm voting on the committee's proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[on the circulation of agricultural land]] [[Registration number11315]] Everyone vote for themselves. [[12:12:27]] For 184 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 160, BUT-Batakushina is 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 2, Communists - 0, People's Party - 12, "Reforms for the Future" - 0, "Afterfaction" - 10. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u137	Please invite the national deputies to the session hall to continue their hard work. Dear National Deputies! We should now consider with you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 11221]] The bill was adopted on the basis of October 16, 2012, with the appropriate commission of the committee to draft the bill. Judging from the lack of material, the committee did not complete the work. So I'd like to get some information from the committee. If necessary, we can then put it, consider it and adopt it in first-reading mode without a committee, considering it's a government bill. So I would ask the factions to take their stand on this matter. In the meantime, we are going to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on urban regulation. [[Registration number 11252]] The rapporteur is the head of the Subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of Majbeard Sergey Fedotovich. Please, Sergey Fedotovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u138	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! At the beginning of October of this year, we were adopted on the basis of a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on urban regulation, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 11252]] During the drafting of the draft for the second reading procedure, 61 comments were processed by the Committee, 53 of which were taken into account. The final draft of the bill clarified a number of existing city legislation rules, taking into account the latest practice of its application, and the draft law itself was brought into line with the requirements of existing legislation. The Chief Legal Authority has agreed on a bill with comments that I can then comment on. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Let's get some repairs. Pantychuck, 3rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen! Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. We should still use the concept of local building rules -- those are the things that describe the respective zones, that is, the documentation that describes what should be built there, what restrictions are made. And that's why I don't understand why they're taking this off. So what do we actually see? That local councils lose their influence on architectural activities, that is, on the city’s face. And we're not going to be able to have the original cities where there are neighborhoods, they have something that attracts people. We'll never get the Paris phenomenon where we want to walk. We're going to get something that's not clear. So at what level is it going to be decided if there's no local rules of forgetfulness? I don't know why they threw it away.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u141	The 3rd amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:49:54]] For -6 Not supported. 5th Amendment, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u142	I understand very well that the law is made for the work of the builder, who has been fed up with people who care for the walls, and they want to build so that the public doesn't know anything about it at all. Actually, there's no such thing as miracles. I repeat, or we describe how public participation issues can be resolved, that is, through public hearings, or street talk, and sometimes the street can speak very and very brutally. So just meet up with the builders and take off the public hearing requirement, by the way, they're not always, not in all cases, and they should be held. That's why I'm in the correction and it says, "There are public hearings in cases provided for by law." This is absolutely necessary. Otherwise we're going to have an eclectic that's already being seen in cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u143	The 5th amendment shall be put to the vote, please specify. [[12:51:22]] For-7. Not supported. 20th, Ganushkak, repair. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u144	This amendment refers to what should be functional zones. So what we're talking about is that the documentation within the populated area is solved at the local level. Outside, in the district. But it is imperative to add the word functional zones. So the regulation has to go on in this respect. I don't know why you're throwing these things away. Well, it's completely technical. And it could be counted. Just because I don't belong to most people. Well, I don't understand it at all. There's no politics here. It's purely technological.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u145	20 amendments shall be made to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:52:46]] For-9 Not supported. 34th, Ganushtak. On page 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u146	Come on, I'll get to her. Oh, that's a principle. Well, I'm glad that with every correction, the number of people who support me is increasing. It's a principle amendment. In all such cases where a political decision is made, in this case it is a political decision, it should be a representative, representative body. In this case, cities are being proposed -- this is the city council, outside -- this is the government. Do you understand? You're making a world-class mistake. I mean, which is that there are no states of self-government outside the population. We go back to the worse times, even to the Kingdom. And this is because Ukraine signed the Charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In this case, therefore, it is not the desire of Hanustak but the requirements of European partnership. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u147	34th vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:54:18]] For -6 Introduced. It's going down. 35th, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u148	I will ask those who respect local self-government, or at least those who declare it, to focus and show that they really support local self-government. And this amendment, which is now being proposed, also applies to local self-government, which indicates that decisions are taken by city, rural, village councils, not district government administrations. Because the district government is still a representation of the central government. And as Kiev is said to call, so will they. If we want the issues to be resolved in places, well, it's important that they be decided by conscience, then it's necessary for the matter to be resolved by a representative body. Otherwise, why do we choose local deputies if we ignore them? What a party of regions you are then, who doesn't care about.?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u149	35 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:48]] For the five of us. Not supported. 52 repairs, Sass. Don't insist. And the 60th is rejected. Carmazine doesn't insist. All the other corrections are included. I put to the vote the committee's proposal, the judiciary called for comments, the adoption of a second reading and the whole Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on urban regulation. [[Registration number 11252]] [[12:56:40]] For 219 The bill was rejected. Yeah, who's for coming back, please make up your mind. [[12:57:07]] For 227 We're back. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law. draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of urban activities. [[Registration number 11252]] [[12:57:45]] For 224 The law is rejected. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 177, "BUT" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 2, the Communists – did not vote, the People's Party – 19, "Reforms" – 18, non-fractional – 8. We are considering a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the purchase of works related to the operation of the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 11386]] [[second reading]] He reports: Plitnik's Alexy Vitaliyovich, head of the Economic Policy Committee's subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u150	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the second reading of the Ukrainian Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the purchase of works related to the operation of the National Bank of Ukraine]] This second reading was made by the Economic Policy Committee on November 16, 2012. Three amendments were made to the first reading. Of these, two are counted, one is rejected. And so the Committee on Economic Policy asks that the bill be supported in a second reading. If you have any questions about the amendments, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u151	Thank you. Yeah, it's not Carmazine's 2th amendment, he doesn't insist. Main Legal Office: The bill requires substantial work and re-reading. The committee suggests that we accept it as a whole. I am voting to adopt the Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the purchase of works related to the operation of the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 11386]] Please vote. [[13:00:03]] For 249 The law is passed. We're looking at a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Preschool Education. [[on the organization of the educational process]] [[Registration number 9714-1]] A member of the Committee on Science and Education, Baranov-Mohort Sergey Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u152	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Ukrainian National Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education at its meeting on October 2, 2012, reviewed the proposals made by subjects of the right to legislative initiative to draft the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Preschool Education. [[on the organization of the educational process]] [[second reading]] According to article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, articles 116-138 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 54 amendments have been made to the Act on the Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including 14, partially or editorially 7, rejected 33. Corrections, comments and suggestions came from Ukrainian national deputies Knazević, Karmazin, Hanushtak, Krilenka, Karpuka, Hare, Gumenyuk, Yavorowski, Yankowski, Sharov, Jojik, and Samojlik. The committee appreciates the suggestions made and the reasons for the amendments made. I recall that the bill is designed to bring into line with the needs of citizens types of pre-school institutions, to ensure constitutional rights for those categories of children who need to be corrected physically or mentally, to regulate important aspects of the functioning of pre-school institutions and to provide legislative conditions to increase equal access to pre-school education for children of relevant age, such as ensuring accessibility to pre-school education in institutions with regional and minority languages. Giving parents and their replacements the right to choose the language of their children. Exemptions from parental or foster care, children who are visited by preschool schools and who have reached an older preschool age, and so forth. The Committee on Science and Education has decided to support the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Preschool Education, which is prepared for second reading, to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to recommend acceptance in the second reading and in general as a law. [[on the organization of the educational process]] [[Registration number 9714-1 of February 2, 2012]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u153	Thank you. We're going after the repairs. 1st Amendment, Knazevitch. Don't insist. 3 revisions. Carmazine. Don't insist. It's a mess. Four.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u154	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an amendment, maybe the word "separate" isn't correct, it's about separate establishments. I mean, what's this all about? That a child should be brought up in his or her language environment. That is, if a suitable institution is created for a national minority, the language environment should be the only one. Because in this case, if it's not there, it's a mess. The child must be in his aura, the one most fitting to the child’s soul. And so it's being suggested that it should be separated, any mixing of groups makes a cutter. We're already suffering from this scar because Ukrainian, by the way, like Russian, really doesn't exist in Ukraine anymore, but there's a mixture. Therefore, a preschool facility should be separated.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u155	The 4th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:19]] For -14 Not supported. Kirilenko, 5th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u156	Viacheslav Kirilenko, a united opposition. Dear voters, this has been an extension of the history of the last time, people are taking money, 15 percent of it, and they're taking the land and taking the language. Because this bill, which is now being passed in the hall, it predicts that another, very preconceived, blow will be done in the Ukrainian language. The point is that groups in Russian will be formed where children learn Ukrainian slowly under pressure from the mountain. This mixture will take place, people will start looking at each other with a warning, every parent or parent will be obliged to write a statement in the language they want their child to learn. And so a project to destroy Ukrainian as a national language takes on additional twists. So I propose that all those who care about Ukraine do not vote in favour of this bill, but support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u157	5 the amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:05:45]] For the 18th. Not supported. 8 Amendment, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u158	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Troyshina. At the end of this Parliament, which will finally come down, the glory of God from the arena, I want to say that he will go into history as the author of the laws of the motions that this Parliament, that is, the majority of which is in Parliament for forgiveness upon acceptance. I understand very well that it is unlikely that the opposition, the patriotic Ukrainian segment, will be able to stand down from this amendment to remove this completely ridiculous, quasi-legal amendment that has been made here, that parents must have the right to choose, but it is natural to breathe like air. You are left with, your respectable regions, today to accept a tax on the use of Ukrainian and every word to tax people, then, of course, you will resolve all your political issues that you have. That's why I made a suggestion to remove this ridiculous amendment that came, literally, to this law and leave it in the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u159	A similar amendment to Hare 6th, please, and we'll vote 6th and 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u160	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! I want you to realize the potential to ruin this bill and this position. It states that parents have the right to choose their child’s language freely. People are good, but you realize that in today’s nations, national language is closely linked to the institution of citizenship. If you are a citizen of that State, you are obliged to speak Ukrainian, and you are obliged to act in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. But there's another legislation that deals with these issues on the line of national minorities, and you know it. But you're ruining the constitutional system by this position because you're undermining the fundamental principle of citizenship, you're undermining the Constitution of Ukraine, you're actually pushing Ukraine to membership by some language signs. And now there will be no Ukrainian Ukraine, or 18 or 20, or 21 different Ukraines, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u161	6 and 8 amendments shall be made to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:08:30.]] For-29 Not supported. Carpook, 12th. Don't insist. Panocchik, 13th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not talking to colleagues who are sitting on the other side of the demarcation line, but to radio audiences and television audiences. What is proposed? It is suggested that preschool schools can be established to meet national and cultural educational and linguistic needs, where learning is done in national or other languages. "Or others" is very interesting, of course. I suggest that this right is realized on the condition that the number of parental claims is no less than the legal number of preschool children needed to open a preschool facility. And I'll explain why? Because we can't just type in statements like that and then decide what language will be taught. If it came out in half, for example. What's next? They're going to decide what the Kremlin is going to say, is that what we're going to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u163	13 amendments to the vote. [[13:10:07]] For 20 Not supported. 14th, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u164	Viacheslav Kirilenko, a united opposition. The new doctrine of the Party of Regions continues to be implemented: people take money, peasants take land, Ukrainians take language. Look, we now have seven languages of preschool education in the country, i.e. seven languages of national minorities: Romanian, Hungarian, Russian, Crimean Tatar, Moldovan, Polish and Slovak. National minorities have the opportunity to meet these national education needs. But the authorities, the regionals, Yanukovich, they need to fight. In a kindergarten somewhere in Trieste, in Lviv, or in Dnipropetrovsk, children learn Ukrainian, and they want to bind their parents to determine which language they want and to form Russian - speaking groups. At the same time, the salaries of teachers do not increase, the money for education does not increase, and this language map is being played against people. Surprisingly, do not vote on this law! And my amendment needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u165	The 14th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[13:11:30.]] For-22. Not supported. 15th, Karpuk. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u166	Vladimir Karpuk. Like other laws that have been enacted in this room, unfortunately, are directed against Ukrainian language and even to see what the law would sound like: about preschool education, it seems that the primary orientation is not about improving preschool education in Ukraine, but rather about narrowing the function of Ukrainian language, starting with early childhood. I ask you to vote in favour. And I'd like a representative of the committee to give his opinion on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u167	15 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[13:12:28]] For-27 Not supported. 16th, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u168	It's supported, this amendment. She's kept clean, I don't insist, she's accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u169	16th overturned. 18th, Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is far more treacherous than that bill that is famous for regional languages. Why? Because he beats the hearts of the children themselves: our young generation -- the children -- want to make mancourts. And I'll tell you this: You can't do anything. Why? Because we're a big country, we're doomed to success. And this success, which will take place in Ukraine, will have a sense of pride that will be brought up in people. And that sense of pride requires a certain identification, an individuality. The individuality of us from other nations is only language. And then, to you regionals, your children will ask, "Why were you against the state as such? And why are you in the heart of this state instead of sticking it through such laws?" Well, of course, Communists. They were never part of the Ukrainian State. What are you doing? It's like you're claiming to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u171	The 18th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:14:21]] For 20 Not supported. It's the same in Karpuka, 22. So she won't vote either. 19th, Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u172	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear national MPs, language is the best building nation, the best building state. If we want to create a society where there's harmony, where there's peace, where there's perspective, we need to finally understand that there's a national language, and the public language has to be used, used everywhere. You're doing this today to push the state language out of preschool education, replace it in other languages -- and eventually destroy the Ukrainian state. So I have nothing left to say to Ukrainians who are deputies in the Ukrainian Parliament. You realize which bill you're going to vote for today or not. You realize that no one today sees you as citizens of Ukraine, but you are only servants of those anti-Ukrainian forces who have settled in the government that have settled in the Supreme Council and are destroying the Ukrainian state. So do not vote in favour of this bill. Finally, show your civil courage, your national dignity!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u173	The 19th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:15:50]] For-27 Not supported. 41st. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u174	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Troyshina. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters! First of all, I'm talking to the electorate. You can see that this is not actually the Ukrainian Parliament today. I recall the first call where someone could be convinced: Communists, not Communists. Today this conversation is with the deaf. We explain to them how important it is to preserve Ukrainian language today, they adopt anti-Ukrainian laws, they break this Ukraine by taking it out. From its base by taking out the brick. That's why no one can hear us. That's why I'm talking to the voters. This horde, an anti - Ukrainian horde, will come down from our land. That's why you won't hurt our language, it's all the same. You will not pluck it out of our mouths, out of our souls. It is and will always be. You want to deprive your children of that opportunity today. You can't do that. It won't work! It won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u175	The 41st amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:17:28]] For-25 [[B in m in s a l in]] You were gone, Yuri Anatolyovich. Wait! Wait. Now we're done, then 27th is going to be. It will be, it will be. Carmazine is included, accounted for. 27 Amendment, Carmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Chairman, I propose that paragraph 1.5 be deleted in the 27th amendment, by renumbering the parts. Is it based on the addition of the right to provide preschool education by corporate private preschool schools, as recorded, based on private sub property? The object of farming that this supplement is contrary to the principles of preschool education for children and must be removed, such as that that brings out preschool education from government control and supervision. [[legal person]] That's the first one. And the second. Dear Chairman, this bill has no good tasks at its core, you can see it's aimed at further destroying everything in Ukrainian. That's why I'm obviously asking you to support my amendment, but in general, the bill needs to be redrafted, it needs to be re-readed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u177	The 27th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:19:12]] For-25 Not supported. Dear colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority, has made observations. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Preschool Education (9714-1). [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:19:47]] For 222 The factions, please. "The Party of Regions" – 167, "BUT - "The Fatherland" did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 1, communists – 24, "The People's Party" – 20, "Reforms" – 1, "non-factional" – 9. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's in charge of coming back? [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:20:19]] For 213 Have a seat. 213, we're not back. [[B in m in s a l in]] The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving Vocational and Technical Education is being considered, reports Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, Davimuk Stepan Antonovich. [[Registration number 9587]] [[second reading]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! On May 22, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the bill as a basis and commissioned the Committee on Science and Education to prepare it for its second reading. During this time, the committee received from three entities the right to legislative initiative 14 proposals and amendments to the draft law. All the proposals were worked out on the committee for the drafting of the bill – the Ministry of Education and Science, young people and sports of Ukraine. In doing so, they studied all the expert conclusions that came to the committee and made a concerted decision in each particular case. The Science and Education Committee at its October 2nd meeting considered all 14 amendments, with 7 supported and 7 rejected. The committee generally supported a draft law that was prepared for second reading and decided to bring it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommended that it be adopted as a law as a whole. The Chief Legal Authority points out that the bill can be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law taking into account the comments made. Please support the bill with observations from the legal department. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u179	Yeah, let's get some repairs, please. Yes, Carmazine, 4th. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin. I sincerely welcome all those who stood up for the previous bill and propose a fourth amendment. In sub-paragraph 5, "b" delete the words "state or" after the text. These changes are proposed in view of the fact that, in accordance with applicable legislation, the primary burden on graduates of vocational and technical institutions of state ownership is to be exercised by the relevant central and local executive authorities, which are responsible for deciding on the establishment of appropriate vocational and technical institutions, the approval of statutes and the appointment of their directors. In this context, it is obvious that the main emphasis on assisting graduates in vocational and technical institutions in the form of state ownership should be borne by the relevant local executive authorities, not by the executive bodies of the relevant councils, who, of course, should care about providing appropriate assistance to graduates of vocational and technical institutions, especially the municipal form of ownership. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u181	The committee supported the decision, decided to uphold the standard proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u182	I didn’t realize what you were arguing about, whether it was a fourth or a fifth?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u183	Four.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u184	The 4th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:24:55]] For two. Not supported. Yeah, five-a. Baranov-Mohort doesn't insist. Carmazine, 6th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u185	Yuri Carmazin. I'm paying attention to everyone who hasn't moved away from the previous battalions to this project. He's very important, too. My amendment 6 refers to the proposal to exclude from the Vocational and Technical Education Act the changes introduced by the Bill to Article 7, namely: "The Specially Authorized Central Authority of Executives in the Field of Vocational and Technical Education may temporarily transmit to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to the district and other municipal public administrations their separate powers." These changes are proposed in view of the fact that the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines the authority of the government, ministries, other central authorities, does not provide for the possibility of temporary transfer to specialized central authorities in the field of professional technology. to educate their powers. In addition, there is no such norm in the Ukrainian Law on Central Executive Authorities. In my opinion, giving the right to the bodies listed, in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u186	6 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:26:27]] For the 10th. Not supported. 7th, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u187	Thank you, thank you. I was just speaking, you know, here. My next amendment is seven. It refers to excluding changes made in the bill to article 8, they are obviously before you. My argument is that they are made because, according to the current legislation of the Ministry, as executive authorities of the special jurisdiction, they are not objectively able to delegate their powers to the executive authorities of the general jurisdiction, which are the appropriate local government administrations. Because there is no direct organization or legal subordination between them. In addition, the transfer of relevant powers to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which is an organ of territorial autonomy, whose authority, including those delegated under the Constitution of Ukraine, should be determined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine relating to matters relating to its competence, is not entirely part of the current structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u188	The 7th amendment shall be voted on, please specify. [[13:27:57]] For-13. I repeat, Sass, do not interfere with the meeting. You're intruding, I'm making a point. Carmazine, 9th, accounted for. Carmazine, 11th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u189	I thank you for taking nine corrections into account. With regard to the 11th amendment, Carmazin, I propose that the first sentence of part two of article 24 be presented in such an editorial. "The Director of the Technical and Vocational Institution of State Property shall be appointed to the position of the competition authority responsible for the establishment of the relevant educational institution, by means of a contract with him by a specially authorized authority of executive authority in the field of vocational and technical education, ministries and other central authorities of the executive branch with which vocational and technical institutions are subordinated." [[contract]] Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u190	The 11th amendment shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u191	Please back up! [[13:29:15]] For -14 Not supported. So the rest of the amendments are included. The principal legal administration was concerned with observations. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve vocational and technical education. [[Registration number 9587]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u192	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u193	It's the committee's right. [[13:29:59]] For 259. Thank you, the law has been passed. We're looking at a draft law on the formation and placement of government procurement for the preparation of professionals, scientific, scientific and pedagogical personnel, the promotion of qualifications and the retraining of personnel. [[Registration number 10720]] [[second reading]] Report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Science and Education, Davimuk Stepan Antonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u194	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, passed the bill adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 6th in the first reading. I would like to remind you that the bill provides for the establishment of relationships resulting from the formation and placement of government procurement for the preparation of scientific, scientific, pedagogical and labour personnel, the upgrading of qualifications and the retraining of public procurement personnel, and the formation of public procurement, in line with the needs of the labour market. The draft law is in agreement with the Nacdere Service, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The bill has been proposed by two entities under the law of the legislative initiative, and the bill has been amended by four amendments, and two have been rejected. A comparative table is in line with the experts of Minmoledysport and Mineconomy. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made 2 remarks to the bill. The first observation is that the order for the formation of a government order for the preparation of scientific, scientific and labour professionals is contrary to the provisions of chapter 6 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which regulates in detail the procedure for the submission of budgetary requests by the chief authorising officer, including the execution of government orders. In order to take into account the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority, the committee proposes a second paragraph, part three of article 2 of the bill. "The central executive authority, which provides for the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of public procurement, defines the aggregated project volumes of government procurement, gives them to the central executive authority from the formation and enforcement of state budget policies to include them in the draft law on the State budget of Ukraine for the year in question." The second point is that the provisions of the draft, sub-paragraphs 2 and 3 of Part Two of Article 4, which amend part four of article 1 of the Ukrainian State Procurement Act and article 18, paragraph 10 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, fully duplicate the existing provisions of the articles of the Act. Therefore, we propose paragraphs 2 and 3 of the second article 4 of the bill to be deleted. Please note this in the transcript. The Committee on Science and Education suggests recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Law on Design and Placement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u195	Thank you. 1 amendment. Carmazine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u196	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, it's very hard to hear, this proposal, so I realized that it's not in the table that you're reading right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u197	It's counted. It is included in this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u198	Counted. Okay. Then I'll be on my way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u199	We're going to vote on what's included in the comparative table, not what.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u200	Adam Ivanovich, let me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u201	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u202	Thank you. I propose in the first part of the third part of article 2, that we replace the word "December" with the word "September." It is based on the fact that the approach that is currently being recorded does not take into account the requirements of part two of article 96 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine no later than September 15 each year submits to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on the National Budget of Ukraine for the following year. Along with the draft law is a report on the progress of the implementation of the State budget. The proposals have to be submitted by September 1st, then they can be processed and taken into account in the preparation of the draft budget for the following year, which is obvious.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u203	1 amendment shall be put to the vote, please specify. [[13:35:15]] For -8 That'll happen next year. 8 is not supported. 2 readjustments included. Three, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u204	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! You and I can see that absurd incalculableness, if you go to the idea that after the first year of December, no one prepares our budget in a year or a year and a half. You know very well that now the government that was supposed to make the budget doesn't, but Azarov doesn't shoot, and somehow Yanukovic didn't drown him, even though he didn't file the budget, he has to be released for breaking his oath, his debt, and he's not fired. That's why, given our realities, I'm making a different proposal, paragraph 10 of section 2, paragraph 2, of article 2, of the law on public procurement and other exclusions, because this proposal is not valid. Because part of article 2 of the law on public procurement provides that the law does not extend to cases where services are provided for the preparation of professionals of science and teaching and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u205	Four, I'm sorry, Karmazin's third amendment is on the vote, please be sure. [[13:36:50]] For-9 Not supported. The 4th Amendment of Carmagazine is included. The bill requires further elaboration and re-reading of the comments of the General Legal Authority, the Committee proposes that it be adopted as a law in the second reading and as a whole. I'm proposing to the committee to adopt the Law on the Design and Placement of State Orders for the preparation of scientific, scientific and labour personnel, the promotion of qualifications and the retraining of personnel. [[Registration number 10720]] Please vote. [[13:37:35]] For 241 Decision taken We are considering the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the promotion of electricity generation from alternative sources of energy]] [[Registration number 10183]] [[second reading]] Report to the Committee's deputy head on the fuel and energy complex of nuclear policy and nuclear security, Romanyuk Mikopovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u206	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meeting on 6 November 2012 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the promotion of electricity generation from alternative sources of energy]] [[Registration number 10183]] The text of the bill adopted in the first reading by the people’s deputies was amended by 21 amendments. It should be noted that, in order to prepare the bill in a qualitative manner for the second reading, the committee created a working group in which the drafting of the bill preserved the concept and key positions of drafting the bill, as adopted in the first reading, in particular in the legislative part, to stimulate the production of electricity from renewable energy sources to the broad and efficient use of its potential to provide an enabling environment for their development. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided: 5 amendments should be taken into account, 2 should be taken into account editorially, 3 should be taken into account in part, and 11 should be rejected. On the basis of the above, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should submit a comparative table to the draft law registration number 10183 and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a law in its second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u207	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, no one insists on repairs? No, it's not. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the Law amending the Ukrainian Electricity Act. [[Registration number 10183]] Please vote. [[13:39:55]] For 280 Thank you, the law has been passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the employment of disabled persons, reports the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević. [[Registration number 9438]] [[second reading]] Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u208	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorary colleagues, a bill aimed at improving mechanisms to promote employment of persons with disabilities, economic incentives for employers to create jobs, provide for appropriate changes and additions to certain Ukrainian laws, such as the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, Ukrainian Laws on Fundamentals of Social Protection, on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, on mandatory State Pension Insurance, and on the collection and accounting of a single contribution to a general government pension. The bill foresees appropriate points related to the increased responsibility of the official exercising the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, the right to work, or to work to work, or to release, and the right to work, the right to be free from, and the questions to improve the right to improve the standards of persons with disabilities, according to the first group 2nd group. Of course, a very important position is that the Social Protection Fund has to do with the actual cost of paying a single contribution to a mandatory government social insurance. A second reading of the bill included 57 proposals from legal entities. Of these, 38 are included, 19 are rejected. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons considered a comparative table to this law and decided at its meeting on the matter. adopt this bill in second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Chief Legal Authority has called attentionlessly. Who among the authors of the amendments insists on considering the amendments? You don't? I then put to the vote the committee's proposal to adopt the whole Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the employment of persons with disabilities. [[Registration number 9438]] Please vote. Vote, Yuri Anatolyovich. [[13:42:43]] For 288 Thank you. The law is passed. Chechtev, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u210	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, has been asked to pass on the following bill because he needs further agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, no objection? 9654: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[new editor]] Is there no objection? The Committee requests a postponement of its consideration. Thank you. We're moving. We're looking at a draft Professional Qualifications Act. [[Registration number 9625]] [[second reading]] Reports the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u212	Honorary Fellow Nationals, on October 2, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a draft law on a system of professional qualifications in its first reading. The bill proposes to introduce a single, comprehensive, open and flexible system of professional qualifications, which will cover secondary, vocational and technical, higher, postgraduate, informal education, and provide an opportunity for learning throughout a person's life. For the purpose of drafting the bill, a working group was established. We've taken into account this working group, we've considered all of the 52 proposals that came from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Of these, 47 are included, 5 are rejected for a number of reasons that we're saying here in the comparative table. If I have to and will insist on the amendments, such as my colleague Karmazin, I will comment. Thus, the committee decided at its meeting on 7 November 2012 to approve the text of the Comparative Table with the proposals and amendments of the National Deputies and to adopt it on second reading and as a whole. Please vote in favour of this bill as a whole, but Adam Ivanovich, here is a remark in separate positions. After the amendments, we can go, and I can comment on them if the authors insist on their amendments. Once again, 47 is counted and 5 is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u213	Please, Carmazin, 2nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u214	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I have a proposal6 for the third part of the first part of article 1 after the words "economic activity" to supplement with the words "approved by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine." I believe that in view of the fact that the professional qualification system is to be approved by the State, it is precisely to write, "The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine." Unfortunately, in this graph, which says, "Vysnovky, justification," there's no basis. There's only the result, it says, "refused." This table is not properly prepared. I'm the one who's writing the case, and you didn't write, Alexander Mikolaiovich, a justification. Even though you said in the report that there were reasons for you. I would like to point out that this does not exactly meet the requirements of the Rules of Procedure Act, and I would like to take this into account in the next piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u215	Dear colleague Karmazin! First of all, I wasn't proposing, I was proposing a working group. It's rejected, on the one hand, on a formal basis, because you're proposing to write in a bill a ministry that no longer exists. There's no ministry like you suggested in the project. The question is also defined in part three of article 7 of the bill. In fact, it is included in part three of article 7 of this bill, so the committee rejected your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u216	The 2nd amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:47:10]] For two. Not supported. 8th. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u217	Yuri Carmazin. There's still people offering a different amendment to 3rd. Put your hand up. Dear Adam Ivanovich, am I supposed to be o? Ethical, look. See? Up to three repairs. Adam Ivanovich, let the people speak, then I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u218	3 corrections counted, Chevchuk. So what do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u219	Not me, I'm just showing you that our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u220	The smoker, please, are you up to 3 revisions? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Okay, fourth, she's accounted for. Please Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u221	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am one of the authors of this law. And the 4th amendment that Shevchuk made is counted, but we made a deal with the committee, we changed it a little bit, we made a little change in the voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u222	We won't make a sound. Please, 8 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u223	Why? This can be done under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u224	I repeat, the Rules cannot be voted on. The 8th Amendment of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u225	4th Amendment, accounted for, Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u226	Alexander Mikolaiovich, as I give my word, you will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u227	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u228	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you understand that I saw that Deputy Kurilo raised his hand, so I had to show you, help you as your rights. The person who's sitting on the right. After the eighth paragraph, part of the first article 1, I propose to add a new paragraph to the ninth sentence: "The National Catalogue of Professional Qualifications is a tool that classifies professional qualifications according to skills that correspond to professional activities." This proposal is due to the fact that international experience in this area of regulation shows that it is convenient to use such catalogues in obtaining qualifications and employment. In particular, Spain, a country of the European Union, has a positive experience of using such a catalogue, in which it is quite clearly regulated. I don't know why the task force didn't answer, maybe there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u229	And there's a big crisis in Spain, so don't push us there. 8 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:49:56]] For the Not supported. 9th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u230	9th Amendment. 9 amendments to the amendment, I propose that part 9 of the first article 1 be completed. After the first sentence, in a new sentence, in a second sentence, this content is: "Professional qualifications are defined in the system of productive work and accredited." End of quote. This is a justification for the introduction in relation to the technical legal correction of the bill and the clarification of the terminology that I think is necessary. What is more, you can also see that the Chief Legal Authority also gives its comments to this bill, which is not yet included, unfortunately, in the preparation of this bill in the second reading. Please support my amendment. Opponents please wake up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u231	9 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[13:51:17]] For the four of us. Counted, counted. Overruled. 17th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u232	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that my amendments are not taken into account; in view of the fact that some are busy with their problems, I propose not to take into account the amendments made by Karmazin and the General Legal Department, that I send a bill for a second reading. A bill that does not include amendments to Karmazin does not have the right to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u233	Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u234	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, it is regrettable that the opposition of such a wise person has not been included in the list, and he always makes wise suggestions. We therefore support Jury Anatoleevich Karmazin's proposal that we should postpone the consideration of the bill and vote in favour of the second reading, because there are many disagreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u235	Yes. Yes. Yes, please, Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u236	I want to say that, dear colleagues, there's a point, a point made by the Chief Legal Authority, so if there's a second reading proposal, we need to take into account the emphasis, first of all, on legal administration. I also support the proposal of our colleagues – re-reading the second reading. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u237	Thank you. And if we vote, consider Karmazin's suggestions not to be repeated again or again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u238	All of Karmazin’s proposals will be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u239	I'm proposing to send a bill, bill number 9625 -- draft law on the system of professional qualifications for re-reading. Please vote. Vote. [[13:53:29]] For 231 Another reading. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, why am I continuing this meeting? Because you and I have made a decision, we will be working until the issues are resolved. It's better to work 15 minutes now than then. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on State regulation and administration in the field of transport and road transport]] [[Registration number 10458]] [[second reading]] Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich, head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, reports. Please, Mikhail Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u240	Honorary colleagues, honourable chairman, Supreme Council of Ukraine on 06.09.2012, as a result of the first reading, were adopted on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on State regulation and administration in the field of transport and road transport]] [[Registration number 10458]] [[from 14.05.2012]] [[tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers]] The bill proposes to amend 16 existing laws and codes, including the Code of Commercial Navigation of Ukraine, the Water Code, the Code of Air of Ukraine, the Laws of Ukraine on Road Traffic, On Transport, on Rail Transport, on Road Transport, on Road Transport, and on Dangerous Goods. By the second reading, the committee had received 53 suggestions from legal entities, including 37 proposals. All proposals were carefully considered at the meeting of the relevant subcommittees and the committee. Please support the proposal of the Committee for the adoption of the bill by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u241	Thank you. Let's move on to the amendments. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you giving up yours? Oh, no? Then the 3rd amendment is Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u242	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, not only do I not refuse, but since you are the first deputy in charge of these matters of distribution, I point out that you have entrusted the Transport Committee with amending the Code of Administrative Offences. It's totally wrong. It's not his object of knowledge, and you know it, Adam Ivanovich. Because of this, the gynecologist is tasked with repairing the sewage system. That's about the same thing. So, Adam Ivanovich, I wouldn't want us to have such gynecologists. And we have a committee on law enforcement. It's his object of activity. That's why I'm doing it, and I'm saying that it was necessary to take it down and put it on the committee that it belongs to. With regard to the exclusion of paragraph 3, each authority has its own authority. Here it is suggested that the head of the central authority decide on behalf of the maritime authorities, the annual transport authorities, to deal with administrative matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u243	3 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[13:57:25]] For -6 Not supported. 6th Amendment, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u244	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would still like to hear from you. Whether we always have gynecologists dealing with sewerage or how it is.? How do you even understand that, do you understand?Oh, my God! What the Transport Committee is saying right now is changing administrative legislation. Well, that's insane, Adam Ivanovich, it's totally insane! I suggested that paragraphs 3-5 of paragraph 3 be deleted. And I make this suggestion because there is an improper amendment to article 225, according to which, on behalf of the shipping authorities, the head of the central executive body has the right to deal with appropriate administrative violations and to impose administrative remedies. [[annual]] Think about it! Is that his constitutional authority? The Constitution states: "The legislative, executive and judicial authorities exercise their powers within the limits established by this Constitution and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine." This is article 6. "Governmental authorities."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u245	6 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[13:58:54]] For-9 Not supported. Carmazine's 10th amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u246	The 10th amendment concerns what I propose in paragraph 1 of paragraph 3 of section And the words "parts of second article 116" should be deleted. I understand what is obviously proposed and planned in such a way that this committee, which you somehow did not like, which is responsible for this legislation, would be removed from consideration of these issues. And I point out that neither the Science-Expert Authority nor the General Legal Authority has paid any attention to this violation of the subject of committee knowledge. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I do not consider it necessary to continue to reason. I'd like to hear if you were personally guided, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, when you determined that this was to be considered by the Transport Committee, not by a special committee of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u247	I didn't write this bill, so I have nothing to answer. The 10 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[14:00:30]] For the four of us. Not supported. Carmazine, 12th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u248	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, who will write the bill if you have not written it? Then let me know who's writing. We don't have anything, Tomenko, because he's sitting in the hall right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u249	Tomenko is not sitting, Tomenko is present.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u250	Who wrote it then, Head? Who wrote it? Someone wrote it down, you know how? We have, we can't find the guilty one, absolutely. I suggest in this amendment that you delete, by renumbering the points of this part accordingly, paragraph 3. In the first part of article 10 and so forth, replace the words "the central executive authority that provides." This proposal is made in connection with the submission of drafts to the Ukrainian Merchandise Maritime Code, some of which relate to the activities of the seaport. However, 08.06. became effective by the Supreme Council of the Law on Seaports. Under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u251	The 12 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:02:02]] For the five of us. Not supported. 13 amendments. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u252	Yuri Carmazin. It is unfortunate that we do not know that the Law has now been passed on the seaports to which the Ukrainian seaports have been handed over to the next clan. How did this end and end for Ukraine? In Illyshish, now about 2,000 people are going to shrink, and in Ishmael, it's also going to be about a thousand people cancel out and so on in all the port cities. What is the responsibility? It's called reform, it's called improvement of life now, Adam Ivanovich. And you say we don't know. I propose in paragraph 3 of section I, paragraph 3 after the words “river transport” to be supplemented by the words “national commission that regulates transport”. I make this suggestion in connection with what needs to be clarified, to whom exactly the central authority in the sphere offers proposals for the demolition, transfer, or alteration of buildings and structures that they create.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u253	13 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:03:31]] For the four of us. Not supported. 14th. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u254	Yuri Carmazin. I thank everyone who understands that the matter is hopeless, but nevertheless, he supports it because he sees it as fair corrections and fair remarks. I propose to rule out, by renumbering this part accordingly, paragraph 5. It is part two of article 21 that we should put in the form proposed. This is precisely because the Law on Seaports came into force on July 8. And in order to avoid contradictions in the regulation of appropriate social relations, provisions relating to the activities of the seaport, I think we need to remove all conflicting standards from this project because it was renewed by this law and not covered in this case. Please consider my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u255	The 14th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[2:04:55]] For -8 Not supported. 25th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u256	And the 17th, Adam Ivanovich, what can't you see?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u257	You have 17 even?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u258	I want to say there's another 17 before 25, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u259	Okay, 17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u260	Thank you for letting me. First of all, I'm allowed the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you. I propose in paragraph 7, paragraph 3, of section 1 to delete subsection 3 of section 1. I don't want to take the time. I won't argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u261	Thank you. 17th vote, please be determined. [[2:06:01]] For the five of us. 25th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u262	Thank you for counting at least 23. And the 25 amendment concerns that I propose paragraph 5 (1) of Part 5 to delete, namely: National Commission for State regulation in the field of transport. This proposal is due to the fact that, in the amendments to article 4 of the Ukrainian Air Code, one of the organs that regulates civil aviation and the use of air space in Ukraine. The bill is defined by a national commission that regulates the state, but what it should do in the rest of the project is not defined. In this regard, I believe that this body should be excluded in connection with a hierarchy of governing bodies such as one that only damages the system and does not have practical meaning. Instead, I wanted to draw your attention to what is practical -- this is the government's decision on September 26, 2012 that they want. [[No. 990]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u263	The 25 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:07:34]] For the four of us. Not supported. The number of unaccounted changes of Carmazin has been completed. 53rd, Carmazine. Counted. That's why we can. Yes, please, Pachet. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u264	Amendment 38.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u265	38th. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u266	I'm asking you to put 38 amendments on confirmation, as this amendment is a corrupt ingredient for raid tests. These are all the buses that work in Ukraine today, and they will be checked at any time as they were checked 15 years ago. So I propose not to vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u267	And I think it would be right if they were even more scrutinized, less accidents, less deaths. But the author's right. The 38 amendments considered are valid for confirmation. Please vote. [[14:08:43]] For 231 Correction counted. It's counted. Supported. 39 amendments are rejected, so we don't need to. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. The principal legal administration was concerned with observations. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and the whole Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on State regulation and administration in the field of transport and road transport]] [[Registration number 10458]] Please vote. [[14:09:35]] For 256 Thank you, the law has been passed. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u268	Break.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u269	It's gonna be a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u270	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Please return to Bill 11252 on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of urban activities. It's a very important bill, and we didn't have enough votes. Request: To return and vote on it in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u271	I repeat, your honor, on a law that has not been passed, on preschool education, we will not go back to it. So don't be in vain, I repeat: we won't go back. And we're not going back to the ground. There will be a hall to support the proposal. Chechotov's offer, please be sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u272	Break, Adam Ivanovich, break, break!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u273	[[14:10:47]] For 213 I won't. Dear colleagues, we have the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u274	Break.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u275	But in five minutes we won't be able to see him about taxes. Yeah? Will we make it? [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what I call it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u276	Break!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m0.u277	Then, dear colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Break till 4:00.
