ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:01:01]] The 414 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! On February 29, 2012, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Biláš Boris Fedorović, elected on September 30, 2007, in a state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, is included in the electoral list of the Party of Regions and on March 6, 2012, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Talishev Evgen Ivanovic, elected on September 30, 2007, in a state-wide multi-mandatory constituency constituency, is included in the electoral list of the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-defence" bloc. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Boris Fedorovich Bilash, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine! I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u3	Yes, welcome. What about the document? The National Deputy of Ukraine, Eugene Ivanovich Talishev, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine! I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u5	Please welcome Eugene Ivanovich Talish for making an oath. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 21 to 24 February 2012. Five plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place. Sixty-one questions of the agenda were considered. As a result of their consideration, 24 laws and 47 regulations were passed, 15 bills were passed on the basis, 2 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 2 bills were returned to the committee for further work, 12 bills and one draft decree were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions and groups with statements, reports, and so forth. Members of the factions who will speak will be invited to attend. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u6	Dear Hersons! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly challenged the issue of the inadmissibility of reducing train traffic and stops, since this applies to elderly people who have been deprived of access to the hospital’s district center, and this applies to students who are now unable to reach higher education institutions. Cynical notes were received from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and disgraceful business continues. Yesterday, four thousand residents of this area and surrounding areas were protesting at the New Alexiyevka knot station in Hersonian district. People are indignant that out of 132 trains arriving from Moscow, St. Petersburg, Belarus, almost half will not stop at the stations. These and other trains have been arriving on the Arab line for decades — clean sea, thermal water, high - quality food and shelter, and family rest. Someone doesn't want to understand that these are investments in the economy of the region and in the economy of the Genetic region. These are jobs for people, they are the only way to feed families, and they are the only way to survive. The Ukrainians, the Tatars, the Russians were unanimous: this is a genocide of people, this artificial transformation of this beautiful land into a desert. They demand that we do not prevent people from earning work beans, from giving up hope of survival, for 90 percent of the genetics are the only source of existence. In protest, the Communist youth blocked the railway with their home, stopping the train from going to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The government, including the Ukrainian national MPs, gave green light to the privatisation of the Crucifixions, opened a gateway to the slaughter and neglect of the people. During the raid, he died of a heart attack by the former head of the branch of the Ukrisibbank of Mikol Dol. And one of the district leaders said, "It doesn't matter." What Does It Matter — Man’s Life? Who, then, are your people? People were unable to speak to the head of the district government of Nimetullaev and other district leaders. Their helpless chatter was silenced by the words, "It's genocide against us, it's destruction." The road was unlocked only because my friends promised that the opinion of the geneticists and others would be announced in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on behalf of the Communist Party of Ukraine and that they would be heard by the government and the entire nation. People handed over to all of us and to the government of Ukraine, if they do not stop, and if they continue to do so, they leave behind the right to block the problem indefinitely. I'd like this speech to be like a parliamentary request. And we'd all like to. Here we were in Japan and we were going to Fukushima on a fast train that stops at every stop and is half-filled, or a third of everything, but no one even thought it would be necessary to cancel the movement of these trains. Should we not send the leader of the Crossroads, and let the Japanese teach him how to respect his country, how to respect people, and how to create comfortable conditions for people's lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u7	Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, please. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u8	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! Today, Ukraine is in isolation from both its own people and the international community. The government has ruined its relationship with Europe and is preparing to falsify the parliamentary elections, trying to change and underestimate the law adopted by consensus in our Hall, which will be used by the loyal Constitutional Court. And the Party of Regions thinks it's very clever and tries to hand over its satellites. The government also wants to overturn electoral districts, increase their numbers in the south and east of the country where counterfeiting is expected, and reduce them in the west and in the capital of our state. In order to underestimate the law and open the door to abuse in elections, funds were allocated only to members of the electorate. And another 400 million dollars, the government has regretted that this money is meant to prevent counterfeiting. Representatives of our faction Arsenij Yatsenuk and Ruslan Knazevitch also had to register a draft Decision on the invitation of representatives of foreign states and international organizations as official observers in the elections of Ukraine’s national deputies in October 2012. Because we have the impression that the authorities are not going to invite them. In addition to manipulations in elections, authorities try to bribe people because even in Donbas they are publicly shown red cards. The president was loudly anouncing social payments, but it's only a way to get votes in the elections. Money taken from the shoulders of the bar for pensioners and other underprivileged citizens will instantly eat inflation. The opposition has long insisted on raising social standards, not through a printing press, but through fair use of public funds for the benefit of citizens. In particular, we have introduced a bill to cut spending on the President, the government and other public authorities. These billions of dollars should be directed towards social needs. But for two years, all legislative initiatives of opposition are persistently ignored. For example, the vast majority on the President's team canceled the amendment of Areseni Yatsenuk to the pension law, which increased pensions by an average of 334 bracelets. And now the authorities are going to pay only 100 dollars because of the election. The united opposition has a package of suggestions on how to get Ukraine out of the corner of politics and economics. We must immediately put an end to political persecution, free Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka, and ensure their participation in the elections. This will only allow for the signing of an Association Agreement with the EU, including the Free Trade Area. We need to get Gazprom to an international court on an urgent basis and reduce the price of gas in a civilized way. The opposition's primarily socio-economic bills need to be adopted, which have already failed most parliaments. In particular, changes to the Tax Code, which stimulate the development of entrepreneurship and job creation, are mentioned in the increase of pensions by 334 bracelets and so forth. This is going to be a test for power, not a bunch of people's taxes before the election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u9	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Next is Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u10	Honorable MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Since its creation, the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future has consistently supported positive reforms in Ukraine. Among the priorities we identified and continued to support five. It is precisely five basic reforms aimed at creating an active energy and food security system, social reforms aimed at creating social and household protection for Ukrainian citizens. And Ukraine's future education and applied science reforms. The results of these reforms, in our view, should be clear achievements for every Ukrainian. They are worthy of pensions and salaries, low-cost and high-quality food products for Ukrainian production, the energy independence of our state and its citizens, eligible housing conditions, understandable and predictable taxes, quality education with a diploma of an international model that is recognized, including abroad. A functioning applied science, an active three-level pension system, and effective insurance. Today, we welcome and support new initiatives on reforming the social policy model, which were finally broadcast by the President of Ukraine to the Kabmin meeting last Wednesday. At the same time, I would like to hear a few things without which, in our view, such reforms are impossible. First. To achieve an effective outcome, we cannot afford to make social reform fragmented. You can't keep putting out one fire and waiting for another. There is a need for a systematic reform project with mandatory involvement of professional project managers whose basic expertise is in the implementation of projects. The other one. The representatives of the executive authorities should eventually get rid of the negative habit of translating key regulatory powers from their shoulders on the shoulders of local self-government authorities, but the possibilities in the latter are not so many. And the haircut of the only place to make a decision is washed to the state of anarchy. This is about tariffing or land use, or about guarantees of investment. Third. The source of funding for such social initiatives should not be an additional issue, not an external borrowing, not a tightening of the tax loop on the business side, or the underfunding of government officials or protected articles of government budget expenditure, which should be done on the basis of simple and effective sources that depend solely on the political will of you and the President. For example, the introduction of a real, rather than a fictitious rent on the extraction and use of natural resources such as ore, oil, gas, diamonds, gold, rare-earth metals, slimes; the removal of the Ukrainian budget of unwarranted benefits and their replacement for targeted financing; the return to a progressive system of taxation of the income of natural persons; the closure of any loopholes and corrupt channels on customs, and the implementation of a program of protection, the real protection of a domestic producer. This list can be extended. Let us continue the list of conditions under which social reform is impossible. Without the inclusion of low-cost energy resources or the formation of innovative, state-supported and national sciences of alternative sources of energy, the prospect of social stability can also be overlooked. Just understanding that a teacher, a scientist and any citizen can't be poor is a fundamental first step towards changing the strategic thinking of the future state. And the last. We need to change our consumer worldview with you, politicians, and crime-related "outside" coordinates that have been artificially imposed on society for the past 8 years. Ukraine, I am sure, needs the consolidation of representatives of both minorities and the majority for the main purpose: Ukraine and its future. We, the Reformers for the Future, support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u12	We, as representatives of the Reform Group for the Future, will be fully supportive of these social initiatives. And in the case of the creation of working groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u13	Thank you, thank you. Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich, faction of the Party of the Regions, is invited to attend. Vassil Shpak will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u14	Dear compatriots! Dear National Deputies! There are complex economic and political processes in the world that have created new challenges for Ukraine, including socio-economic ones. Ukraine's economy experienced significant losses in 2008-2009: gross domestic product fell by 15 percent, industrial production by 22 percent. In the last 2010-2011, Ukraine's consolidated efforts ensured a positive economic growth of an average of up to 5 per cent of gross domestic product. But one of our most important and painful problems, which has certainly been formed, and in all previous years, remains the problem of poverty and the low capacity of Ukrainian citizens. Independent research has shown that Ukrainian citizens, according to income indicators, are making a significant contribution to European standards. That is why the distinguished national MPs, the social initiatives of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine are extremely relevant and timely. The issue of social policy for strengthening living standards in Ukraine is of national importance. It is important that the resources to raise the standard of living of citizens be shaped, not by external borrowing and by increasing the debt of the Ukrainian State, but by increasing the efficiency of the economy. So you need a clear system of action: increasing the number of new jobs, improving fiscal policies, reducing corruption rates and introducing luxury taxes, introducing targeted social protection methods, improving investment climate, developing business and developing a powerful middle class. Particularly important is the revitalization of the internal market, the increase in its capacity and capacity, the need for effective import programmes, the increase in localization of production, which would allow for the full activation of the entire human, intellectual, productive power of the state, and, in particular, the reduction of Ukraine’s dependence on external economic, political conditions. In principle, it is important to increase business activity within the country, create transparent, honest and predictable economic conditions for the state and business, public partnership methods, protect owners' rights, investors, corporate security in general. Doing the social work of the President of the country cannot be a temporary campaign. Increasing the quality of the standard of living of citizens is a strategic direction of the country's development that is not related to the temporary situation. This is our highway. So let's all, and the parliamentary majority, and the opposition, we'll realize that. This is about the most important issues of society’s life - style that must unite power and society, all of them regardless of the political color, of interpersonal competition. People estimate the state, not at the rate of GDP growth, but at the rate of its rising level and quality of life, wages, pensions, confidence in tomorrow. Ukraine has a very powerful technical, industrial, human potential, but to do so requires consolidation of efforts, clear coordinated action by the President, the government and parliament for the necessary support of society, to which we call. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u15	Špak Vasil Fedorovich, faction of the People's Party. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Russia's refusal to import Ukrainian cheeses, the absence of alternative dairy markets today and the reduction of its own consumption of milk products have had a very negative impact on the economy of agriculture and agriculture during the preparation period and on the beginning of spring and field work, when the necessary cost of material and technical resources, the purchase of high-quality milk from dairy complexes has decreased by one-third, up to 3.2 GW per litre, and the purchase of milk from private farmers has already become lower than 2 GW, and since then production, the implementation of milk has become cost-effective. There is no contractual partnership between milk producers and manufacturing enterprises, as well as a monopoly. A monopolistic conspiracies involving purchases of milk prices cause great damage to the manufacturer. Contracts that are sent by mail to agricultural enterprises unilaterally dictate the price of milk. And that's because the cash prices for milk are three times lower. This is the situation in which the modern milk and commodities complex of the New Court in the Hmelnicki district, which is made up of highly productive breeding animals of the Dutch breed. The daily hopes of milk are 25 liters [25 L] per cow. Hadachsyr of the Poltav region, which has been supplied by the company since 1 January of this year, has reduced the purchase price by 1.2 bracelets and is not counted at all. So far, the debt is 1.2 million dollars. A contract imposed on an enterprise provides a fine of 10 percent of the value of unsupplied milk and no allowance. And this is called a partnership! By the way, milk debt in general in the hops region today accounts for more than 20 million dollars. This is another argument of the need to change the structure of agricultural production, to move it to full-scale farms, with a limited number of leased agricultural land. Dear Mikola Janovich! In view of the current situation, we are asking you to apply state-owned weights in support of dairy enterprises, to establish economically sound milk prices, to calculate the timeliness of the accounts, and to allocate them from the State Income Credit Budget so as not to lose productive potential, to preserve the actual cows' flocks and to allow them to carry out spring-field jobs. My statement is to be considered a parliamentary request to the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u17	Andrew Kožemiakin, BUT faction, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u18	Good afternoon! On February 26, two years had passed since the Ukrainian people were forced to live under new authority under the authoritarian regime. During this time, fundamental changes have taken place, but they are not at all what people have been promised. Against the background of the critical state in which our country has been confronted, President Janukovic is adamant in his interviews with central television channels about the steady growth of the economy, the improvement of the welfare and quality of life of citizens. [[Multiple quotations]] Similar improvements have already come to destroy small and medium-sized businesses, leading defenseless levels of the population to the limit of extreme poverty, the theft of black people and Afghans. [[in quotes]] The president said, "We're back in the constitutional process." Obviously unconstitutional. Or was he referring to the coup that took place here in parliament because of political corruption? Further implementation, the so - called constitutional reform, does not provide for opposition forces, which means that the authorities want to consolidate authoritarianism in Ukraine, destroy real opposition, and deprive the people of their own rightful choice of power. The next quote of the guarantor is, "We have to modernize criminal and procedural legislation, reform the judiciary and the judiciary." Instead, the Ukrainian courts began to be guided, not by the rule of law, but by guidelines from Banking Street. Isn't it reform? The verdicts given to Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko were fully confirmed. The same is true with the reform of criminal legislation in Ukraine. The new Criminal Procedure Code, prepared by the Presidential Administration, has nothing to do with harmonising the criminal legislation of the European Union. If we really want to achieve at least the least success in European integration, to become, as President Yanukovic, a civilized European country, says, we cannot ignore the demands of the European community. Our faction proposed bills that would allow the basic requirements of the resolution to be met in the shortest possible time. Most rejected them. We proposed amendments to the Criminal Code, and they ignored them. As a result, Ukraine is receiving ever more severe warnings from Europe. The five foreign ministers of the European Union issued a statement stating that the Ukrainian authorities had taken action and inaction, namely the refusal to comply with the requirements of the PARJE Resolution, and had brought the signing of an association agreement with the European Union to a dead end. Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, leaders of European countries demand that the Stalinic articles in the Criminal Code of Ukraine be abolished. But they remain there as an active tool to destroy opposition leaders. The president says he's ready to pardon Julia Timoshenko. Isn't that a Pharisee? Julia Volodymyrna stated that such an offer was definitely unacceptable to her, she considered it beneath her honour and dignity to appeal to the President for clemency because the case against her was fabricated under the control of the President. Our faction and the entire democratic people are also convinced that Timoshenko has committed no crime and should be free. The "BUT – "Paternity" faction continues to require urgent implementation of the resolution of PARJA and the cessation of political repression in Ukraine. Ignoring the opinion of the international community discredits the image of our state, and possible sanctions against Ukraine in the current state of the economy will inevitably lead to a default. In fact, the solved war of power with opposition is a war with its own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. At the same time, two factions: the faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" and the faction "The Yulia Timoshenko – "Father's Mother" have filed an application demanding a 30-minute recess. You're ready to make your statement now. Arsenius Yatzenuk has a word for the statement of two factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u20	Dear Chairman! Honorable Members of Parliament, Power and Opposition! The opposition appealed to President Yanukovic for a meeting. No wonder President Janukovic ignored the opposition because he probably had nothing to say to the opposition or to his own people. But after the opposition made a clear list of demands, one of the points was changes to social legislation and the restoration of social justice and economic growth. President Janukovic mentioned that he was the President, he mentioned that promises should be made to the people of Ukraine, and for some reason he thought that it was before the parliamentary elections that the Ukrainians could buy votes for the taxes he is offering today as a kind of social initiative by President Yanukovic. I want to speak only numbers and facts. And so, first. President Janukovic announced that he would pay the Ukrainian pensioners 100 dollars, forgetting that it was he and his last majority six months ago that he had been removed from the Pension Insurance Act of the 40th Amendment, which was made by the opposition and by me, which predicted the recalculation of pensions, attention, on 334 bracelets for 10 million pensioners! The opposition therefore asks President Yanukovic the first question. Victor Fedorovich, where did 234 bracelets of 10 million Ukrainian pensioners go? Back in the pockets of the Party of Regions? The other one. We have carefully analyzed the very approach taken by the party of power to the payment of 100 dollars. It turns out that one million Ukrainian pensioners receive a supplement of up to 500 dollars. However, the left wing of pensioners, namely, 7 million Ukrainians, receive a supplement of up to 20 dollars. So the authorities averaged 100 dollars per Ukrainian pensioner. Next. The president promised to pay 165 sums for former military personnel. I want to ask the government and the President, do they know article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service, which requires an increase of 800 dollars in the pension for military personnel? We have a second question to the President: Mr. President, where are 635 dollars of Ukrainian pensioners? Third. The President promised to help with Victory Day 2,000 and 200 dollars, forgetting that the valid War veterans ’ law promises and obliges the President to provide such assistance up to 8,000 dollars. Mr. President, where are the 5,000 bucks of every war veteran? The opposition introduced its package of laws that should stabilize the economic situation and restore social justice. We're waiting to meet Yanukovic, we're sure of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u21	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u22	President Yanukovic does not need to hide from the people or from the opposition. We demand that the President restore social justice and expect him not to hide from the opposition, from his own people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the proposals and demands that have been made in the speeches of the national MPs, especially those that are motivated by parliamentary requests, I ask you to prepare appropriate letters, petitions and assignments. Regarding proposals to invite representatives of international parliamentary organizations to observe the preparations and conduct of future elections in Ukraine. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed that in the coming days such invitations on behalf of the Supreme Council to international parliamentary organizations would be directed. So I think that we're all the only ones here who need this to be resolved. It's about social initiatives. Dear colleagues, on Friday, during the "hour of questions to the Government" we will have the opportunity to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers on this subject, as well as to ask questions to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to then take the appropriate decisions, particularly in the part of the change to the State Budget of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with my personal statement, I report that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Biláš Boris Fedorovic, has been appointed as a member of the Party of the Regions. Dear National Deputies! Let us now consider the issues set out in the schedule for Tuesday, March 13. We need to put the committee and factions in order of the day, and we need to look more closely at the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily series of bills. This is the draft Act amending Ukraine's Land Code and other legislation on land administration related to the establishment and change of the administrative and territorial units. [[Registration number 10044]] Please vote. Take off the vote, one minute, take off the vote. Please, Yuri Klukkowski. Then there's Ganushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I propose not to discuss today the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the day session. The point is, it's fully focused on addressing the administrative and territorial issues of Ukraine. However, he proposes to make these changes to the Earth Code, which is totally out of harmony with the subject matter of the earth code. Yesterday, at the round table on our committee, government officials said that a bill had been drafted to address the issues of the administration, which will soon be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to ask you to postpone the question of this bill until a government bill on this issue is introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u25	Thank you. Hanusztak, "BUT" faction, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u26	I want to say one thing as I go along with Klukkowski's opinion. The question of defining the boundaries of administrators relates to the public sphere. And it's not land that should work here, it's cartographers and urbanists. This is the first position. The second position is clearly a lobbying project aimed at loading the Statecomme and giving a lot of money, and the work is totally unnecessary. Third position. If that is the case, the main issue should be, not the land committee, but the committee of Omelchenka. Because this applies to public authorities. And fourth position. The Admin Act. If you don't even give it to the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm willing to serve it because I've been cooking these things anyway. So I think it's premature to do these things and it's very expensive for the state. Please take that question off.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We have, when they want to crash the law, they ask them to move it, play the game in a long time, put it in a long box and so on, and so on and so forth. In my view, both the work of the Committee and the work of Parliament and the relevant executive institutions of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee must be included in the agenda. We are not looking at first reading, and when included in the agenda, this is kind of an incentive, it's kind of a certain incentive, so to speak, an incentive for both committees and the executive relevant authorities of the State to prepare for the first reading. We therefore propose to include it in the agenda. Then, before the first reading, discuss, including the Committee with the State Committee, and the Parliamentary Committee for adoption on first reading. Not sabotage the adoption of this 8th law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u29	Respectable national MPs have already been announced to raise the issue of acceptance. on the inclusion in the agenda. At the same time, serious comments were made that need proper attention. And I'm betting on the vote, however, the first sentence. Please, Kaletnik. Cage, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u30	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to tell you that in order of the day, there are two mutually harmonized bills, 10042 and 10043. And I want to pay attention to my colleagues, the first two speakers, that this is about the question, not about the administrative and territorial system, but about the delimitation of the land of municipal and state property. In this regard, however, there is a change in the boundaries that may come out. Because the distinction between land and rural areas, towns, and cities, and the delimitation of land beyond their borders, which will apply to state land, will call for changes in such boundaries. So these are completely profiled two bills. This is the competence of the Committee of the Supreme Council in matters of agar politics and land relations. And I want to say the next thing. In the last 20 years, only 0.7 percent of the difference between municipal and state property has been made from the general need. It takes 5 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u31	Thank you. The proposal is understood, so we're moving on to the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue my offer. In view of the fact that a vote has already been announced for inclusion in the agenda. In the event that the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this proposal, I believe that the Committee on State Building should also be entrusted with participating in the drafting of this bill and in discussing it as co-reporters for this purpose. The document's already on the table, so we'll have to go back. There'll be no difference, there'll be reporters from two committees. Well, please. That is why I am voting on the proposal to include a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and other Ukrainian legislation on land administration work related to the establishment and change of territorial units. [[Registration number 10042]] Please vote. [[10:42:49]] For 247 Decision taken. It is now proposed that consideration be given to the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property. [[Registration number 10043]] Who's it gonna be, Kirilenko Ivan? Ivan Kirilenko, please, for this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As with the previous law, we have similar comments. But let's add, we're not just going to be, we're not going to support, we're going to vote against it. This law opens the gates of volunteerism. Read the very first sentence in the conclusions, which clearly states: "The project is aimed at refusing the legal order of delimitation of state and municipal property." So it's already destroying the system that is here. Not an inventory of land, not yet published. Imagine today, almost all the earth is scattered, it's near the cities, near the big cities. What should we do with the bread crutches? This law corrupts, goes down to the fate of the people, by fate, because the law already defines what state acts are on hand. Then it is discrimination against local self - government, especially in the village. Clearly, megapolises will push, this law allows for this pressure. We are firmly opposed to volunteering in this regard. We have high suspicion that this is being done under the land market law, so that this volunteerism will continue in this law. The faction will not support this bill, will vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u33	Gregory Kaletnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill amending legislation on the delimitation of state and municipal property is intended to conduct and lose all work. I didn't make the deal before. Five billion dollars is needed to start work on the delimitation of these lands. The bill introduces a completely new approach. This bill is not levelling at all, nor does it regulate the land that is scattered; they remain outside the scope of the bill. This bill is distributed only on the land of state and municipal property, which should quickly bring and save, as a minimum, 5 billion dollars that can be spent simply for a discount. Over the past 10 years, only 260,000 hectares [260,000 ha] of land have been spent. If we divide them at this rate, it'll take another 100 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for inclusion in the agenda is put to the vote, if the decision is taken to add a statement to the matter with the State Building Committee's co-report. Is there no objection? With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of state and municipal property. Please vote. [[10:46:47]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on certain issues of debt to defence and industrial enterprises – participants in the Ucrobanprom State Company and to ensure their sustainable development. [[Registration number 10034]] Please vote. [[10:47:22]] For 270. Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for a day-to-day draft Ordinance on measures to implement the recommendations and requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. Let's do it this way, dear fellows. If there's no objection, if the faction insists, one from the faction. Is there no objection? Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Because it's sensitive, and now we're going to have a charge here, the question of inclusion in the agenda, if there's an insistence, is a reduced procedure. Please, the chairman of the committee is Oleg Belarus. Lies down Grigorovich, on the rostrum. And then two is in favour, two is against, and we vote. And then Ivan Popescu. Well, there's no objection to that offer? I won't. Oh, thank God! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! The situation of co-operation between Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was further exacerbated after we received and became acquainted with Resolution No. 1862 on the Functioning of Democratic Institutions in Ukraine. After the initial reaction, the question of disenfranchisement of the Ukrainian delegation of voting rights is again being resolved in South Africa. This is unacceptable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since PARJE is an inter-parliamentary organization, so the responsibility of the Supreme Council is to restore ties and establish operational contacts for the continuation of the successful activities of our delegation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the Resolution of PARJE, studied the report of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and decided by its decision to develop a balanced, peaceful draft of the Supreme Council Regulation, which proposes to approve the implementation of the recommendations and requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for the fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations, which took them before joining this authoritative international organization. The draft regulation and the proposed measures present ten key points, and you've read about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u39	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u40	Considers it appropriate to accept immediately so that we can work on the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u41	Yes, Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u42	The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe considered and adopted Resolution 1862 on the functioning of democratic institutions in Ukraine on 26 January this year. But at the same time, we should point out that Ukraine, despite changing governments, came the new Supreme Councils, elected by the people, but to carry out the points that we took to the conclusion of the 190th when we joined the Council of Europe, was not done. I would like to report that, in accordance with the President’s decree last January, a plan for fulfilling our obligations to the Council of Europe has been approved. We did 11 very important points that year. At this point, we have yet to make the 190th most important introductory commitments. It's the adoption of the new Criminal Procedure Code, the Laws on Lawyers and the Procurator's Office. Once we do that, we will formally fulfil all our obligations, and there will be grounds for us to talk about the fact that we are putting an end to the monitoring process and moving on to the post-monitoring dialogue with the Council of Europe. In addition, I would like to report that the 8-9 number of bureaux and the post of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have once again drawn attention to the fact that the Supreme Council must fulfil the part of the commitment it owes. So I informed both the Bureau and the Standing Committee that, despite the fact that the Foreign Minister's speech and the consideration of these issues had been made in the Supreme Council, unfortunately, the rostrum was blocked by opposition and then not voted. I hope we're going to put it into the agenda today, and we're going to sort it out. I personally proposed a project that is depoliticized and gives us the opportunity to fulfil our obligations both to the Council of Europe and to those paragraphs of the resolution that correspond to the national interests of Ukraine and that correspond to the norms of the Constitution and the laws in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u43	Do you have everyone? Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u44	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, please register for and against the inclusion in the order of the day. Names of the National Deputies that are registered, please. Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine" faction is the People's Self-Defense. Then Yuri Prokopchuk will.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Andrey Parubia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u47	Andrew Parubius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u48	A boy named Andrew. My dear colleagues, this question, I think, is very important today for Ukrainian domestic politics, because in recent years the Ukrainian state has made a huge leap from the path to the European Union. And today, when we received recommendations from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it is essential for Ukraine to be able to make the most of the recommendations in Ukraine. Because if we do not go that way, there is no doubt that Ukraine will enter international isolation. And so it is very important for us that the supreme legislative body of the state, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is actually shaping the principles of foreign and domestic policy, be able to provide an adequate and clear answer to this question. The bill submitted by Mr. Belarus was discussed at the Committee on Foreign Affairs and was fully supported by almost unanimously by the entire Committee on Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. And in fact, this bill, I think, is the most comprehensive of what the Ukrainian State and its leadership are going to do to meet the demands and recommendations of PAREA. Of them, of course, one of the most important is the decriminalization of articles of the Criminal Code, which date back to Stalin’s day. That is why I call on the Ukrainian Parliament, the members of the Supreme Council to put this bill in order and to support it, because it depends to a large extent on the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on whether it will be in the European Union to European standards, whether it will go to the Eurasian Union, the Customs Union, where unfortunately we are also pushed by the Russian leadership, and unfortunately many of the leaders of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u49	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u51	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! The Timoshenko Block, Fatherland, insists on the adoption of a project prepared by our colleagues, including the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Belarus. In fact, these are exactly two documents presented by Mr. Popescu and Mr. Belarus. Mr. Belarus's document states that over the last two years, and this is actually in the resolution of 26 January of this year, there have been very significant withdrawals from democracy and the principles of democracy in Ukraine. In Ukraine political convicts have appeared, in Ukraine after judicial reform the work of the courts has actually deteriorated, and the courts have become dependent. That is why our faction insists that a document be voted on by Mr. Belarus and their colleagues who have passed the approval of a professional committee that clearly defines the key parameters, namely, the release of persons who have been imprisoned directly because of the selectivity of the judiciary, Timoshenko, Lucenko, Yvashchenko, and others. Making changes to relevant articles 364 and 365 that do not meet the European principles of direct application of this legislation. The introduction of a direct practice of reforming the judiciary, where the courts should be independent of the President's administration, not of prosecutorial supervision. This project provides an opportunity to answer questions that have become evident in the last two years. And the fact that the project was submitted by our colleague from the faction of the region, it sets out general principles that we haven't implemented since 1995. So these projects are not alternatives, they are projects that have been mutually reinforcing our commitments since 1995, and what has happened to the withdrawal of democracy in the last two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u53	John Popescu instead of a colleague of Fedun. Then Grivkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u54	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to respond to the previous speaker. The point is, really, my draft ruling is broader, but it also provides for the implementation of resolution 1862. I would also like to remind you that resolution 1862 itself states that Ukraine has not fulfilled all its obligations throughout the years since its accession to the Council of Europe. Thus, the fulfilment of those remaining obligations in line with conclusion 190 is part of the implementation of resolution 1862. One second. Under paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the resolution itself, where it comes to both the prosecution and the judicial system, and other points, we are obliged to examine the experience of the Council of Europe on the standards of criminal law, electoral law, the regulation of the judicial system, and the activities of political parties. And in accordance with the Council of Europe standards, we must make appropriate changes to our legislation. The same applies to articles 364, 365. I would like to remind you that in our own time when we were getting conclusions on the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the GRECO group had no reservations about these articles. We really need to modernize them, but we must take to heart the experience of the Council of Europe. To date, the Ministry of Justice has already analysed the experience of 30 countries of the Council of Europe where these points are being formulated. So what I'm proposing. I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers take concrete steps. And I would like to propose that the first step to accelerate, in accordance with our Rules, the adoption of the Code of Criminal Procedure. And we also need to accept the issue of the Prosecutor's and Attorney's Law. Once we adopt the Criminal Procedure Code, we decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u55	Finish up. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u56	Once we've accepted the KPC, we'll solve at least a third of the issues that were raised at the level.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We agreed with you on the Conciliation Council and last Friday, and on Monday, I mean, when it was plenary week, Friday, that we would include this issue in the agenda and this question would be made up of two draft rulings. In the process of considering what is already practical in the session room, we will then make arguments. It may be necessary to do so, to agree, and to come up with a consistent solution that would, of course, have a compromise but at the same time corresponded to the importance of the moment in connection with the relevant resolution of Paris. So I would ask that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the proposal to include this issue in the agenda, as we did at the Conciliation Council. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to put the agenda into order, namely the draft regulations on the implementation of the recommendations and requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe PARJE Resolution 1862 of 26.01.2012 "Functioning democratic institutions of Ukraine". [[2012]] [[Registration numbers 10055, 10078]] Please vote. [[11:02:03]] For 410 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 187, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 98, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 42, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 19. Thank you, dear colleagues, for fulfilling our agreed agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like the committee to prepare this matter for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, it is proposed that you consider the 110th anniversary of the birth of the heroin mother who raised 48 children, Alexander Avramivn Derevsky, to include him in the agenda. [[Registration number 9701]] Please vote. [[11:03:12]] For 338 Decision taken. It is proposed that you consider the draft Law on Reestablishing the Network of Preschool Schools to include it in the agenda. [[Registration number 9794]] Please vote. Please vote. [[11:03:44]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Factions, factions, please. Region Party – 20, "BUT – Fatherland" – 51, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 14, communists – 25, People's Party – 18, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 6. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Dear colleagues, please. Who's to go back to the question of including him in the agenda, please vote. Please vote. [[11:04:25]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 91, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 30, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 16, "The People's Party – 20, non-factional – 6. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the wages for joining the networks of natural monopolies. [[Registration number 9011]] Please vote. [[11:05:06]] For 279 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda the bill amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. [[on the grounds for the registration of means of transport]] [[Registration number 10021]] Please vote. [[11:05:37]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. I would like to ask the committees on those bills that the Supreme Council has made a positive decision to prepare them for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with my personal statement, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Talishev Yevgen Ivanovich, into the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" faction. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider a number of issues in the re-examination regime after they've been processed by the committees. Please, Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the issue of the Customs Code is now under way. I remind you that the President has made a commitment to this project, we have made a decision to refer it to work, we have not considered essentially the President's amendment. Then came such a thing that the people's deputies on the committee made 59 rights, which were new, which the President did not touch at all. Among other things, many of them are openly corrupt. Well, let's say there's a foreign investment there now that's going to import even a coat there, not just the basic funds. Or perhaps the President offered to increase the temporary import of cars for a year, and the deputies decided to increase it by three years instead of six months. Or perhaps the 148th article is in general in conflict with the TP conventions, where tobacco and alcohol are now being transported through Ukraine outside the convention. Well, and so on, so if. I don't know what we're going to be looking at, but if we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u59	Please complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u60	So we urge the faction to put everyone without excluding the right to confirm, in accordance with the Law on the Rules and urge all national deputies to vote in favour of our great President, Mr. Janukovich, and not to vote in favour of the alternative proposals of the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u61	Thank you. Thank you. If the President of Ukraine uses the veto, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may agree if the President proposes to repeal the law or defeat the President's veto. One second. When the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes into account the President's proposals and adopts legislation in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. And the third moment. The Supreme Council, after examining the President's remarks, can direct this law to the committee. Then the President's amendments and the amendments of the people's deputies are considered, and we're actually adopting a new law after the work. That's why we'll be right after the committee report. If a specific amendment is urged to put to the vote for confirmation or non-confirmation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should do so. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On November 3, last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Customs Code, which the President returned to the Supreme Council with reasoned proposals. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, these proposals deserve the support of the Supreme Council. The same is true of the committee. At the same time, the proposal for some codex rules needed to be harmonized with other rules of the Code, as well as with other laws of Ukraine. By its decision of February 9, 2012, the Supreme Council returned the codex to the Committee to work on the proposal of the President of Ukraine. The Committee, together with representatives of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, conducted the preparation of this amended bill for consideration by the Supreme Council and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a law. In all, 148 amendments have been made to the Customs Code, 133 of which are entirely and 15 are edited. These amendments shall in particular provide for the handover of all legal and regulatory authority orders from the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to be made more transparent; the provision of a more transparent order for customs authorities to control the correctness of the customs value of goods and the provision of more opportunities for declarants to defend their rights in disputes with customs authorities on this subject; the reduction of the total cost of goods that may be exported by citizens to the customs territory of Ukraine without paying taxes through land and sea passes from thousands to 500 euros; the increase in the total duration of temporary importation by non-residents of transport equipment, in particular from six months to a year; the exclusion of customs brokering activities from the number of activities carried out by customs authorities in accordance with the Customs Code, which licences are granted and a strong operating procedure for licensing of this activity. Exclusion from the Customs Code of Provisions which gives customs authorities the right to perform forensic expertise. The creation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of a separate Law on the Procedure for Damage and Property Compensation of the person concerned by unlawful decisions, actions or omissions of customs authorities, organizations or their officials or other employees in carrying out their duties. The new Customs Code is a legislative act that is as close as possible to European and world standards and provides for a significant simplification of customs control and customs procedures in export-import operations. Rather, its entry into force would be not only in the interests of business, both domestic and foreign, but also of the State as a whole. Therefore, the committee also recommended that the new Customs Code be put into effect within a month of the signing by the President. I mean, if it's signed in this month, a month from the first number of the next month, it has to go into effect. So all the amendments have been analysed with the Cabinet of Ministers, I repeat, by the President's Administration and those who had before, by the deputies who were interested in these issues, and we are ready to take this legislative act as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, then we'll go to the repairs. Vitalia Yuriovich, so are we gonna start with these presidential amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u64	So I don't understand which. All revisions are counted or counted on an editorial basis. If Terhochin’s amendments are separate, let him put his amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, if the MP insists on an amendment that is considered, we should place it on confirmation. So now I just want to clarify. Vitalia Yuriovich, we're going to go through the amendments that were from the President, or do we go from the beginning to the end? Notice, then, what I was put here. One minute! Welcome to Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u66	According to the Rules of Procedure, we voted on what we sent to the committee to work on the President's proposals. So in order to be comfortable looking at this document, we distributed the entire text where the president's amendments were, and the amendments that were made by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u67	And these amendments that you have are 47th. From 47th to 141st. Is that what you need to do, are those extra repairs? How Can I Understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u68	In fact, it's a new edition. It's a new regulation, and I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u69	So we're going to go to the repairs, because there's a separate amendment for you. Do you understand what this is about? Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. Yuri Anatolyovich, I'd like to ask you how we're going to get this fixed. Come on, let's get to the amendment and we'll discuss it then. Please! First. I'll start with the first amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! First amendment. Please, Terjehochin insists that she be voted on. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! We turned ourselves in the wrong direction. Here's an example. The President's first amendment, which speaks of customs authorities being unable to issue legislation. [[of customs duties in the region]] It's the right thing to do. What's the committee doing? Accepts the second amendment that cancels it at all. What was adopted in the law. And it was passed in the law: a minimum of 45 days to publish such acts of customs. So that's essentially contradicting, distorting what the President proposed. That's why we're now proposing that the President's regulation, which is written "edited" is a lie! It is not taken into account in an editorial way – to confirm and to vote in favour of the President. That's why the second readjustment is being rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting solely on the amendments that are offered in the process of work. We can't go back, please note, we can't go back solely to the precise drafting of the President's proposals, because it was about this law being worked out. And now formed, I ask you, but according to the requirements of the Rules, if the amendment is taken into account, we will put it to the vote to confirm it. That's why I'm putting to the vote, please pay attention, to the first proposal that's taken into account. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u72	Please support the President's proposal. [[11:17:36]] For 248 Decision taken. Amendment 2. Who insists on her vote? Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u73	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 2 revisions provide for the deletion of part six of article 2. It's about that amendment that's now being taken into account by the President. And now the article should be called, "Normal legal acts on customs matters take effect 45 days after their state registration and publication." It's okay. Because the President suggested that the words "visited by customs" be deleted. That's a very good offer. National deputies of Ukraine, members of a committee without names, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, this is forbidden by the Rules of Art, we all have to have a name here. That's why I'm making remarks about it. We've been given such proposals without a name. And this amendment needs to be rejected. So I'm asking questions about the confirmation of this amendment. I'm talking to the majority, it has to be rejected, and then it goes through the previous 248 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to focus, not on the form, but on the meaning. What's more, when we're looking at a work in progress, one minute when we're looking at the amended law, we're going to follow the process of consideration in the second reading. So we vote, if there's insistence, all the amendments. And this was confirmed by my consultation with the Rules Committee. That's why the vote is, please note, the amendment number two, which is included, on its confirmation, please vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to focus on your work. [[11:19:41]] For 264 Well, the committee doesn't think they're mutually exclusive. We'll be there. Well, what can we offer? Then let's go back to the end, let's go through, let's make amends. I would ask both the committee and the deputies to calm down. Because here's a statement that we made with two confirmations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u75	We counted it and then we ruled it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u76	Yeah. Oh, and they consider it counted. Then, after we get through, if there's a variation, we'll go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u77	We ruled it out, and then we counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u78	You turned it off. First count, 248. And now they've even ruled out everything where the amendments were made.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! Okay. Okay. Then do we need to rule out this article?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u80	No, it's not. All we have to do is count the first one, the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u81	We counted it. The committee also proposes to take account of the situation. Please, Vitaly Yuriovich, for this matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we're nothing. Dear colleagues! We did the right thing. Notice, the President's 1st amendment we took into account, the 2nd amendment of the people's deputies was part of the sixth part of the article to rule out. I put the proposal to the vote, and the Supreme Council confirmed that we were excluding this article. So I'd like that. That's right!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u82	No, Vladimir Mikhailovich, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u83	What's wrong?Oh, my All right, let's work this out. I'd like that. Don't bother. Let's do this: let's move on now, the committee will once again clarify with the Legal Department, and then we'll go back to this amendment. 3 revisions. Are they insisting on her? No, it's not. 4th Amendment. Teryohin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, this is an example again of the disadvantage of this procedure that we are now going through. The fourth is the fifth amendment of the national MPs, which goes beyond the President’s proposals. In fact, if it is applied, then between the carrier and the customer there should be an intermediary, if there is a legal and regulatory act of the customs office. There's no such thing in the world. This is absolute corruption. So 4 and 5 revisions I'd like to ask for confirmation and not confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u85	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u86	The position of the committee is set out in the text. And it makes it clear that an international transport document is a document of registration, which is a contract between the express carrier and the customer. In our view, this additional information is not mandatory. So the final line in the right column is going to rule out which is the rule of law. What a document. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is voted on by the 4th Amendment to the confirmation, which is considered by the committee. Please vote. [[11:23:50]] For 257 Correction confirmed. I'm also putting the 5th amendment to the vote to confirm it. Please vote. [[11:24:11]] For 257 Correction confirmed. Now the 6th Amendment of the President of Ukraine, does anyone insist on it? No, it's not. It's counted, it's going through. Let's move on. 7th Amendment, Terjehohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, this law of the people's deputies goes beyond the President's proposals again. In fact, what it says here is that it is proposed that the previous decision of the customs authority should be recalled, not in relation to unreliable or incomplete information that has significantly affected the nature, but, think about what is being proposed, but in connection with, quote: ". failure to provide the enterprise with all the information available to it to make this decision, which has significantly affected the nature of this decision." The scope of this "all available information" is nowhere else to be determined, so customs will be arbitrary. By all means, I apologize, based on some arbitrary approach, to determine what information should be provided to the enterprise in which case. It can't be, it's a violation of any regulatory norm and of the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why there can't be 7 revisions. I'm asking for confirmation and I'm asking you not to confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the 7th amendment taken into account by the committee should be confirmed by voting in the session room. I'm putting to the vote this 7th amendment, please vote. [[11:26:05]] For 256 Correction confirmed. Now we have to look at the 8th amendment, it's counted. Is there no objection? None. Let's move on. 9th Amendment. Teryohin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u90	Well, honourable colleagues, look, the Party of Regions, notice, in fact, the proposal is proposed to destroy article 43, logic, as regards the regional certificate of origin. It is proposed to exclude it as a class, this regional certificate of origin. Failure to grant such a certificate will make it very difficult for us to conclude a Free Trade Agreement with the European Union. Because it affects regional names such as champagne, cognac, cheese, and so forth. And that's what we need, let's say, in the Crimea. What the logic of such an amendment is, incomprehensible. The regional certificate of origin should remain in the text of the codex, which remains in 43 articles. Therefore, please place the amendment on confirmation and do not confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u91	This is a technical correction, and it says that these positions are set out in other articles. I'd like to invite my colleague and first deputy to work on the committee. So these are the first suggestions we've heard in a year from my colleague. This is how I feel that today there is a greater mood for delaying this time and for overcoming the initiatives that have been taken on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote amendment number nine, which needs confirmation because it's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[11:28:08]] For 249 Correction supported. Next amendment to the 10th President of Ukraine. Is there no objection? None. 11th Amendment of the President of Ukraine. Please, Teryohin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u93	First of all, Your Honor, I don't need your advice on what to do. You've been working here for 10 years to give me advice on how to do legal work. In fact, it's the right thing to do. This is the president's paper. But, you know, she's responding with a copy of article 397. And so if you do this correspondence, it turns out that the President's proposing this is probably wrong, so that it might be possible to import discs and flash drives without tax and control, including from an intellectual point of view, up to 50 kilograms. That's the kind of stupidity that's written in that direction. Well, at least you'd read conventions under international intellectual law. So I'd like to put this right here for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, the 11th amendment of the President of Ukraine is taken into account by the committee. Please vote. [[11:29:41]] For 261 Correction confirmed. Next amendment to the 12th President of Ukraine. Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, notice, the same story as the 1st and 2nd revisions. It's written that the President's editorial order is taken into account, and it's not counted, and it's rejected by the second law of the 13 people's deputies. The president suggested that the customs declaration should be a voluntary act, if errors were made from this voluntary act, then responsibility would come. What do the national MPs suggest? To restore the President's dedicated position, where the declaration and the determination of the customs value can be carried out by means of the enforcement of the controls carried out by the customs authority. So this is essentially contrary to the key course of the President of Ukraine. That is why I have a request to place the 12th President of Ukraine's right to confirm and accept it as a whole, as President of Ukraine, as a whole, as a whole, and 13 rights as a result of the adoption of the 12th President not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that we are considering the law after work. If we were to consider the law solely with the amendments of the President of Ukraine, you would have absolutely no logic. Now we can only vote on the proposal to confirm it in an edited and supported committee. So I'm voting on Amendment 12 to confirm it as proposed by the committee. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:31:35]] For 233 Correction accepted. The 13 amendments to Ukraine’s national deputies are now in place to confirm the vote. Please vote. Take down the vote, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't know what's going on on the committee, but it shouldn't be in shape or content. There should be no form, for there is the Law of the Rules. And what kind of people's deputies make amendments, we don't know. That's not supposed to be the case, because the President is right in this case. You know, I don't really like a president who's been bullying the country for two years. But he still has experts. The experts who saw it were correct. And he suggested a clear revision of this point. Declare the customs value determined or adjusted by them on their own as a result of consultations with the customs authority. This is the end of the quote as defined by the President. Now, by supporting this, and writing it as an editorial, 2 amendments to this proposal -- 13th is already saying that it is being corrected by the results of the control of the customs authority. That's what the President is up against. You don't have to support this amendment. I'm talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u98	I'm voting on Amendment 13 to confirm it. Please vote. [[11:33:18]] For 260 Correction confirmed. Amendment 14 of the President of Ukraine. As to this amendment, is there a note? I can't see. The 15th amendment of the head of the Vitaliy Hometicnik Committee, noted by her. Please, Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u99	Well, look again, well, first of all, this revision goes beyond the President's proposals. In other words, at least they'd learn to understand the machine. If there are, by the way, further along the lines of the code, there are components of the customs declaration, throughout the code. This is where the word "congregation" changes to "data." Well, you have to ask the school where the data is arithmetic and mathematics, and the ingredients are all that's contained in the customs declaration. Why even write such nonsense?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u100	An amendment to the 15th Committee for approval shall be put to the vote. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u101	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u102	[[11:34:37]] For 253 Correction supported. 16 revisions. The President. Is there no objection? I can't see. Amendment 17. President of Ukraine. Is there no objection? 18th Amendment. Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u103	Another example. When the people's deputies actually distorted the President's proposal, that is, they took everything the other way around. The president proposed a new text of article 55 on the adjustment of customs value, and he was very good at proposing that corruption on the part of the customs authorities be limited. What happens next? People’s deputies are actually reproducing that corrupt article that was adopted in the law in the President’s time. Again, the logic here? That is why I urge the President to vote as the subject of the legislative initiative. Once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the president, and not what the committee had invented there, was not a subject. And do not vote on the National Deputies 19.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, once again, I want to confirm that the president's amendment is taken into account, but it's edited in the committee. But if there is a principle of such a position, if you personally take responsibility for the final text, I do not mind. But I do propose, and I think the committee has done a very professional job with this text. So I'd like to vote on the President's proposal in that paper that's on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I would ask you once again, and I would remind you that we have a post-processing procedure until we are in the principal position. We're going in second reading mode. We're not looking at the law in a new edition with the President's proposals, but after the work. That's why I'm putting amendment 18 to the committee's vote. Please vote. [[11:37:09]] For 233 Counted. Now it's Amendment 19. No, Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u106	We voted on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, that's right. If there is an insistence, we should vote it; if not, it remains the case. Please, Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, don't abuse yourself. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you said literally, look at the transcript, and let's vote on the president's proposal for the committee is 19 amendments. And I suggested voting on the President's proposal in the President's paper is 18 amendments. I mean, if you voted in the 19th, I insist on going back to the 18th, and I want everyone to be friendly about supporting the great President of all of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, we have voted on the 18th amendment, and I am now voting on the 19th amendment, which is what I am doing. Please vote. 19 Amendments. [[11:38:38]] For 252 Decision taken. The amendment should now be 20. Amendment 20. Any warning? Sergei Teryohin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u110	Look what our national deputies have offered. They're proposing to do part 7 of article 69. It's about imposing fines and other sanctions by customs, using, look at what terms: "complex case", "untrustworthy information", "all available information", "essential influence." There you go. The wording of the Customs Code is not defined anywhere else. So that's all I've told you, can take in a customs officer to decide which sanctions to apply to a violator of customs rules. How can I write like that?Oh, my God! That's why. I understand that the customs took an active part in the work of this document, but not so much! So I suggest you put the 20th amendment on confirmation and not confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, a very important observation by Sergey Teryochin. Please take this into account. At the same time, I'm putting an amendment to the 20th vote to confirm it. Please vote. [[11:40:24]] For 231 [[I told you he was right! I can't vote!]] Correction. I'm sorry, amendment 20, vote 231 deputies, amendment accepted. Amendment of the 21st President of Ukraine. No objections? I can't see. 22nd. There's no objection, is there? Now. We're looking for an amendment to the 30th. 159th. 30th Amendment. Sergei Teryohin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u112	So again, and that shows the depth, let's say, of the legal knowledge of the developers of this paper. Chapter VI is proposed to complete the name of commercial vehicles. Well, look what happened at the end of history, and then I'll essentially tell you. This will be the case, the title of the chapter becomes meaningless: Customs formalities when moving commercial means of transport across the customs border by different modes of transport. What's this, a tow truck? Or at the gredier? Well, at least you're looking at what you wrote. Moreover, if you throw out, introduce only a commercial assignment, a respected reporter, then all the means of transportation of a personal assignment, a noncommercial assignment, fall out of the first three articles of this chapter. And it is not clear how to administer them in the future. So this is an allogeneic one, read the title of this chapter again, if any.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u113	In fact, the name and the names of all the chapters we've actually made are the same as the European Customs Code. So both the sequence of sections and the names of these sections, depending on the translation. And this codex is as close as possible to the European Updated Customs Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the 30th amendment, which is considered by the committee to confirm it. Please vote. [[11:43:11]] For 253 Correction accepted. Similarly, we need to confirm Amendment 31. Please note, I'm putting to the vote 31 amendments. Please vote. [[11:43:36]] For 257 Correction counted. Amendment 32. Are you insisting on her? Teryohin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, look how we're having a lively discussion on the subject of the law. Well, first of all, again, it's not clear what his status is. If the novels are of a legislative nature that the national MPs have made, well, it makes sense to have two readings. Well, to an extreme extent, you limit the sovereign right of other national deputies or Kabmin or the President to grant rights. Take. Well, it's not on your head, Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's why I'm here. Look, Your Honor, once again, this is kind of a stupid push on the button, there's no discussion, there's nothing to argue with. So, you know, I have my voice. It's already sat down, see? More expensive than your buttons. It will be as it was with the Tax Code: you will accept this Customs Code, and then people will stand under Parliament and spin their fingers in the temple. Come on, most of you, vote, I'm not giving you any more rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, I remind you again. Wait a minute! Once again, the law is being reviewed in the second reading. I'll remind you again. And I'd like to ask you not to press charges all the time. Second, the head of the committee argued the term "commercial transport." Then it's coming. and the Supreme Council has supported this amendment, and everything continues to fit in. So, obviously, there's no more need for argument if the Supreme Council ever made a decision. Thus, Amendment 32 and the following amendments. Don't insist? Let's move on then. 34th, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u117	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you asked questions on the Conciliation Council yesterday, and why did the President return 11 bills to the Supreme Council immediately? Well, it's so cool: the government is working, most of them are working, Chechtev is raising his hand correctly, and 11 vetoes in a row. I assure you that this law will also be vetoed. Why? Because we're making it worse for the law we passed the last time. We're making it worse, I say. Terhochin’s repairs were absolutely correct. I understand he's just tired of proving it. And now this 34th amendment, it's proposing to replace the word, the term "that submission to the customs authority" should be replaced by the words "that quarterly submission to the customs authority." So again, we're making this difficult for the people who do these transports, the intersections, and so on. And they're going to thank us again in their paws for that. I'm not suggesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, there are 34 amendments to the vote to confirm it. Please vote. [[11:47:11]] For 257 Confirmed amendment. The following amendments to the 39th Presidential are included. 40 revisions. No one's insisting on her? No, I can't see. Dear colleagues, I'd like to go to the second book now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u119	Vladimir Mikhailovich, one stenogram trailer. 112 amendment, here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u120	We haven't reached 112 yet. Vitaly Yuriovich, we'll get to 112. The 48th Amendment of the People’s Deputies. It's counted. Is there a warning to her? Dear colleagues, what amendments are then warned about? None. Now it's 112. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u121	112th. I'm begging you in the end. This is article 183, paragraph 1, on page 421. Add words to the right column, it's technically fallen out of where "or those that contain false data."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u122	Let's vote on this amendment, your honorary colleagues, taking into account the refinement that has technically fallen out and about which the committee head has just spoken. This is 112 amendments to the committee's clarification, and I ask you to vote, more specifically by complementing the committee and clarifying it. Please vote. [[11:49:41]] For 254 So, Vitaly Yuriovich, what other amendments need attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u123	That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u124	Now we have to go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u125	Let's get to the beginning, before 1 president's amendment, let's go back to where we started.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u126	Yes, please, the microphone of the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u127	Yes, I ask you once again to consider the President's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u128	We counted it -- 248 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u129	And the 2nd is negative.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u130	So we need to get our respectable colleagues back, and I ask your attention, back to the 2nd Amendment. After your positive decision, we can now consider the committee’s proposal. I'm voting on the proposal to return to the 2nd amendment. Please vote. [[11:50:45.]] For 258. Decision taken. Please, Vitalia Juryovich, argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u131	Yeah, I'm asking for the 2nd amendment, it says that part of the 6th of article 2 is to exclude and place on confirmation and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u132	And don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u133	And don't vote. So there's no two-way explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u134	I'll put the 2nd amendment on confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:51:28]] For-0 Yes, dear fellows, may I have your attention? There is a vote on the proposal by the committee for the adoption of the Customs Code of Ukraine as a whole after the revision. [[Registration number 8130-d]] Please vote. [[11:52:06]] For 264 The law has been adopted. The factions, please. Region Party – 185, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 6, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 9. Now. Dear colleagues, we need to adopt, more specifically, after the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Customs Code with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the amended law. [[Registration number 8130/d]] Vitaly Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u135	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we have just adopted a new edition of the Customs Code, and all amendments to other legislative acts have been laid down in a separate law called the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts in connection with the Adoption of the Customs Code of Ukraine. This law has received nine proposals from the President. They're all accounted for. So you can simply vote as a whole as a law that is given and given out in a table.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u136	No warning? That's why I'm voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Customs Code. [[Registration number 8130/d]] So the law is being enacted. Please vote. [[11:54:00]] For 264 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is now proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Lands, on bringing Ukraine into line with the Nadra Code. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in response to the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to this law, sent him for further work. The committee proposes to reject the law. Is there a need to report? Please, Sergey Tereshuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on July 5, 2011 for the amendment to the Committee of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Lands, in accordance with the Ukrainian Code of Nadra. His work was followed by remarks by the President of Ukraine. And according to the President of Ukraine's proposals, this law must, in our view, be rejected. Since the loss of much of peatland's status of particularly valuable land, as well as the unwarranted extension of the aid for compensation for agricultural and forestry costs, according to the President of Ukraine, could lead to a deterioration of the environmental situation in the country, a balance of budgets, a failure by the State to implement constitutional guarantees in the relevant areas. In view of the above, the committee proposes to support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to reject. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, no objection to putting a committee proposal to the vote? I would like to vote on the proposal of the Committee on the Rejection of the Ukrainian Law on the Amendment to the Ukrainian Code of Lands, in accordance with the Ukrainian Code of Nadra, in accordance with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8238]] Please vote. [[11:56:39]] For 253 Decision taken. The law is rejected. Dear colleagues, yes, we'll take a break now when you agree to such an offer. Now we have to look at the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on improving the administration of public property objects, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[of 11.01.2012]] [[Registration number 9415]] Before this bill, the president of Ukraine made 12 comments. The committee considered them carefully, intently, and thoroughly, took them all into account and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a whole, taking into account the President's proposals. So if you don't mind, I'd put this motion to a vote, and there would be a break after that. Well, yeah, so do I. Well, one minute. But I propose that we vote on every President's proposal so that there is no report and co-report if there is no objection. Is there no objection? I meant it, Yuri Bogdanovich. That's why I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 1st President, which is counted. Please vote. [[11:58:08]] For 239. Correction counted. I'll bet on a vote of two for the President's amendment, which is counted. Please vote. [[11:58:28]] For 239. Decision taken. 3 amendments by the President of Ukraine are put to the vote. Please vote. The committee counted it. [[11:58:47]] For 239. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote of the President's 4th amendment, the committee counted it. Please vote. [[11:59:07]] For 241 Decision taken. I'm betting on the 5th amendment of the President of Ukraine, which is counted by the committee. Please vote. [[11:59:28]] For 236 It's a readjustment. I'm betting on a vote of 6 amendments to the President's proposals, which the committee supported. Please vote. [[11:59:52]] For 236 Copy that. I'm betting on the 7th amendment, and the committee supports it. Please vote. [[12:00:14]] For 235 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote of the President's 8th amendment, which the committee proposes to take into account. Please vote. [[12:00:36]] For 240 Correction accepted. The 9th amendment is put to the vote, and the committee has taken it into account. Please vote. [[12:00:59]] For 240 Correction accepted. The President's 10th amendment is put to the vote, and the committee supports it. Please vote. [[12:01:21]] For 242 Correction accepted. 11 amendments shall be put to the vote. The committee supports it. [[12:01:41]] For 243 Decision taken. And the vote is on the 12th amendment of the President of Ukraine. The committee also counted it. Please vote. [[12:02:02]] For 236 Decision taken. So, dear colleagues, we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt a law in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. This is about the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving Governance of State Property. [[Registration number 9415]] Please vote. [[12:02:43]] For 238. The law was passed taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 34 minutes, or 30 minutes. After the break, we'll start our work. continue our work under the Emergency Relief System Act at 112.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u139	Yes, my fellow citizens, I invite you to the session room so that we can continue our work. Please make an appropriate announcement. Dear National MPs, the draft Law on the Emergency Relief System for Population 112 is under review. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga. Please. Who? Ah, the first deputy chairman of the committee, Mikola Haritonovich Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u140	Honourable National Deputies, on September 22, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted as the basis of the draft Ukrainian Emergency Relief System Bill 112. The adoption of the draft law will allow us to determine the legal, organizational and economic principles of the functioning of the 112 system, the authorization of executive authorities and local self-government, operational control services, emergency support units for the population, the 112 hardware centres and ensure that a set of practical measures is implemented to create and implement the 112 system. The committee received 30 suggestions from Ukrainian national deputies. The committee prepared two comparative tables for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Emergency Assistance System Act at the only telephone number 112, on which the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was provided with substantial observations and suggestions. But I would like to emphasize that taking into account the proposed comments and proposals by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council and the people's deputies of Ukraine who have submitted can change the concept and purpose of the bill, which was proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the outcome of the first reading and the basis. On the basis of the draft bill adopted by the Supreme Council following the first reading, the committee decided at its meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Emergency Relief System for a single telephone number 112, as a whole, as a law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine following the first reading, taking into account editorial rights. [[Registry number 9074, since 26.08.2011]] Taking into account the importance of the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on February 22, 2012, have further considered the bill at their meeting and have confirmed the earlier decision on the adoption of the bill as a whole as a law in an editorial form adopted by the Supreme Council as a result of the first reading, taking into account editorial rights. Please support the committee's decision and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u141	So that means we shouldn't be looking at amendments at all? Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u142	No, well, someone might be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u143	No, it's not. If we're going to make amends. If the amendment is taken into account, no one insists on voting, it remains, if required, we put it to the vote for confirmation. We'll go through every amendment, then we'll make a decision. You know, as I understand it, on behalf of the committee, you've offered to accept the results of your first reading with a little bit of editorial detail and not to consider the amendments. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u144	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if we are, most of the amendments change the concept, the very idea of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u145	So we're going after the repairs? And you're proposing to support the committee's position, right? Thank you. Dear colleagues, 1 amendment is included. The 2nd amendment is rejected. The author insists on her? No, it's not. 3 Amendments, The Author Urges? No, it's not. 5th, Carmazin. Microphone, please. He insists, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! To this bill, the legal office, a bill of small size, sent its comments on pages 11 of the bill. Think about it, please. I mean, it's not the concept that needs to be changed, it's the approach to reviewing the bill. My corrections are all to the only deviation. This is the only bill in which all the amendments are rejected. And even if most of them do, I'm going to contact the President about his promises. In Amendment 5, I'm asking the question of defining what the term "112" is. And I'm writing, "Centre 112" is another emergency relief center for the population with a single free telephone number called, emergency services "112", made up of the territorial bodies of a special authorized central executive body on civil protection issues and beyond." And it's still in the text. This is entirely true because it is written and implemented in the European Union in accordance with the proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u147	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u148	The committee rejected the amendment of the People’s Deputy Carmazin. If I may have two words. That the definitions referred to in Article 1 are balanced, and article 1a does not need to be clarified as being the centres of 112 and article 3 of this bill defines what is the system of 112.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u149	Amendment 5 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. The committee rejected the amendment. Please identify yourself. [[12:40:24]] For -8 Correction not supported. 6 Amendments, Victor Mironenko, Mironenko insists on it? No, it's not. Seven o'clock, no. Eight o'clock, no. Carmazine, 9th, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I am addressing those who have wanted to join the European Union, for whom the European Commission's proposals No 91/30096/EU since 1991 are not an empty sound. I'm talking to everyone who hasn't figured out what a tiny surrogate we have to offer. So I will continue to amend, even though the opposition cannot wake up, and the coalition is in complete despair, waiting for the signal to go away. I suggest in article 3, the second part of the paper is: "112" consists of Centers 112, Operations Services, Emergency Population Assistance Units, which use telecommunication networks, software, technology and other means to provide emergency assistance to the population." I mean, from the editor's proposal, I ask you to delete the words "made up of territorial organs."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u151	The 9th Amendment of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[12:42:05]] For 20 Correction not supported. 11 The Reformation of Yuri Carmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u152	Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you'll allow me, Yuri Karmazin, I'll merge 11th and 12th with you to waste your time, save you some time to consider other issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u154	In article 5, I propose to make the following changes. The title of the article is in a different edition, namely, to write, "State Administration Authorities for the Settlement and Authorisation of the 112 System." And part of the first sentence is to put it in the following line: "112 regulation authorizations are given by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a specially authorized central executive authority on civil protection issues, other executive authorities and local self-government authorities." That's what I'm doing to help with technical and legal improvements to this bill. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u155	11 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[12:43:31]] For-21 Correction not supported. The 12th Amendment of Yuri Karmazin is now put to the vote. [[12:43:49]] For -14 No correction supported. The Moroccan National MP insists on his amendments? No, I can't see. Then Yuri Carmazin made the 20th amendment. Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In amendment 20, I propose in article 8 that the first part of the text reads: "The financing of the "112" material and technical security measures is made from the State budget of Ukraine, local budgets and other sources in accordance with the provisions of Ukrainian civil protection legislation." This change is also made with the aim of technical and legal improvements to the bill and the settlement of material and technical security issues for the 112 service. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the 20th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin is now under way. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:44:59]] For -14 Correction not supported. Now it's Yuri Carmazin's amendment. 21st on law enforcement. [[Tolstenko, Karmazin]] Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u158	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! By all laws to one we accept this formula, by all means. I don't know why this committee doesn't want to see us all passing laws. We all write that this law takes effect from the day of its publication. Because if it's on the day of publication, it's clear that it's already the formula that's not being used. Why is this amendment not included? Just because Carmazin's bringing it in? I want to understand. Anyway, I'm addressing you, Mr. Michael Chechetov, we wrote in hundreds of laws exactly the formula that I just proposed, which I proposed many years ago, and the Supreme Council agreed. Now there's an exception to that. I'm asking you to support my amendment, as you don't like it. And I think it's going to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u159	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u160	The committee would not object to the court’s determination, nor would the committee object to such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, there's a motion for a vote. on the amendment of the 21st Jury of Carmazin, which was rejected by the committee. Please be sure. [[12:47:00]] For 274 Offer supported. So this law, if approved, will take effect from the day following its publication. Since the 21st amendment is supported, yes, that's it. Please, Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u163	Now what? Thank you. Now we must put to the vote the approval of the draft law as a law. At the same time, I remind you, Your Honor, that, right now, one minute that the Chief Legal Authority has made a number of observations to this law. Valery Ananiyovich, please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you, in part, that in 2009, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, using 2 million 200 000 bracelets, prepared appropriate project and cost-effective documentation for the implementation of the 112 system. Everyone has to understand what 112 is. The emergency medical system, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the gas system, and so forth. Everything is destroyed, replaced by one system 112. We're being offered today, like the 911 system of the United States. It works as a common commutator. It's a system of the 19th century, and we're being pushed into it by 650 million dollars. Mikolo Haritonovich, Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, has developed a national system. Why you didn’t even like to read the suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u165	Microphone, please. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u166	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine therefore strongly insists not to vote in favour of the bill. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u167	Thank you. The offer is understood. Please take the seat of the committee. However, the letter was sent to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! The committee worked very hard on this bill, the amendments. Including, as I pointed out in my presentation, two comparative tables were prepared for second reading. But from what I can tell you, it was very difficult because the pressure was on all sides. But we based the concept of the law, the very ideology, the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why I'm asking you to put it to a vote as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will put the committee's proposal to the vote. I would like to draw your attention to the point made by the Chief Legal Authority. And I'm reminding you that this is a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the government is obviously responsible. So I'm voting on a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the Act on the Emergency Relief System for a single telephone number 112. [[Registration number 9074]] Please vote. [[12:50:45.]] For 245 The law is passed, thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to consider a few drafts in the re-reading mode. I am announcing a draft Act on the peculiarities of the privatization of coal-fired enterprises. [[Registration number 9412]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on the committee's proposal. Please vote. [[12:51:23]] For 216 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Vladimir Makuha. The correspondent is the head of the Economic Policy Committee's subcommittee, Alexander Bondar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u170	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Law on the Characteristics of Privatization of Coal Enterprises is designed to develop coal industry as one of the strategic sectors of Ukraine's economy through investment participation and additional funding for technological restocking, modernization and proper financing of carbon-carbon enterprises, as well as with a view to reducing the burden on the state budget. The bill sets out the characteristics of the privatization of carbon-carbon enterprises, the first being the preservation of the conditions for electricity consumption at the level of the first generation of voltage for carbon-carbon enterprises for which the decision to privatise is made. For a period of up to 3 years from the completion of the privatization of the moratorium on the enforcement of property by privatizing objects by stopping the execution and moratorium on the bankruptcy of industrial enterprises. The effect of this situation extends only to debts created at the time of completion of privatization. The third important element of this feature is the conversion to an investor-investor object to privatize existing special permits for the use of the nadrama without auctioning. The privatisation of objects is envisaged by auctioning, selling at an investment competition, and other means envisaged by valid legislation. It's about stock market sales and ransom. The draft law also sets out social guarantees for privatised workers and privatised enterprises as provided for in the sectoral agreement. In particular, provision is made for the free provision of coal to workers and pensioners in accordance with legislation, the provision of health and sanitation services for mining workers, and the provision of maintenance of socio-economic facilities. We ask for support in the adoption of the proposed bill, which will allow regulation at the legislative level of the nature of the privatization of industrial enterprises, will help improve the economic situation in these enterprises and create a competitive environment, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u171	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u173	Thank you, sit down, please. Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, head of the Committee on Economic Policy Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u174	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Economic Policy Committee has considered a bill submitted by the government on the specificities of the privatization of coal-based enterprises and, despite the very important observations made at the committee meeting and the observation of scientific and expert management, proposes that the Supreme Council adopt this bill on the basis of the second reading of these observations. I personally made the following comments to the bill. First. After the adoption of the State Privatization Programme and the new laws, I believe that such bills make no sense at all, since most of the provisions are already provided in the State Privatisation Programme. For example, there is a system called Dutch auctions that can be applied to coal companies where the price can be reduced to one bracelet. Various evaluation mechanisms for these objects, compared with the general privatization system, can only lead to confusion of the evaluation mechanism, and, above all, they cannot be accounted for in accounting. For example, such money that the cost of industrial fossil stocks is not included in the assessment of objects, I have no idea how this can be done through accounting. Second, the cost of a privatization object includes the residual cost of special permits, but it is passed on free to an investor. Why apply such benefits if all objects are bought at a fixed price per bracelet. So there are very important points that the committee will try to take into account in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u175	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u176	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In the context of and rapid travel, oil prices, gas prices, in the face of a worsening security situation at nuclear stations in the world, the issue of the country's energy security is rapidly increasing, and it is becoming the most relevant. And if we are to address the country's energy security in a systematic and rigorous manner, we must understand that today an energy security component of the country is the effective work of the coal industry. And in this situation, as coal mining is being carried out in enough depths, that the efficiency of the coal industry is linked to the involvement of serious financial resources, the issue is where to take these resources. and whether the State can contribute the necessary money to bring the coal industry to a level that will indeed make a significant contribution to the strengthening of the country's energy security. If we look at this angle and focus only on the State budget, we can clearly say that the problem is not solved today or tomorrow. I don't know how it's going to be tomorrow, given that the day after tomorrow is a few decades away. And the question needs to be addressed today. Therefore, it is precisely the task of attracting private investment and private investment to increase the efficiency of the coal industry and, in general, to strengthen the country's energy security. On this basis, I ask for the support of the Government's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u177	Thank you. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u178	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The MP's Reforms for the Future clearly appreciates this bill because it has both advantages and disadvantages. Well, it's about benefits. Obviously, I support the previous speaker, Mr. Chechchev, that in the context of creating the necessary energy security system for Ukraine, a sector such as the coal industry needs to invest widely in this area. Today, unfortunately, this investment is not going to be pushed forward, and there is no money. The second question. We see fairly positive article 14 on terms of contract and sale with the envisaged privatisation plan, which relates to the social package and is accepted in the complex, i.e. not only privatization or sale through an auction or an investment competition, but also the social part is the wages, maintenance of socio-economic objects and the safety of mining. Yet three basic sentences that we cannot agree with. First. Article 8 is about the auction procedure. It is not clear why the so - called Dutch auction procedure is being applied. Why can you fall by 50 percent if you don't have any offers, then by 30, and then by investment competition, you get these businesses for one bracelet? I think the second question needs to be worked out. Next. Article 12 is the value of an object of privatization. That's what we talked about today. Well, how can you not count the stocks of beneficial fossils that are an integral part of the particular layer that is being extracted in this direction? And the third is the uncertainty of the basic criteria of government control. I mean, in fact, the state is going somewhere. We will only support this bill if we consider the second reading of the next amendment, and I would like to take a note of it. If the state control of privatized enterprises finds cases of default that would be foreseen by the privatisation plan or the terms of the auction competition, such objects must return in a mandatory manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u179	Complete the point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u180	.that such objects must be returned to public property in accordance with the procedure laid down by this law. We will support this bill in the first reading only under such conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u181	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko is transferring the right to speak to Wolinz College, the faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko – Fatherland”. Then there's Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, indeed, the coal industry today is in such a position that investments in the industry are needed, but I am authoritatively telling you that this bill will be adopted by the stillborn. And why pay money on competitive terms for privatizing coal companies at a time when there is already the Act on concessions or leases for coal enterprises? Better mines than other times, under other laws, under other conditions have already been privatized, better mines have been leased or leased in the previous period. And so there's a lot of improper things written here. For example, Article 10 (2) provides that a person who privatizes mines is not entitled to release an employee for six months. What is six months? One could have done it. And what, six months from now, where two thousand miners are working, is there going to be one thousand, as is happening in private hands? Are we going to lose 100,000 coal workers in a short period of time? And these are mining cities. You can't take things like that! It is then envisaged that social guarantees will be taken into account when collective agreements are concluded. Dear ones, the Party of Regions is giving us another gift: the new Labour Code will soon be adopted, there is no obligation to conclude collective agreements, there is no responsibility for failure to implement collective agreements. So what are we offered? But we need to look ahead to what laws will be and what will be the consequences. Then the company shuts down. It is anticipated that the special body of the Privatization Fund will agree to terminate the business. Ladies and gentlemen, the mine can also be closed in one way, sunk it, provoked by a strike, without paying people their wages, and falling on others. And then it's just as convenient to hand over metal-powered equipment to scrap metal, turn over the color metal, get big profits out of it, and throw the [bleep] mine out. So here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u183	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u184	Thus, there are no benefits, no guarantees, and so forth. It's just going to be handing out the mines that will then be closed, and there's not going to be any mechanism for the state's energy security. Such a law cannot be enacted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u185	Thank you. Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! It is clear that the Party of the Regions has embarked on the third phase of the destruction of the coal industry. Which of the speakers here was the last time on Donbass? Who's seen those drained mines, the coal mines, and who's seen how tens of them are born these days? Now they're called "little mines." To date, 90 per cent of 155 dead miners have been killed in private mines. It says there's no security equipment, no money, no mines, no pits are destroyed. Therefore, respectable comrades, distinguished gentlemen from the Party of the Regions! Please come to the polls and tell them you've finally destroyed them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u187	Please, it's all yours, isn't it? All of it. The distinguished national deputies, the other factions who had the right to speak will act? No, it's not. Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. I would like to remind you that this is a rereading of the first reading. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the observations that have been made in the conclusion of the scientific and expert management. The MP's group "Reforms for the Future" expressed its position. I think the committee, if the Supreme Council supports it in the first reading, in preparing for the second reading, will consider this proposal on its consideration. And now I am voting on the committee's decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Act on the peculiarities of the privatization of coal companies. [[Registration number 9412]] Please vote. [[13:05:56]] For 241 Decision taken. Please use fractions: Region Party – 189, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 8, communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 12, non-factional – 12. A draft Law on the National Service for the Suppression of Corruption is being announced for consideration. The committee suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure, especially that it is a re-reading of the first reading. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[13:06:44]] For 206 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the fight against organized crime and corruption by Rybek Alexander Grigorovich. Alexander Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u188	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It is proposed to consider a draft Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. [[Registration number 5031]] Today, the issue of the creation of a centrally specialized anticorruption body in Ukraine deserves special attention. The importance of the effective specialization of law enforcement authorities in combating corruption and the standards for the functioning of such specialized institutions is provided for in article 36 of the UN Convention against Corruption and article 20 of the Council of Europe Criminal Convention on Combating Corruption and Recommendations in Ukraine by international organisations. [[This is the Istanbul Plan of Action of the ODS and GRECO]] In line with recommendations 2.9 of the report on Ukraine's second round of monitoring under the Istanbul Plan of Action against Corruption, Ukraine should ensure, without further delay, effective anti-corruption specialization in the law enforcement system through the creation of an autonomous anti-corruption investigation body, structurally independent of existing law enforcement agencies and security agencies, whose work will focus on combating high-level corruption and which will be entrusted with appropriate guarantees of independence, authority and resources in accordance with international standards and advanced international experience. The need to create a national anti-corruption body with an appropriate range of powers, with practical activities to prevent and combat corruption of senior officials of the State, is also noted in paragraph 1.7 in the annual message of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, the bill received a number of comments and suggestions from law enforcement agencies. In particular, with regard to the structure of the scope and material security required for further consultations with special subjects in the fight against corruption and the creation of a single position on the issue. In its conclusion, the main scientific and expert office also made comments to the bill and recommended it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u189	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u190	For the results of the first reading, go back to work. The committee decided to turn to the Supreme Council for acceptance to refer it to the committee and prepare for the rereading of the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u191	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues who are planning to make a statement on this subject, please sign in. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ruslan Knyazevich will be speaking. The next word will be Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u192	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Today, we are back to a discussion that lasted several weeks here during the review and adoption of the Law on the Principles of Combating Corruption in Ukraine. You remember that this question that is being discussed today was one of the key issues at the time. And we probably had to solve it once and for all, not try to do everything in some way to avoid making decisions that were long overdue. This is about whether we want it or not, and the global public of the GRECO Group, the Council of Europe will not give Ukraine a drop on this issue and will always require a special anti-corruption body to be created in Ukraine. And we must have matured to what it should be. Until it is gone, any legislative changes aimed at the relevant requirements of international conventions will not be fully implemented. Because we need to understand and understand very well that as long as we have those law enforcement officers who are in society in social, let's say, moods, sociological surveys are or are not the biggest corrupters, there will be no real fight in Ukraine. As far as I'm concerned, the bill needs to be adopted. We need to take the foundation and work. Because there's only one discussion here: whether we need mechanically those units that are already authorized to fight corruption to remove from the power structures and transfer to the newly created body, or maybe we should go the way that many countries in Eastern Europe have gone. Including the former Union and the Baltic countries, the countries of Georgia, where an entirely new body has been formed, bringing in new unspotted, fresh people, and usually young people under the age of 30 with the desire to really inculcate themselves and try to build an honest officer’s career. But this is a matter for discussion. We have yet to conceptually identify ourselves in favor of the fact that Ukraine will have exactly that kind of body. Because as long as it is, any talk of fighting corruption is fiction, not real Ukrainian, let's say, the present and the future of the country. For without a fight against corruption the real one, where they will be clearly defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u193	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u194	..we will fall behind in all world ratings and every time we look for Sirc's eyes in front of our Western partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u195	Thank you. Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland". John Verni Dubov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u196	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. If you ask each of us today, "Do we have to fight corruption in Ukraine?"of course, all normal people will say that you don't just have to, and this question has gone so far that it's hard to come up with what methods, what ways to fight. Can such an authority remove this question? I don't think so. Why? Take a look at today’s timetable for the work of the Supreme Council. The Customs Code has just been adopted here. But it's a totally corrupt document. There are lengthy decisions that have been programmed by those who want to turn our customs into a complete grid today, where they can drag any goods in any form. The president looks like he's promising something. The faction that fully obeys the President here nullifies his veto in fact by its decisions. What about the recent decisions of the Constitutional Court, which effectively blocked all information about the wealth of senior officials of the State?Oh, my God! What about the decisions made today regarding the Attorney General's Office and the so-called "cushrooms"?Oh, my God! You'll excuse me, the scandal we have today in the Supreme Council about bribery among deputies, but in a European country, any country would call for the dissolution of the entire parliament. No, we're fine, the prosecutor says it's not his problem, it's something like that, an internal political struggle. Dear friends! As long as we have a Parliament as it is today, until then, whether you create any organs or not, it will be the organs for the development of corruption in the state. So I think we're going to create another organ, it's going to be used for repression against opposition. As is now used by the police, the Ukrainian Security Service and other administrative authorities in the state -- just to put in the so-called, well, present-day opponents, so-called, in the view of today's authorities, people who have broken some laws. Look what's happening today! For the celebration of the day of the militia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u197	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u198	For the celebration of the day of the militia, you can be set up or anything else, for some political decision. And the fact that the state has been captured and captured today is something that can be done. Therefore, we believe that such an organ may be needed by the State only if it is completely different from the legislative body that will stand on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u199	Thank you, thank you, Vladimir Dmitriovich. Ivan Vernidubov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u200	I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u201	Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! How much we work in Parliament, how much we listen to myths about some new people, about some superorgan that can fight corruption. Never before has the problem of fighting crime in general or fighting corruption been solved or resolved by the creation of any additional or special bodies. The legal system in Ukraine, it exists, it's harmonious, it's functional. There's a system of investigative agencies, there's a system of bodies that do operational and search activities, there's a system of prosecutorial supervision. All these bodies act in accordance with legislation. And so I would like to pay attention and draw attention, more faithfully, to all the national MPs to that conclusion of scientific and expert management, which is perfectly right, completely professional. The next time he tells us that the bill that he passed today as a new one, well, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't, he can't. no service can function as it's written. And that's why I urge all the MPs today to vote against the adoption of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u203	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. The committee suggests that the preparation committee be re-readed for the first time. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. In view of the circumstances, honourable national MPs, who had already been rereading the first reading, I will therefore put the first proposal for acceptance on the basis of the Rules for Voting. In the event that this proposal is not supported, the second proposal is to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further work. No objections? So I'm voting on the first proposal for adoption based on the draft National Anti-Corruption Service Act. [[Registration number 5031]] Please make a decision. [[13:17:40]] For-43 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please be sure. [[13:18:05]] For-93 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on social protection of military personnel, the payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of their death, disability or partial loss of employment without disability is under consideration. [[death]] [[Registration number 7277]] The committee suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure, since this is a re-reading of the first reading. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[13:18:51]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Sergey Greenewecki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u204	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! A bill submitted to Parliament has been drafted into the committee under the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of May 20, 2011. The point is, unfortunately, that there are unwarranted payments made at the expense of the State Budget released from service to persons with disabilities after their release. Practice shows that three months after the military release, the number of disabled military personnel is increasing by 7.5 times compared to the number of disabled military personnel in service. This may indicate either the quality of medical services in the designated military and law enforcement bodies of a special purpose, or the existence of corruption among members of expert medical commissions in military and medical institutions. The bill’s legislative provisions regulate the payment of lump sums in the event of the death, death of military personnel, disability or partial loss of work without disability, regulate the legal relationship they have in the exercise of their rights to receive a guaranteed public payment of one-time financial assistance in the event of their health, as well as the rights of others to pay for such assistance in the event of death, the death of military personnel. The bill also eliminates social injustices in the amount of such assistance between persons who have become disabled during military service while performing their duties and persons who have acquired the same disability during military service but are not bound by military service duties. The draft law is consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine and does not conflict with the international treaties of Ukraine. The draft law takes into account the practice of paying compensation to members of the military in case of termination.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u205	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u206	The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to adopt the bill as a basis. The committee adopted the bill unanimously. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u207	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. Prepare the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u208	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In order to ensure that the State's concern for the social standard of living of people is real, the decision to increase social payments must be based on a real foundation, on a real basis, on economic growth. And when we are asked, and why did we delay with the adoption of the social package, why did we not immediately start the first steps since 2010 from taking radical measures to raise social standards, to the fact that there was no basis. Unfortunately, our credibility has failed us! The thing is, when we went to power, statistics were kept secret, and the past government announced to the whole world that the family's private is full, and we're trusting (and we're trusting people!They believed this, and our decisions, which were planned in the tenth year, were in the air because when they came to power and looked at the execution of the State, it was not empty, but at the bottom were bills to be paid. It was necessary to remove the country from the peak when the economy fell by 15 per cent, most of them in the world. And when the economy was withdrawn from the path of sustainable growth, 4.5 per cent of the economy that year made a profit, a real financial resource emerged, which could be set aside for a real rise in social standards. The main mass was sounded by the President and he sounded it at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. All the mechanisms of the State will be included, and we will do what the President has said. But today's bill, it goes in this direction, in this context, where the social level is expected to rise, the social protection of the military. I therefore propose to vote in favour of this law and to support the President's course to improve the social standards of people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u209	Chaplain, please. Get Bondarenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u210	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Zadir Gennady Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u211	Asshole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u212	Bullying Gennady, Santa. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" thinks the bill is very and very relevant. But establishing a clear order for determining the amount of disposable cash assistance in the event of death, the death of a military officer, disability, or partial disability. installation. disability or partial cost*** efficiency depending on the consequences and the moment when this event occurs, as well as the salaries and allowances, makes this process transparent and eliminates the equation that unfortunately exists now. At the same time, the project envisions time limits for the appointment of such one - time assistance in the event of a tragic incident with a military officer within a year of his release from military service and with a military - bound or reservist within three months of the end of the congregations. Such terms are unwarranted, for some diseases or consequences may unfortunately appear a little later. Moreover, existing legislation does not provide for the time limits mentioned above, and the proposal thus contradicts article 22 of the Constitution, which prevents narrowing the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms in the adoption of new laws. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill. But we ask that we also consider what it should be done in such a way that it meets the requirements of the Constitution, the timeliness of article 22 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u213	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u214	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko When I listened through one of the speakers, who, as he says, believed there was money and didn't know it, you knew well what was in the state, you were robbing it then and now you're robbing it. Look at how many Cypriot offshores each year your one party sends money, enough for several state budgets. So you knew everything and you know it well, and this bill is ambiguous. You're making a dent, you're handing it to the authorities today to limit the payment of one-time aid to military personnel. A statement that seven out of ten become disabled after serving, what are the conditions under which people serve? What medical conditions do they have today? So when they enter the civilian sphere, they go out there and check, and, in fact, someone can become disabled. Today you take away the right to receive such assistance. That is why this law can be passed, but it is being specially designed today as another depth against those who retire from military service today, not as assistance to them, as some have shown. I would also like to point out that money in the state is really, really much. But that lie that the President started, and you're continuing it, shows there's no clear reckoning today, how to pay off those social initiatives that were offered. You give 3 billion dollars to the International Monetary Fund today, and then think about it, and 3 billion times 8 is 24 billion, and 16 times the promised, so 40 billion. Where will you take them? Only on the left bank of Dniper can this be printed in the Ukrainian monetary court. But then those poor pensioners who get a little bit of a raise get into a terrible inflation zone where that money just burns up and makes any advances, it's already once been. In your time, you have promised so much that there are no so - called naive ones on your head. So enough lies, people are good.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u215	Grivkowski. He's refusing. Yuri Carmazin, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u216	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I really agree with those deputies who said that this bill is ambiguous. There are positive points, there are negative points. This is especially so now, National Deputy Bondarenko, National Deputy Zadirko pointed out. What is ambiguous is the amendment to article 16 of the Law on Social and Legal Protection of Military Workers. Because the norm that says that only during the year, and for the reserve staff and for the other persons, only three months, can or may not be established, does not take into account that we still have such diseases as radiation in Ukraine, and they appear after a long period of time after receiving an excessive dose of radiation. And today, many of those who are retired die or are disabled because of the radiation sickness that occurred during the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident or during the service and now in these places. So I think these standards have to be removed because.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u217	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u218	I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u219	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Please, one minute Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u220	Thank you. Nevertheless, the proposed bill is much more positive than those negative moments, which are mentioned in particular in the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. He, this bill, accepted it in time. After all, it is suggested that we first review the conditions for payment of one - time financial assistance in the event of the death or disability of military personnel. That's the first one. The other one. This aid is defined as social pay. This was a long time ago, and this is what the authors are proposing. And to separate it according to the consequences and the moment of acquisition during a period of time, that is, military and other types of service, or when directly carrying out their duties. That's why the Communist faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u221	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted on a basis. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on social protection of military personnel, payment of one-off cash assistance in the event of their death, disability or partial disability loss. [[death]] [[Registration number 7277]] Please vote. [[13:31:47]] For 323 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. The regional parties – 184, "BUT – "Fathership" – 42, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 24, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 9. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian laws on privatization. [[Registration number 9713]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:32:33]] For 221 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Vladimir Makuha. The correspondent is the head of the Economic Policy Committee's subcommittee, Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u222	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Certain Privatisation Laws has been designed to lift the ban on the privatization of thermal power plants for the further implementation of their technical resupply programme through the involvement of non-state investments by transferring them to rent or concession. In order to prevent negative effects on Ukraine’s economy, a significant increase in the price of imported natural gas, an optimisation of the fuel balance aimed at reducing natural gas consumption, as well as its replacement for other alternative fuels, such as coal, is being prepared in Minneergocarbon. The implementation of the program will require the involvement of non-state investments that can be achieved by transferring state-owned enterprises into leases or concessions. In doing so, one of the main terms of the respective contracts will be the implementation by the future tenant or concessionaire of the technical rearms program, the transition to alternative fuels, first of all coal. However, according to part two of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, there is a ban on renting objects today. State ownership, which is state-owned, is not subject to privatization. The bill proposes to amend article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property by deleting paragraph 12 from paragraph 12. parts of the second word "heat power plants" and the exclusion of TEC from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization but may be corporate. The adoption of the proposed draft law will ensure the implementation of a programme for the technological resupply of power plants aimed at reducing natural gas consumption and replacing it with other alternative fuels. Please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u223	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, please have your report or report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u224	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, well you see that today the government is proposing to remove the coal industry now for the privatization of TEC, the next one is the oil and gas complex, that is, the appetites are growing. I would like to say that if the government wants to rent these objects and concessions, as he writes in an explanatory note, it would be enough to amend the relevant lease law, which prohibits doing so for businesses in a banned list. And then you can rent them, you can rent them, you can rent them. But the government decides otherwise, it just removes these objects from the list of objects that are not allowed to be privatized. This allows the government today not only to rent these objects in concessions but to sell them, reorganize them, dispose of other things, and sell them out in part. So I said this to the Committee of Concerns that what was written next in the explanatory note would not be done. If they wanted to do so, they would make changes to the Rent Law, a corresponding article that prohibits the rental and concession of objects banned from privatization. In spite of all this, the Economic Policy Committee has decided to propose the project as a basis, according to the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration. It's just not possible to take notes into account in the second reading; some TEC can be removed or included, but that's not going to change the point. Today, TECs will be allowed to privatize – that is clear, and MPs should take this into account in their vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u225	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Gennady Zdirko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u226	Thank you. Please give the word to Peter Petrovich Hashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u227	Peter Hassuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the MP for the Future, supports the legislative initiative for further implementation of the TEC Technical Refurbishment Programme aimed at reducing natural gas consumption and replacing it with other alternative fuels. To date, it is vital for Ukraine to reduce its consumption of blue fuel, which is constantly costly. The transition to the hydrocarbon mix, as envisaged by the TEC Technical Refurbishment Program, will allow Ukraine to save up to 6 billion cubic metres of gas per year. Yet the MP's Reforms Group for the Future points to the following. The project does not contain a single reference to the liabilities of future TEC investors, but it points out that from now on heat stations can be put on sale. We believe that the question of second reading should be further developed. Under such circumstances, the MP's "Reforms for the Future!" The bill will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u229	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u230	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Let us answer one question. Why do we today look to Europe, the European Union, to attract investment in modernizing our gas transport system? Can't we see if we can get the money out of the budget? Unfortunately, no! It was in a huge Soviet Union that had enough money in its budget to build a giant gas transport system and to repair it and upgrade it. That's enough. But that was in the Soviet Union. There's no money like that today. So if you look at the thermal power plants, this is the same thing: equipment and morally, and physically obsolete, enormous wear, inefficient use, expensive output. Naturally, the same is needed for upgrading, updating. Again, we are not in the great mighty Soviet Union when we could take it from the budget. There was a bottomless barrel of resources! There's no money like that today. So then, if the state doesn't have money, and businesses are working on the edge of security, we're not talking about electricity being inefficiently produced, but the fact is that the possibilities of both the PC and the accidents, and all the accidents, and so on. In order to ensure safe operation, therefore, there is a need for urgent measures to attract investment in modernization. And if the State does not have money, it is necessary to develop mechanisms to attract private investment. By the way, the whole world is using private investment in energy, not just in thermal power plants. In Japan, nuclear power plants are private property. In this situation, therefore, the bill also opens gateways for the wide access of private investment in the modernization of our energy system with a view to enhancing its efficiency. I propose to support the Government's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u231	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u232	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I'm not going to appeal to the majority in this room who make a decision at the hand of this predecessor, who recently spoke. There is one logic, there is an instruction and there are subscribers to this bill. And among the customers are the richest people in Ukraine, who are privatizing one cloud a day and transforming these skyscrapers into dictatorial structures, which impose services on citizens for the prices that were previously unthinkable. Regarding TECs, Kiev has thermal power plants that work on two types of fuel, both gas and oil. Five or four years ago, I discovered one bracelet that was worth 73 million dollars to the state when at TEC-5 and TEC-6, oil was allegedly sold and then purchased back. This was done by the authority of Chernewsky, which you are guarding as the pupil of the eye, because you need to keep here a representative of the Party of Regions in charge of the Kiev authorities, and Chernewsky would have to be put in charge of his affairs, but you don't get there. The D.A. removed the case, and then Yuri Lucenko, who was put in prison, just set up the case and put the criminals in jail. So this is done to monopolize the heat power plants, to turn them back into a dictatorship system in terms of citizens, and not at all to convert these heat plants into another kind of fuel. It's all a lie, a lie is that you could have done it now, and there's this possibility today to attach the oil, not the gas. This is possible in Kiev and elsewhere, there are stations that have special tender units to store coal. It's just about figuring out the remains, the rest of the country, and that's what everyone needs to understand. And this will now be done by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u233	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u234	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you all to hear us. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want you to give the command to block the cards of those national deputies who have not registered at the registration tables today or are now missing because we see empty rows. It's an extremely principled bill for the fate of the state. If we raise the Ukrainian National Security Foundation Act, it defines the loss of state control over such objects as a threat to Ukraine's national interests and Ukraine's national security in the economic sphere. I mean, dear government officials, you're all a threat to Ukraine's national security, because you're offering all of this. Now, look, don't be ridiculous: 16 billion dollars, or 120 billion dollars, you've just dropped out of the State budget to finance the Euro. Apparently, 50 percent of the swelling is there. It's obvious. And now the thermal power plants, you say you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u235	Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u236	I'm done, thank you. As a result, Mr. Head, see what you have to offer. which is proposed for privatisation: in the Odessa region of TEC, in the Kharkiv region of TEC, in Lugansk, Mikolayivsk, Dnipropetrovsk, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I am against this law, and I ask you not to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u237	Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, Communist faction, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as you've pointed out, in the government's explanatory note to this bill, it's so cunningly said that the technical restocking of TEC should only be done to reduce natural gas consumption, and it will require the involvement of non-state investments. This has already been discussed by the speaking colleagues here. But it is emphasized, especially, that this will be done by transferring state enterprises, or heat power plants, into rentals or concessions. And then you read, "and then you privatize the thermal power plants." If we are to speak in conclusion, we cannot ignore the new wording of the law that is being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u239	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u240	There is a problem of securing Ukraine’s integrated energy system, and it is completely destroyed by the adoption of this law. Therefore, the Communist faction will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. I remind you of the committee's conclusion: it contains a proposal by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office is of the same mind, namely, that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization, please vote. [[Registration number 9713]] [[13:46:29]] For 244 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 186, "BUT – Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 9, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 10. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the reform of the oil and gas complex is under consideration. Registration numbers. Just a minute. 9429, 9429-1. Please. Now, one minute, here's the first offer then we'll make your offer. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Who? Sergei Pashinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u242	Thank you. I don't want to get into legal details. Every lawyer's professional deputy realizes that what is now being proposed is a criminal offense. And to look at the bill in this way, and in fact today a bill has been introduced, not on the reform of the Naftogazu NAC, but today a bill on the theft of Naftogazu by the people of Ukraine has been introduced. The Timoshenko Block – "The Fatherland" definitely requires that this bill be removed from consideration for further work. In this way it is a criminal offence to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u243	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. Now, not all of them have spoken yet, one more minute, wait. Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Then turn on the microphone if you are on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u244	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! What did you think the previous power was thinking when it led to the bankruptcy of the Neftegas? When did they virtually bankrupt a unique enterprise? And today, in order to take action to improve efficiency, to make a decision in accordance with the Energy Charter, the European Energy Charter, which requires the restructuring of "Neftegaza", and then to attract investment from Europe. You're blocking. What are you blocking? You're effectively blocking the country's energy security. You want Petroleumgas to collapse, the gas transport system to collapse, and Ukraine's independence to collapse?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u245	[[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please listen to the offer. Dear colleagues, I want an offer, so I can't talk. Then you have to consider whether you understand or not? Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you, I'm going to put a motion to the vote, it's not a conversation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! You're not letting me tell you the possibility of an offer, so there's one thing left. One moment, please, dear fellows! I mean, you don't want to hear the offer. Please. Then there's only one thing left to consider when there's such a conflict. Please, please. I want to say it again, me. Don't shout, dear fellows! First of all, dear colleagues, I'm doing the Rules. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! There's nothing left to sell, please don't shout, Dear Colleagues, two suggestions on this matter. Well, listen, all you want to do is yell. Then they'll scream, you'll scream, and the other part will make the decision. What are you yelling at? Dear colleagues, please! Dear colleagues, please! From the point of view of the Rules, you understand perfectly that there have been no violations. There are differences in approaches. Well, please! There are differences, in terms of that. Please! There are differences in how you view this issue. You and I, dear colleagues, listen, we agreed with you last plenary week that on Friday the minister of the fuel-energy complex would answer these questions in order to make it clear. But they blocked the rostrum again, and they didn't get any answers to the questions they wanted to ask. Please, I'm not done yet, I'm not interrupting. Please! So we have, let's figure out one thing for ourselves: we want to understand this document essentially. Because the Cabinet of Ministers worked with a committee headed by a representative of the opposition, by the way, a faction that is solely about making. Listen! The implementation of the Energy Charter, which shows that there cannot be a gas - producing monopoly, delivers gas. Well, please, come on! Well, I want to say again, please, I'm telling you what happened. So please calm down. That's why there's a proposal, two proposals. Because the first sentence is to postpone consideration and on Friday it's going to be an hour of questions to the government and listen to the Cabinet of Ministers on this subject, one minute, one minute. And then, if there's no warning, don't look at it on one condition. That is why we need to sit down and vote. If this proposal is not supported, then we will consider this issue to eliminate such opposition. Therefore, I propose that, honourable colleagues, I move the matter to Friday. And after the hearing, when it's possible to ask the minister a question, let's get to the point. But the Cabinet of Ministers assures you, and once again, I want to tell you that this is about the execution of the Energy Charter exclusively, one minute, you can't break, you've already taken it. Dear colleagues, and when it comes to privatization that bothers MPs, it is necessary to review a law that contains a list of objects that are not subject to privatization. There's a gas transport system in Ukraine, you know that, please, well, I'm asking you. So come on, sit down, I'll put it to the vote. Well, Your Honor, how do we vote, can you understand that or not?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m0.u246	On Friday, this issue will be discussed. Well, I'd like to vote. I'm going to ask you to vote on the other part. Please! The Supreme Council will vote. I beg of you, fellow officers of honor. If I didn't think I'd put acceptance as a basis, I'd say there's no way to discuss it. That's why I'm asking you, please. That's why I'm betting. Please have a seat. Please. Please, come on. Come on. I love you. Andrew Anatolyovich, please sit down. I'm asking you to support everyone to remove this opposition. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask the left and right parts to vote on this issue on Friday after the "hour of questions to the government". Please let us vote and find out if we need to. I'd like to vote and not look for a reason to upset you. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's personal. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to postpone consideration of the issue of two bills is put to the vote. [[Number: 9429, 9429-1]] These are draft laws for introduction. The Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine with the aim of reforming the oil and gas complex. But if you and I agree to answer the questions, then the next one won't be blocking the Supreme Council rostrum. So let's make sure that we're looking for compromise so there's a possibility. Dear colleagues, one minute. So I propose, and everyone agrees with the opposition factions that the hearing takes place on Friday after a question has been asked to the minister on this matter. Please vote in favour of this proposal. Let us see how our arrangements are being fulfilled. Please vote. [[13:57:02]] For 373 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 16 o’clock, we will continue to consider the issues set out in the schedule for Tuesday, March 13.
