ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:33]] They registered in the 418 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you that during the break at 2.30 p.m., there was a meeting of representatives of MP factions and groups with the President of Ukraine, with the exception of representatives of two factions. Issues related to the interaction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as well as with the President of Ukraine, have been discussed in dealing with the challenges facing the country at this moment of responsibility, which is related to the need to make complex, responsible decisions. In addition to the fact that this coincides in fact with the start of the electoral campaign. We agreed that the Cabinet of Ministers should work more actively with committees, factions, groups. In particular, note the quality and complexity of the bills proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was also about the need for social decision-making, which was discussed at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and which was defined as the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine. On Friday, it will be possible to listen to more detailed information directly from the Cabinet of Ministers than the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We also agreed that regular meetings should be held to communicate with each other so that we could agree on the key issues and problems facing the country. Dear colleagues, I ask you now to consider the issues identified by the timetable. A draft Law on the Specialities of Purchasing in Certain Areas of Economic Activity is being announced for consideration. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:05:54]] For 196 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Pavlovenko. The Coroner is the head of the Economic Policy Committee of Alexy Plotnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, you are aware of the draft Law on the Specialities of Purchasing in Certain Areas of Economic Activity. The adoption of this bill is prompted by the need to define the characteristics of purchases by customers operating in specific areas of economic activity. According to paragraph 1 of section 4 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, the specificities of purchase of goods, works and services by natural monopolies are to be established by separate laws. However, in view of the need for international experience and the implementation of European legislation in the field of public procurement, the draft law takes into account the proposals of European experts on procurement in the areas set out in Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, which do not fully correspond to the areas of activity defined in the EU Directive. The draft law aims to establish a more flexible procurement regime for customers who carry out their activities in the areas of transport, distribution, supply, storage of natural and oil gas, production, transport and supply of thermal energy, production, transmission and supply of electricity and other activities. The draft law proposes to set valid limits for the application of the law, namely: if purchases are made at the expense of the buyers of goods, goods and services are equal to or greater than 2.5 million, and work and 5.5 million dollars, in other cases the application of thresholds established by law; the establishment of features for the publication of information on purchases that are required to publish the annual plan free of charge and changes to it in the national official printed edition of public purchases and on the web portals of the authorized authority and the optional sending of an annual plan and changes to the authorized authority of the State Treasury Service, and the possibility for the contracting party to enter into procurement contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u3	Do you have it or what? Have a seat, please. Correspondent is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexy Vitaliyovich Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u4	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 21 February 2012, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Procurement in Certain Areas of Economic Activities, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10006]] The draft law is designed to implement the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement and its provisions are proposed at a legislative level to determine the difference between the generally accepted order of procurement and public funds for customers who conduct economic activities in specific areas. Appropriately, a list of these areas is added, and the law adds an understanding of the areas in which exclusions are made from the general order. It should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council concludes with a number of comments to the bill. However, given the need for international experience in public procurement and the fact that the bill takes into account the proposals of European experts for procurement in the relevant areas which fully correspond to the areas of activity defined in Directive 2004/17/EU, the Committee proposes to adopt the draft as a basis. In addition, the committee also requests that the committee prepare the project for the second reading under the reduced procedure, i.e. within 7 days to make proposals to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this. Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u6	Olena Shustik, "BUT is the Fatherland." Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, if you think we've moved on the issue of GTS to privatize strategic industries and we're dealing with another issue now, you're wrong. This bill is presented by the government in the context of the general logic of output from government control of strategic industries. What does this bill mean? Well, I'm not talking about technology anymore. That means that half the branches should be outlawed by the State Procurement Act and a separate law saying that when it comes to oil, gas, electricity -- in one word, big business that works under power, it doesn't have to be controlled, they don't have to participate in tenders, they don't have to publish information. Treasury shouldn't check them out. They should do whatever they want to do. Well, my friends, a more corrupt bill. I know a lot of MPs here who were talking about lawlessness in solicitation, something they didn't come to today, because the Supreme Council didn't know that. There are legal novices here that an authority of state or local self-government on the basis of a special decision can withdraw from the tender purchases any operation. What is any normative act -- I have a question -- that the Cabinet of Ministers accepts? What are the "exclusive rights" that make it possible not to comply with the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine? I think if today we have airports in Donetsk and Lviv building a yoga teacher from Cyprus, because the firm is registered for it, now the energy network will soon be registered somewhere or on the unemployed from the Baltic countries, which the storm surplus has been purchased or somewhere in an African or Latin American country, because that means that we are completely repurchasing several officials. Once again, the Prime Minister's signature, the Ministry of Economics. I wonder who this bill is. Once again, on the basis of the investigation, those who have submitted such a bill are definitely subject to our anti-corruption legislation. I don't understand the position of the committee that says that seven days from now we need to get this energy system out of control. This bill could not be adopted or voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u8	Lesja Orobec, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u9	Lesya the Ripper, the Change Front. This bill is another step towards breaking the budget through government purchases, and now they're going to steal even more insolvently, because from below the tender purchases, according to the disclosure of information, entire sectors are coming out. And if this authority is unable to explain why, for example, for schools, gas is purchased for $850, and for enterprises whose owners are members of the Party of the Regions, for example, $200? They found a brilliant solution: just hide these purchases and keep stealing, no tenders, no information at which prices are being bought. The names of every MP who votes in favour of the bill, however, as well as the bill 9634, which will be considered on Thursday, must be made known to every electorate. And then let them try to explain in their districts why they're shutting down schools and hospitals for the sake of the economy, and pay for the comfortable conditions of the current Naftogazu leadership at 76 million per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u10	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u11	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, well, I'm going to start by saying that the MP's reform group for the future is not going to support this bill under any circumstances. We don't want to show red buttons, but we just abstain from voting and insist that our colleagues in general and in a minority reject this bill. We find it wrong, and few do we find it repugnant and wrong. The Cabinet of Ministers in this case, in my opinion, was wrong. Because you don't have to follow the plan and maybe the clerics who prepared the bill certainly didn't go through the first person in the Cabinet because, well, they wouldn't let people out of it. Of course, it's a lobbyist, of course, for today we can say that the Act on State Procurement is not perfect, there are obstacles, there is formalization, but there is no need to impose such powers on all sides. It is not enough that nuclear fuels are involved. Well, what are you doing? We will not uphold such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, this bill can certainly be attributed to the class of so - called scandals. But I'd like to ask the Ukrainian people's deputies more precisely with words, because things like "want to steal" and putting labels on all political opponents don't honor any of the Ukrainian national MPs. Now, let's get to the point. If such a separate public procurement procedure were designed to contribute to the development of production in order to contribute to the prosperity of the basic sectors of the national economy, such a separate procedure would certainly be welcome. I'll give you a concrete example: there is a proposal to provide air navigation services for aircraft to be removed from public procurement. If the system were to be built, constructed, we would be in Zaporozhye today, eventually putting Zaporozhye's unique state-owned penal enterprise Spark, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u14	Finish with the Sparks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u15	which, unfortunately, did not receive any orders to upgrade airports in Ukraine. So I'm not sure that this bill needs to be supported in the way it is right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Before voting, I would like to take a close look at the recommendations that have been made in the conclusion of the scientific and scientific department. [[B in m in s a l in]] Science-expert management. And now, dear colleagues, regarding the fact that the clerics have prepared us here and passed the law, I think you've all read that the law is passed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and is signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Because the Supreme Council does not look at clerical documents, but looks at documents submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the committee's proposal, it's about recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept the bill as a basis. Registration number 106. This is a draft Law on the Specialities of Purchasing in Certain Areas of Economic Activity. [[16:18:06]] For 236 Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 179, "BUT – "Batakushina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 25, People's Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, non-fractional – 11. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the taking into account of legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9660]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[16:18:51]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Justice, Inn Jemelyanov. The focal point is the head of the committee's subcommittee on industrial and regulatory policy and entrepreneurship, Mikhail Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the taking of legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs into account. The draft law is primarily intended to introduce the single window principle in the implementation of the state registration of legal persons and to collect them in public statistics bodies, in the State Tax Service and in the Pension Fund through the implementation of a single document, namely: statements from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Business Persons confirming the acquisition of a host subject in the relevant bodies. In this connection, it is proposed to amend the Law on the National Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs to the Law on the Congregation and to pay a single contribution to the general government social insurance. In order to achieve my goal, the project proposes that a statement from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs will be the document that will not only contain information about a legal person but also be used to identify them in the course of economic activity and the corresponding disclosure of accounts in banks. In this regard, only one document, a statement from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs, will be required to confirm the collection of economic operators into the State Tax Offices when they open their bank accounts. And I would like to point out that, according to the bill, this statement will be issued no later than the day after the state registration and that it will be given to free-of-charge operators. In this regard, the implementation of the bill will, of course, make it easier for operators to confirm that they have been taken into account by the relevant authorities, which I have called both the Statistics and the Pension Fund and the State Tax Service, and will normally simplify and significantly simplify.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u18	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u19	It will make it much easier to initiate entrepreneurial activities and will cost the process. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u20	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u21	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 7 February 2012 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian Laws on the takeover of legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to complete the implementation of the single window principle in the course of the state registration of operators and to collect them in public statistics, the State Tax Service and the Ukrainian Pension Fund through the introduction of a single document, these statements from the Single State Register of Legal and Physical Persons of Entrepreneurs that confirm the collection of the newly created owner in the relevant bodies. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion to the bill stated that, as a result of the first reading, the bill could be adopted on the basis of the following comments and suggestions. The members of the committee, after discussing the draft law, support its adoption. The implementation of the provisions of the draft law will allow operators to confirm their collection into public statistics, the State Tax Service and the Ukrainian Pension Fund by a statement from the sole national register of legal and natural persons who are entrepreneurs, which will simplify and cost the establishment of entrepreneurial activities in Ukraine. In the light of the foregoing, the members of the committee decided to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the collection of legal persons and natural persons by entrepreneurs, to bring the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the attention and to propose that it be accepted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u22	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please name Tishchenko Oleg, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u23	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, this bill is very useful for entrepreneurs, for entrepreneurial activities, and our faction will support it. There is only one such observation, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, which is still Bill 9661, the same meaning, and 9442. But they're not being considered together, they're being distributed in today's order, we're going to vote for them in our own way. But I think they should be brought together and worked together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u24	Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich. Xenia Leapina? Xenia Lupini microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! Lapina Xenya, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, this bill is indeed taking a step towards meeting the normal business registration system, and we are also supporting it. We want to point out that the opposition has offered a similar approach several times. Sadly, he did not find support. But we are glad that the government, after processing all of this, came up with a valid proposal. Why the first step? Because this bill actually reduces the number of documents needed to open the bank account. And it actually translates into electronic communication between the authorities, which is really what needs to be done. But the next step is to take the next step and connect to the open register and the banks. In this way, we will be able not to follow these statements of paper at all. So the second step is the same. Because even by simplifying the situation today, we will leave the queue when we have to follow the statement to confirm our identity with paper documents. So I propose to support this bill as a basis, but don't be afraid and take the second step without paper circulation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u26	This concludes the discussion. Gennady Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u27	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Our parliamentary group will support such a bill because this bill is useful for entrepreneurs, for entrepreneurial activities. And, of course, what's useful, we'll support it. In fact, a normal business registration system is being introduced, and we agree with Kseniya Ljapina's position that the next step is to be taken with regard to the admission of banks to the electronic system of the state register. And in this case, of course, the conditions for entrepreneurship are improving. Our MP group will vote in favour of this bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u28	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on this proposal, namely: the adoption of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to take account of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs. [[Registration number 9660]] Please vote. [[16:27:53]] For 318 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities is being reviewed. [[on the list of documents]] [[Registration number 9693]] The reporter is Head of the State Property Fund Rybchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich. The correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Xenius Leapina. Short cut? Well, I'm voting on your proposal: to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please. [[16:28:42]] For 225 Decision taken. Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Allowances in the Field of Economic Activities. The Ukrainian Act "On the Free System in the Field of Economic Activity" states that a document of a permissive nature is either a permit or another document that is given to the holder. The bill provides for the exclusion from the list of documents of a permissive nature of two documents which are by nature not permitted in the definition of the law. That is, a permit for the rental of immovable property and the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers for the sale of land owned by the State, which includes objects that are privatized to foreign states and foreign legal persons. These documents are given to the State Privatization Authority rather than to the owner. If less than 200 meters [200 m], such documents are provided as an agreement on the terms of the lease, and economic activity is not directed by the renter but by the renter. The adoption of the draft law will ensure that there are fewer arbitrary obstacles to economic operators that are in line with the President’s Economic Reform Programme. Please support the bill and accept it as the basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u30	Thank you, sit down, please. Deputy head of the Committee on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Industrial Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship considered this bill on February 7, 2012, with a view to making the following observations. Well, first of all. The exclusion of these two permits from the list of permits does not result in these permits disappearing, no. On the contrary, this leads to the fact that permits remain, but they are governed by other laws, not by the Freedom System Act. That's the first one. The other one. The government had reason to believe that these permits were questionable from the point of view of the subject, namely, who would receive these permits, the authority or the enterprise. Yet, we have found on the committee that these permits can be obtained by both the authority of both the estate manager and the state - owned enterprise as the estate manager. And then, accordingly, it has to be governed by the Freedom System Act. Well, that's a third. These issues could be settled, but not by mechanically excluding these two permits, but by a comprehensive bill that regulates the inclusion of these permits as an intermediate link to the final contract for rent. However, this requires a radical change; it must be a completely different bill. The committee therefore decided, after considering the government’s proposals, that the bill should be sent to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work and that it should be given a comprehensive bill from the legislator, which effectively addresses the issues raised. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u32	Thank you. Let's sign up for the performance. Please, Vladimir Karpuk. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u33	Please pass the word to Lachish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u34	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u35	Honorable colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, here in the Parliamentary Hall are now considering the fight against corruption, the relief of entrepreneurs, the only window, God knows what else. It's actually a two-pronged campaign. First, it's corruption in Parliament and in society that has eaten the country from the top down, and secondly, to let you know, because you don't go to people, you don't know what people live by, that your laws that you adopt, they don't come true, and people don't get any easier than that. Praise yesterday, the Department of Transport, which brought the heat from South Korea. And long ago you were in Lugansk, where 40,000 people worked on Lugansk? Why don't you order these heat in Lugansk, not South Korea? The mayor of the city boasts, Kiev, that we will make the best transport in Ukraine. And what's the best transport they can do? They're 400 buses. Why don't they buy 400 Lviv buses? Why don't they buy 400 Luazs of Vollin? Why won't they make these 400 buses on the croissant base? Who do you think you're trying to improve your life for? Where do you spend your budget money? You make the last cents of your business, 200,000 small businesses are out of work, and you pay the Koreans, you pay the Vietnamese, you pay the Chinese, and God knows who. When are you going to start paying the Ukrainians? When are you going to give millions of Ukrainian people a job and a salary? I'll tell you when we get you out of here and put a cross on this disgraceful Supreme Council and this government. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u36	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u37	It's hard for me to understand what it has to do with the bill that we're looking at, these screams and rapes on the rostrum, which is where someone is going to carry this male milking specialist. I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, you must make a note. We're looking at drafts, we're, as we understand, we're working. You put it in the same place you're supposed to put it in. Dear colleagues, with regard to this bill and the observation made by the committee of profile. The point is that two licenses don't disappear, and they actually transform into something else. So I'm making a proposal, Kseniya Mikhailna, maybe you'll agree to that, and if we adopt this bill in the first reading, and we change the second reading to make changes and additions to other bills, that is to say that it works. [[I understand what this is about.]] And if not, it is clear that this bill should be sent for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u38	Vladimir Caplienko, Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u39	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, honourable national MPs, we have a number of observations under this bill and they only apply to one point. Would this bill open up the possibility of buying land for foreigners in a state or municipal form of property? This is the only question before this bill. We will support this bill in the first reading only if these rules are excluded before the second reading and if we initiate such an introduction without violating article 116 of the Rules. So here I'm saying on behalf of the MP group. If our rights are not taken into account, the fate of this document may be as was the fate of the corruption document of the Public Procurement Act that took place last year. Or biometric passports. All of it. We will support this bill only under this condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u40	Question completed. You can't, because I'm sorry. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, as a basis for the first reading, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities. [[on the list of documents]] [[Registration number 9693]] [[16:38:04]] For 227 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Free Legal Aid Act. [[Registration number of Bill 9496]] There's a proposal, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:38:42]] For 225 Supported. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna. Prepare for Zabarski committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You have before you a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Free Legal Assistance. As we know, this Free Legal Aid Act came into force on July 9, 2011 and finally came into effect in the country with the practical implementation of article 59 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And according to this law, this is the mechanism in which our citizens, who under different laws had the right to free legal aid, were finally given a practical mechanism, how they would get this right, which would be created by appropriate centres in each of the areas that would provide this free legal aid. This law defined what categories of citizens would have, what criteria would be used, how lawyers would be selected to provide free legal aid. In view of the effectiveness of this law, it was necessary to bring into line a number of legislative acts, including, firstly, the Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Master's Procedural Procedure, a number of laws, such as the Laws on Lawyers, the Laws on Militia, the Laws on Local Self-Government, the Laws on Local Governmental Administrations, especially in the part of primary free legal aid, the Laws on Prevention of Domestic Violence, refugees and persons who need additional or temporary protection and a number of other laws. In particular, it has been determined how the document should confirm the mandate to provide representation services to the courts and various State bodies to lawyers, and it has been determined which category of citizens would be additionally entitled to free legal assistance. And I want to say that this law is essential for the practical implementation of the Free Legal Aid Act, and I want to ask you, honourable national MPs, to support it in the first reading so that the state will finally implement it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u42	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u43	Thank you. The state is to implement this mechanism, starting on 1 January 2013 – in criminal matters and for several years starting in 2014 – in civil matters. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u44	Thank you. Head of the Legal Policy Committee of Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u45	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Collegiates, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, discussed on February 8, 2012 the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. This project is aimed at ensuring a mechanism for the realization of the rights of Ukrainian citizens, foreigners and stateless persons to free primary legal assistance and the right of individual categories of persons to free secondary legal assistance by bringing a number of Ukrainian legislative acts into line with the Free Legal Aid Act. The legal basis for drafting the bill is the provision of article 59 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on Free Legal Assistance. The draft provides for amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Family Code, the Civil Procedure and a series of other legislative acts. In its conclusion, the main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to go back to work. But in agreement with the Special Observations of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it should be noted that under the Ukrainian Free Legal Aid Act, the right to such assistance is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, and by bringing this law into line with the Ukrainian Law on Legal Aid, we resolve this issue. So since the entry into force of all the provisions of the Ukrainian Free Legal Aid Act, the list of entities entitled to free legal aid can be improved both by amending the law and other legislative acts. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, registration number 9496 of 24 November 2011, should be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u46	Yes, thank you. Shall we discuss it? Yes, sign up. You're an ass. Yavorovsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u47	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Bully, Santa. The MP's Group on Reforms for the Future sees this bill as valid, 9496, and above all because it amends more than 20 pieces of legislation on free legal aid. But I would like to say, not about the better features of this bill, but about the flaws that I think we should remove to the second reading. What are we talking about? For example, in part, a child with custody or care is entitled to free legal aid. That is, there is a contention with active legislation, for part one of the first part of article 247 of the Family Code provides that a child has the right to be protected from abuse by a guardian or caregiver. But then there's the colossal. In line with part two of article 18 of the Free Legal Aid Act, petitions for legal services concerning children are made by guardians or caregivers. In fact, a child will be in such a situation when, if an illegal act has been committed to it, he is actually entitled to complain about these illegal acts either through a guardian or a caregiver. And in fact, there are questions about the actual ability of this child to protect his or her rights. And we think that by the second reading, these colossals make sense to clean up. Our parliamentary group will support this bill as an idea and a delegation, but I would like the Ministry of Justice and the committee of profile to work on the second reading of these coalitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u48	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u49	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", town of Kirovograd, 100th constituency. Yulia Timoshenko's Bill of Free Legal Assistance was backing up its time, thinking that we really do have a completely indignant country today, a lampenized country, because there's a little bit of help for people. Although, frankly, free legal aid in a country where there is no right or aid, it is a dead man’s park, and no one is using it. We still have to take either money to court, or we have to wait for a call from the district administration, or the president's office. But anyway, we pulled one of these strings by adopting the Free Legal Aid Act, and it's quite clear that we needed to quickly and expeditiously amend almost half a dozen other laws, because without that, they just wouldn't work. That's why we think, "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" thinks it's purely in the legislative context of a technological bill, and it doesn't have any new legislative novelties, but it's all about the implementation of the law on free legal aid. As a result, we will support this bill with a clear conscience. Although, once again, in Ukraine, hoping for free assistance, where there are no courts, where there are no prosecutions in fact, this is "filkin's letter." But we're not going anywhere, we're going to vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u50	Ivan Popescu, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u51	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! This bill aims to create a mechanism for the realization of the right to free legal aid. And we want to pay attention to this, this mechanism wasn't there, and so we need to make the right changes. And the second point I'd like to pay attention to would give us an opportunity to bring our legislation closer to European standards. We keep saying, however, that we should harmonize our legislation with the standards of the Council of Europe and so forth, today is an opportunity to do so. That's why the Party of Regions will be in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u52	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office does not share the optimism of the committee and believes that the bill needs to be returned to work. In accordance with the Rules, the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, is submitted to the vote in connection with the adoption of the Law on free legal aid. [[Registration number 9496]] Please vote. [[16:49:09]] For 317 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending article 81 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges is being announced for consideration. [[on staff at the National School of Judges of Ukraine]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I have to put this committee proposal to the vote. [[16:49:47]] For 223 Decision taken. Mr. Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov, head of the Committee on Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u53	The distinguished presidency, respected by colleagues, considered the bill of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Justice Committee at its meeting on 11 January 2012. The Committee supports the idea of the bill itself, a clear definition of the level of material security and social protection of employees of the National School of Judges of Ukraine. In its consideration, however, the Committee drew attention to the following. The bill proposes to compare the employees of the National School of Judges of Ukraine under the conditions of payment to the relevant categories of civil servants of the Supreme Council of Justice. First, no specific requirements and regulations would apply to members of the National School of Judges. Secondly, the Supreme Council of Justice is a collegiate body and consists of 20 members, many of whom are civil servants. In addition, officials of the secretariat of the High Council of Justice are also public servants. The drafts are not defined as to what civil servants of the Supreme Council of Justice are called upon to compare the employees of the National School of Judges of Ukraine. In addition, a number of technical regulations are required by the bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the bill did not contain the financial and economic justification that was necessary, since the bill had an impact on budget expenditure. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour believes that the bill can be adopted on first reading. Having considered the bill submitted, the Justice Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following its first reading, that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for finalization. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u54	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Yes, Gryvkowski? He's refusing. Olena Shustik, please, the BUT-Paternity faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u55	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The new Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges was only a year and a half old, but it had been changed five times by now. Let me remind you that the previous Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges has only changed 7 times in 8 years of its activity. The project that we're looking at right now, and all the projects that are registered in the Supreme Council. The changes in the area of the judiciary, as well as the current crisis in the judicial system, have demonstrated sincerely that the so-called judicial reform was in fact a clear instruction from the capture of the judiciary, not a real reform. And the judges became just hostages to the new rules. As for the bill that we are considering, our faction will not support it. Because it doesn't really solve the problems of the status of the employees of the National Academy of Judges. The project only compares these workers to the civil servants of the High Council of Justice. But he does not point out to which categories of civil servants the High Council of Justice is proposing to compare these workers and, in fact, how to associate these categories. So he creates more problems than he solves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u56	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, please. The next one will be the Fedun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u57	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Of course, that report, which came out of the mouth of a representative of the Justice Committee, said that the bill could not be adopted. An analysis of this bill shows that the prime minister of Ukraine and the government, in particular, think that these people who are being separated into a special category, the National School of Judges, have a completely different holiday. And I want you to know that this is an annual vacation of 36 calendar days, and that they should immediately be compared to the categories of persons such as the Minister of Justice, the Head of the Supreme Court, or the Attorney-General of Ukraine who are in office as the High Council of Justice. Well, think about it, how can you write that?Oh, my God! Where is the scientific basis? Where is the financial basis for this issue? Therefore, the absolute right of the minister of justice and the opposition government of Helen Schustik to say that such a law cannot be enacted. He's not just raw, he's extremely raw. There is also the question of retirement. Although during the pension reform, we were told that everything would fall under the same law. And it clearly shows that during the assignment of pensions, they are also applied, compared to government officials. I don't mind settling these issues. But they need to be regulated in more detail, more thoroughly. Put financial and economic justifications on this problem and then how many people there are, how much work it takes to do. And then adopt a similar bill. You can't take him yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u58	Please, Vladimir Kaplienko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we, the MPs for the future, will not vote in favour of this bill, at least on two terms. First, and most importantly, the National School of Judges of Ukraine, to which we refer today, is offered the status of civil servants. Although I would like to remind you that a civil servant is different from anyone else in the first place from the powers given to control. The very control of the state authorities in this case will be exercised by the National School of Judges, incomprehensible. In fact, this bill is pocket money, in our view, pocket money, and it is not worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u60	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I recall the committee’s conclusion: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the bill deserves to be accepted as a basis. That's how he got out. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending article 81 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges. [[on staff of the National School of Judges of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 9556]] Please vote. [[16:57:34]] For 214 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a second proposal to return the draft law to the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to work. [[16:58:04]] For 242 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, you are invited to consider the draft laws amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[Registration numbers: 9661, 9446, 9524, 9647, 9663, 9789, 9661-d]] Reporters: First Deputy Justice Minister Emilianov Inna, Deputy Minister of Social Policy Lydia Drozdova, First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Ruslan Demchenko, Minister of Finance Yuri Kolobov, National Deputy Minister of Ukraine Ksenija Ljapina, National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Karakai, and Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy Hometinnik Vitali Juryovich. The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please. [[16:59:24]] For 224 Decision taken. So for two-minute reporters about their argument, their bills, and then we'll talk about them. First Deputy Justice Minister Ivanovna Jemelyanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u61	The Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, the draft Act amending the Tax Code on the collection of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs, as well as the newly approved draft law in the first reading of registration number 9660, is intended to simplify the procedure for the collection of newly created entities of the State Tax Service on the basis of a single document, a statement from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs. Why did the government introduce this bill as a separate bill? In view of the fact that the requirements of the Tax Code establish that only a separate law amends the Tax Code. In order to achieve the stated goal, the bill is proposed in a statement from the register to record the collection of the holding entity into the State Tax Office and to reduce accordingly the package of documents submitted to open the bank’s account. And when a bank account is discovered by the appropriate entity to confirm that the relevant entity has been accounted for in the State Tax Service, a statement is required from the sole state registry of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs. And as I mentioned in my report on Project 9660, this statement will be issued no later than the day after the state registration and will be made free of charge. Please support this bill. It will, along with Project 9660, create the only substantial mechanism to simplify the procedure for taking legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u62	Thank you, too. Deputy Minister of Social Policy Lydia Drozdov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The government is asking you to consider and adopt a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. The purpose of the bill is to introduce a separate Code of Tax Terminology for Homeless Citizens into the relevant terminology defined by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children, which was adopted in December 2010. The changes that were adopted included extending the scope of the law to noncitizens, foreigners, refugees, which led to a change in the name of law and terminology. Today, the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Persons and Homeless Children uses the term "homeless persons" and the Tax Code uses the term "homeless citizens". The government has prepared technical changes to the Tax Code, which are designed to change the word "homeless citizens" into "homeless people" in all situations. These changes do not affect the order in which taxes are taxed on the income of individuals and the value added tax. The adoption of the bill will avoid legal collegiates in the practical application of the provisions of these legislative acts. The implementation of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the budget. The bill is supported by the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in support of the bill, notes the need to make appropriate changes to the Budget Code. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has now registered a bill drafted by the government to amend the Ukrainian Budget Code. Taking this into account, please support and adopt the proposed draft Ukrainian law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u64	Thank you, too. I would like to invite you to the address of the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ruslan Mikhailovich Demchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u65	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 165 of the Ukrainian Tax Code is designed to regulate tax laws on non-taxation of foreign currency compensation costs by diplomatic officials for long-term deployment and the introduction of this rule in accordance with article 35 of the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service. Given the same nature of payments during long-term and short-term trips, the indicated compensation payments were never taxed. [[so-called "time"]] Thus, the adoption of the law will not lead to an increase in the expenditure of the State budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u66	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Government has introduced Bill 9647 to the Supreme Council, which deals with changes to the tax law and is related to the implementation of the Ukrainian President’s mandate to prevent unjustified budget losses, to ensure respect for the rights and legitimate interests of operators when applying the provisions of the Tax Code. The bill provides, first of all, for the introduction of new approaches to tax incentives to stimulate investment projects and programmes, such as corporate income tax, namely: to grant such benefits only on the condition that the relevant projects and programmes are energy efficient and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers; to change the state support mechanism for hydrocarbons for hard-earned or depleted crops, i.e. instead of the zero-performing interest rate that is currently in place for additional amounts of such hydrocarbons, to include obligations in general with regard to the allocation of funds to the special State budget fund. Such funds will have a purpose and will focus on stimulating the production of hydrocarbons in such areas. And there's an extra standard. This applies to the abolition of the right of public tax authorities to require tax payers to provide explanations on the issues arising from the checks. The adoption of the bill will regulate existing tax benefits and will have a positive impact on both the budget and the business in the relevant areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u68	Thank you, too. Kseniya Mikhailna Leapina, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u69	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. The bill is due to the imperfections of tax laws and aims at avoiding the double treatment of certain tax laws. Well, let's start by saying that to date, despite the fact that the Tax Code for simplified taxation entities has defined the form of taxation as three percent plus VAT, it is not, in fact, that subjects can't, because the tax system cannot clearly understand how to treat codex standards, whether they can immediately choose such a scheme, or whether they have it year after year, by working on the corresponding amounts, only then to use, in fact, the right and the ability to pay the added value tax. This ambiguous treatment needs to be interpreted, and we are proposing to define the subject(s) of the fifth chapter of the Tax Code for the purposes of determining clearly that these may, in particular, be persons who have voluntarily chosen a single tax rate of three percent plus VAT. Then there was a lot of misunderstandings about who was paying for the tax at the disposal of the waste, since it was not clearly determined what was meant by the permanent disposal or disposal of the waste, so it was a desire to collect this tax even from the temporary placement, i.e., excuse me, from every view in each yard, from every OSBB and so on. Similarly, it is necessary to give a clear interpretation of what we give, and we say that the payers are those who place waste all the time. Similarly, there was a misunderstanding about the water tax. With this tax, there were no misunderstandings at all. All of Crimea, small business subjects made a huge request for order in the Codex.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u70	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u71	Regrettably, many more standards, I will briefly say that they apply to the same explanation as who is paying the tax on. Rent for the use of nadrama, because today there's a gap that allows you to avoid taxation. And so, in our view, this bill allows us to improve the quality of tax legislation and allow us to understand clearly the subjects. In tax matters, how to tax the owners.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u72	Yes, Yuri Vasilovich Karakai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u73	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Considering that our committee of profile at its meeting has decided to unify all the bills on a single basis, and the provisions of my bill are included in a bill that is unified, I propose that it be simply removed or withdrawn from consideration and determined by the main bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u74	You mean 9789? Okay, then we won't vote him. Yes, Adam Ivanovich? Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u75	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Supreme Council Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy reviewed all the projects that were before. which have been filed both by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by the National Deputies of Ukraine. And we've suggested this approach that was actually proposed by the head of the Supreme Council to take a comprehensive approach to the changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code. Therefore, the last draft has been finalized, which, in fact, I report, brings together all the bills that have been presented before by the authors or representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, we proposed that all legislative initiatives be brought together and that a general bill be adopted. In fact, for the time being, there are some 60 amendments to the Tax Code under consideration by the Committee, and those with general support are now united in this. But I would like to point out that a separate Bill 9647, which was reported to be the prime minister of finance, did not enter into a general bill. And we recommend that we look at it separately, because there are rules of discussion, and we didn't have a committee decision on it. That's the first one. And secondly, for the transcript, I also want to point out that the issue of a simplified tax system is suggested in this bill. Now, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u76	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u77	I would like to point out that special attention has been given in this bill to a simplified system of taxation, a new simplified system that has been in operation since January 1st. And this bill proposes to introduce a moratorium on the application of certain fines to single taxpayers. This is due to the fact that since January 1, a new KWED has been introduced and there is a certain complexity, that was, in fact, a certain complexity for entrepreneurs at the beginning of the year, and there have been some distortions in this regard. In addition to the fact that the system is actually new, we have suggested that we do not make moratoriums on checks, but that we do a moratorium on penalties for simplified tax subjects. Also for the stenographer. Anatoly Ivanovich! There's a discussion about producers and realizers of jewelry on which system they have to be on, either on a simplified or generally, or pay a percentage three times five percent. We will also discuss this discussion for the second reading together. Thank you for your attention. Please support a general bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u78	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Oleg Tishchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u79	Thank you. Oleg Tishchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland", "The Fatherland Party." We supported our faction Bill 9660, 9661 it's the same content, only the changes go to the Tax Code, and we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u80	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, then Kamchatny Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u81	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to address you more than the government, because we have four planned today, four drafts from the government of change to one legal act, to the Tax Code. Well, there are four deputy ministers, all right, but it's bad that there's not one prime minister who would agree on this and say who has any changes to this code? How much you're going to torture that Supreme Council and give it to everyone. And each one of you is right in his own way, in view of your ministry, everyone is right, and the homeless are right, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is right. Everyone's right, there's only one code, and we have a lot of ministries. And if everyone does that, it's not productive use of the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u83	And because of this, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I propose, and once again I say, in fact, every one of these petty issues deserves support, everyone, but in form they must all be returned to the government, let him look at everything he has before this code, and give it right away. And we need to learn the order of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u84	Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u85	A stoned, parliamentary group called Reforms for the Future. We've carefully analyzed all the bills in our group, in particular, we've drawn attention to a bill that's unifying, 9661-d, and we've tried to write everything that's positive, it's written on 2.5 pages. I'm just gonna name a few things. This includes ensuring the implementation of the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection of Homeless Persons and Homeless Children, eliminating disagreements with this issue in the current legislation, organising income tax benefits for enterprises producing heat or electricity from biofuels, as well as for payers producing electricity at small hydroelectric power stations, aligning and aligning the terms of the profitable territory at the legislative level and so on and so on. So our group has always supported and supported those bills that have a positive effect, and we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u86	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u87	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The country needs radical changes in the Tax Code. Do you know, honourable national deputies, that Ukraine takes first place in the world, shame on government officials, by the number of taxes? 135 taxes and congregations, we set a world record, and then we wonder what tens of thousands of entrepreneurs are testifying to the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities. Why are millions of Ukrainians deprived of employment and employment? But because you're destroying everything that lives in Ukraine by the amount and the high taxes. So I'm saying that the country needs a radical tax cut for small and medium-sized businesses, a change in monetary policy, so that business has the opportunity to take loans under 5 percent of the year, not under 30 now, and a radical increase in taxes for oligarchs, a radical increase in taxes for government officials. And put the government in the neck, which led Ukraine to a collapse that took millions of people out of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you to keep your voice, before the election is over. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. We will now vote in favour of draft laws in order to register them and discuss them. Now, honourable colleagues, vote on the draft law. [[Registration number 9661]] Draft Law 9661. There's a vote coming. [[17:20:10]] For-26 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a draft law. [[Registration number 9446]] [[17:20:33]] For-0 The decision is not taken. I see. I'm betting on a draft law. [[Registration number 9524]] [[17:20:58]] For 1 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a draft bill for adoption as a basis. [[Registration number 9647]] For-0 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[9663]] [[17:21:48]] For-47 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a draft law to adopt it as a basis. [[9789]] [[17:22:11]] For-0 I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 9661-d]] [[17:22:35]] For 258. Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of the Territory, which has been subjected to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, is being announced for consideration. [[on management conditions]] [[Registration number 8433]] I'm betting on a motion from the committee to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:23:19]] For 225 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Mikola Haritonovich Schershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u89	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to create conditions for the restoration and continuous economic development of radioactively polluted areas. The current edition of articles 16, 18 of the Ukrainian Law "On the legal regime of the territories affected by radioactive pollution as a result of CHEUS introduces certain prohibitions on economic activity in zones of guaranteed voluntary eviction and enhanced radiological control. This is the third and fourth zones. At the same time, according to the latest general dosimetric passport of population sites held in 2008, there are no radiological grounds for most settlements to ban the construction of new enterprises. In view of the urgent need for the restoration of radioactive pollution, the project proposes to lift the ban on safe farming in these areas. We propose, in accordance with legislation, that local government authorities be given the right to make their own decisions on the safe management of agriculture, on the development of organic production, and on the basis of agreement with state and expert bodies responsible for overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and radiation safety. This position is entirely in line with article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, which defines the conditions of living and working without restrictions on radiation. I am confident that this will contribute to investment in the development of the affected areas and to the involvement of citizens in the active participation of the household. I pay attention to the MPs, Ukrainian citizens, the proposed draft law does not provide for a change in the boundaries of the zones, the status of the population, and the status of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u90	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u91	It will promote economic and social progress, help create new jobs. Making changes to the bill does not require additional financial costs. And it is estimated that by increasing business and investment activity, there will be an increase in tax revenues to Ukraine’s State Budget. Which, in turn, will provide real opportunities to restore the infrastructure of radioactively polluted regions, rehabilitate the areas of these communities, create conditions for strengthening social and health protection programmes. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Committee on Social Policy and Labour are proposing to send a bill for further work. The Committees on Budget and European Integration have no objection to the bill. The Health Committee supports the bill and draws attention to the need to create conditions for the economic rehabilitation of areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster reviewed the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis for further committee work. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u92	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, what, shall we vote? Discussion? Please sign up. And we're going to continue the evening session for 15 minutes. Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u93	I am asked by John Kirilenko, and I am happy to give him the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u94	Ivan Kirilenko. Please, Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT is the Fatherland." The next one will be the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u95	Dear Head, my dear colleagues, you will not be able to blame the author of a bill that resides in the pollution zone as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, nor will you blame him or any populism here for pursuing or wanting anything, given the nearness of the electoral campaign, for somehow returning to his constituents. On the contrary, I thank Mikola Haritonovich for introducing this bill, because after the Chernobyl disaster six areas are hundreds of thousands of acres of land, tens of thousands of people living in this area, the land is out of circulation, and people are out of work. Today, he proposes that the bill take a closer look at this subject, this problem. In view of the fact that the Supreme Council had already adopted a serious program in 2006 on the restoration of agricultural and other activities in that area. Unfortunately, this program and this bill have been dedicated, but there's still a problem. And today, if you carefully monitor this territory, yes, as a workplace in this territory, being an agricultural activity in this territory, being a people with a job. That's the point of this bill. Economic activity, especially agricultural construction where the monitoring structure gives good, what it may be, could be agricultural activity. Please, today you can grow, let it not be food crops, but technical, especially the same biofuel rape, why not grow -- it's hundreds of thousands of hectares that are going to be involved in agriculture today, it's tens of thousands of jobs, it's restoring economic activity. Mikolo Haritonovich, thank you for the bill. Our faction will support your initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u96	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Next is George Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u97	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear national MPs, distinguished colleagues, the MPs' group "For the Future" will fully support this bill. We believe that it is essential for us to accept it, and we consider it human. And I'm going to personally say, as a person who's been in the Chernobyl area since 1997, and I've been there for five years, I can say that it's a great tribulation when there's no work going on in such large areas on such large abandoned farm complexes. No one will give money for this territory. If these territories are now in the third and fourth categories and refer to the third and fourth zones, depriving them of this quality for today is actually not possible in a legal way, it is very long. Although it was found that 1,290 population sites could not be assigned to the fourth zone in accordance with the last proboscis of the General Dosimetric Passport, 1,201 people could not be assigned to the fourth zone. Please tell me why today, if the total radioactive radiation that a person can get there is less than one millisiver, why can't we change this situation? Of course, we will support the short-term procedure of de facto bypassing existing legislation and empowering authorized persons, authorized representatives of public authorities who care about the issue, to make decisions on the placement of new jobs, the extension or addition of territories, the expansion or construction of enterprises or the use of agricultural land. That's why the MPs vote 100 percent in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u98	Yuri Litwin. Oleg Zarubinsky will be there? Please, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u99	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to start by saying what Ivan Grigorovich said about the program that was adopted in 2006 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Nice show! And it was called "The State Program for Agricultural Production in Radioactively Contaminated Areas 2007-2016," actually for 10 years. The program was dedicated to the then president. I'm not going to open this discussion right now, this debate is right or wrong. Apparently, it's wrong. Why "wrong"? Because if you take the key positions of that program, and it's the legislative initiative of Mikola Haritonovich Shersun, and it turns out that this program couldn't be implemented, and we have to catch up today on what might have already been active in 2006. What did she predict? The guaranteed security of the population living in the area polluted by the Chernobyl disaster. Quality and radiation - resistant foods. Development in this area of agricultural production. Next. Restoration of traditional agricultural industries for Ukraine Next. That's something you should talk about. Improving the environment in this area. Next. Creating new jobs. Next. The development of productive forces. And one of the main ones is the restoration of productive and social infrastructure in these regions. Because when the economy goes down, the destruction happens to the social structure, which we are witnessing, in these areas. So if this program was wrong, not rightly dedicated in 2006, we today have to support the initiative of National Deputy Shershun and make it possible to rehabilitate these areas economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u100	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u101	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague Shershun for the courage of the question raised, because, in large numbers, we need to remove today's psychological pressure on the citizens who live in this territory. I looked at the decision of the Health Committee. Interestingly, it supports the bill and calls attention to the need to create conditions for the economic rehabilitation of areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. If the MPs remember what decisions we took as a result of the parliamentary hearings we held in 2001, in 2004, other, other, other, other years, including this year, we have made recommendations for the development of State-wide socio-economic development programmes for areas affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl AES accident. Unfortunately, the government will not listen to us, even to the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because of this, I believe that agreement with the central executive authority on living and working conditions without restrictions on radiation will be carried out in accordance with article 3 of the Law on the Status, Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and this project does not foresee a change in the boundaries of zones, the status of population, the status of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, i.e. it will not worsen the level of social protection, but it will involve business, and we will be able to show that we will restore these territories ourselves. Because I'm going to vote and I'm going to ask you to support this bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u102	Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u103	Thank you. In line with the decision of the 62nd session of the UN General Assembly of 12 November 2007, the third decade after the Chernobyl disaster of 2006-2016 was announced by the Decade for the Rehabilitation of the Permanent Development of the Wounded Regions, which should be aimed at achieving the goal of the return of the affected population to normal life, if possible, in the same terms. Today, 2012 and the problems that exist are far from being solved. So we note that the bill proposed by our colleague Shershun is based on the relevant scientific and research institutes over 25 years of data and will allow the next few years to provide only for the increased economic activity of the population and the investment attractiveness of these areas, the first for the economic development of the regions, the second for the corresponding improvement of the social conditions of the population, the third for the development of enterprises to obtain a clean competitive agricultural product, the fourth for the restoration of the recreational resources of the territories. And the main thing is that it will contribute to economic social progress, help create new jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u104	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u105	So the Party of Regions will be in favour, and please vote and support as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u106	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal is to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has some warnings about this bill. There is a vote on the proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 8433, to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Legal regime of the territory that was exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. [[on management conditions]] Please vote. [[17:38:20]] For 342 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending article 36-1 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act on the extension of the grounds for representation by the Public Prosecutor's Office in court is under review. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[17:38:58]] For 228 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Svetoslav Mikhailovich Piscon. The focal point is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Yuri Prokopchuk's activities. Yuri Volodymyrovich, please. It's all up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u107	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement, held on 16 November 2011, the draft Law of Ukraine amending article 36 was considered by the Ukrainian National MP, Piscoslav Mikhailovich. 1 The Ukrainian Procuratorship Act on the extension of the grounds for the right of representation by the Public Prosecutor's Office of the interests of a citizen in a court of law. [[Registration number 4061]] [[of 13.02.2009]] As has already been pointed out by the rapporteur, the purpose of the bill is to expand the list of reasons for the prosecutor to react to violations of the constitutionally established social rights and legitimate interests of citizens. For this project, it is proposed to supplement article 36 with a footnote to the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act with a new part three, which provides that, in addition to the cases listed in part two of this article, the Prosecutor's Office may present to the court the interests of any citizen with a view to protecting his social rights: employment, pension, health care, motherhood, medical care, education, a safe environment, and housing in public and municipal funds. Having examined the bill, the committee agrees with the need to introduce new mechanisms to ensure the protection of citizens' rights and notes that the adoption of the bill will serve as an additional means of reacting to violations of the social rights of citizens. By the way, there is now, and the prosecutor's office has acted in such a way that there were prescriptions when wages were not paid on time, when social guarantees were not paid on time, when other things were not paid, the prosecutor has arrested, including on bills. So the bill is absolutely justified on the basis that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u108	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u109	In addition to being a prosecutor, a supporter of the accuser, the prosecutor will be found in the prosecutor's office, as well as defending ordinary Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the draft law be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what shall we vote on? Discussion? Please sign in. People's deputies' names, Bondarenko Viktor Dmitrovic, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood". Vladimir Dmitrovitch, I'm sorry, the "BUT" faction is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u111	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear friends! Of course, the intention is good, I know that there is even such a practice of the prosecutor's office when a special assistant prosecutor in the district represents the interests of young children in the courts and in various other institutions, and such a practice already exists. The rights of the Prosecutor’s Office to present the interests of various types of the Ukrainian population, the citizens of the courts, can also be extended. But in my view, there is one danger that we do not undermine the role of lawyers and common advocates who would certainly be able to perform this function. We have the dominant power of the Public Prosecutor's Office to take on such proportions when it both accuses and defends, i.e. monopolize both wings of the trial, i.e. both trials. We can try to get this bill approved, but once again, we need to be very careful not to go to the conclusion of the role of this very important body in the Ukrainian law enforcement system as a prosecutor. This will depend very seriously on the personal characteristics of the prosecutors ’ representatives, on their desire to do this function, because it is not, in this case, mandatory as the law is given, but whether it will be carried out in one region or not. But once again, I emphasize that I will vote in favour, because I know the practice of law enforcement in the area of motherhood and childhood that the prosecution has done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u112	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u113	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I am positively referring to the initiative of the National Deputy Svetoslav Piscoun to extend the grounds for representation in the court of the citizen's interests, which must be carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The grounds for representation in court are the inability of a citizen because of physical or material conditions, old age, or for other important reasons to protect his or her own rights, or to exercise procedural powers. and the interests of the State, the existence of violations or the threat of violations, economic, political and other State interests as a result of unlawful actions. I mean, there are some comments to this bill. I agree with the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, which predicts that there is a need for us to write out more clearly what categories of citizens are subject to the assistance that the prosecutor is to assist. That is, the list of cases foreseen in the new part of the third, where the prosecutor can represent interests, needs to be viewed in the direction of narrowing. The work on the Criminal Procedure Code, which is now being done, which unfortunately comes down to propaganda sometimes, because only 130 amendments have been considered, and then decided by a spear to recommend to the Supreme Council, shows that our deputies forget about the Constitution. And paragraph 9 of the Transitional Regulations says that the Public Prosecutor's Office continues to carry out the task of overseeing and investigating the establishment of a system of pretrial investigation and enacting laws that regulate its functioning. This is exactly what we need to communicate with you today about the introduction of the system of pretrial investigation. I believe that this law should be adopted in the first reading with those remarks that the national MPs spoke of.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u114	Thank you. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a bill to amend article 36-1 of the Pro Prosecutor's Office Act on the extension of the grounds for the right of representation of the Public Prosecutor's Office in a court of law. [[Registration number 4061]] Please vote. [[17:47:05]] For-100 Not supported. The bill was rejected. We are considering a draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the bringing into line with the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 11 October 2011 No. 10-pp/2011. [[in the case of an administrative detention period]] [[Registration numbers 9301, 9301-1]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u115	Open up and see. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:47:50]] For 221 Decision taken. Report on Bill 9301 Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich. Prepare Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out the importance of these bills. The first thing is that 50 national deputies have asked the Constitutional Court to declare unconstitutional a series of articles in the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Police Act on Administrative Arrests. And in October 2011, the Constitutional Court ruled and declared some of these laws unconstitutional and they became invalid. But this decision states that Ukraine's legislative body, the Supreme Council, should amend certain articles of the Code of Administrative Offences in order to correct disagreements regarding, well, firstly, the drafting of an administrative protocol on administrative detention. With regard to bringing a person to court for his administrative detention. When should these protocols be considered? That is, the Constitutional Court obliged the Supreme Council to change these articles so that there would be no double interpretation. And it's not in principle for my bill to be adopted. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin has also passed a very good bill, but either they are mine or Karmazin must be accepted. Why? Because if we don't accept them now, it's clear that only in the fall can we submit again and implement the recommendations of the Constitutional Court. And then there's the election, and there we're going to forget about our citizens, who are being illegally detained and beaten up on administrative arrests. I can give you an example of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u117	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u118	Before condemning the Polosov maniac, 10 persons were condemned, even shot. And before that, they were administratively detained, and they had a display. That's why I'm asking you to support either my or Carmazin's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u119	Bill number 9301-1. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin represents. Prepare for the Shemchuk Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! First of all, let me go to the factions of the coalition. I know you're against these bills. I know there are downsides to these bills in the government. And I'm talking to you, listen carefully to what's going on. There's nothing political about this project. And it's absolutely fair right now to say by experienced prosecutor Sergei Grigorovich Mishchenko that it doesn't matter what project you accept, whether it's mine or his, they don't bite each other, they can't be contradicted. The need for adoption of this bill is due to the Constitutional Court's adoption of Decision No. 10 of 2011. [[here's the time-limits for detainment]] This decision raises the question of the conformity of the Constitution of the individual provisions of Article 263 of the Admincodex and paragraph 5 of the first part of article 11 of the Police Act concerning the periods of detention of persons who have committed administrative offences. Accordingly, it is suggested that such changes be made. Article 254 states that the record is drawn up at the time of the discovery of the offence. In case of inability, there are objective reasons that make it impossible for a protocol to be drawn up at the time of discovery, it is made up within a reasonable time frame, and this is what European documents always say "reasonable time," but not later than three days. That's the change to 254. The 257th question is that a protocol on the commission of an administrative offence, along with other materials, should be sent to the authorized authority no later than three days after its composition. As for the 259th, I suggest that the delivery of the intruder should take place in as short a time as possible, but not more than 3 hours from the moment of the restriction of will, action and movement of the person. And there's no more than three people in the 263rd term. It's practically all the changes. There's still a little change before.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u121	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u122	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support any of these bills, but I support them. Importantly, it is important to implement the Constitutional Court's decision and ensure that the rights are violated, a mass violation of the rights of citizens that will take place if we do not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u123	Head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Viktor Viktorovich Shemchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u124	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting on 7.12.2011, reviewed the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences for bringing in compliance with the Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 11 October 2011 and the alternative. [[administrative detention cases]] [[Registration number 9301]] [[Registration number 9301/1]] The draft Ukrainian Registration Act 9301 was designed to implement the draft Constitution of the Constitutional Court, for which it is proposed to amend article 257 of the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the definition of a one-day period during which the protocol is sent to the authority responsible for handling administrative offences. It is also envisaged to amend part eight of article 259 of the Code on Administrative Violations concerning the establishment of the maximum duration of delivery of the offender – 3 hours and the corresponding amendments to article 263 of the Code on Administrative Violations, which are declared unconstitutional. An alternative bill on registration number 9301 has been drafted to specify the effectiveness and constitutional guarantees of citizens during administrative detention and some questions on the establishment of a protocol on administrative misconduct in this regard, and the corresponding additions to articles 254, 257, 259 and 263 have been proposed. Having examined the draft laws cited, the Committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian law under registration number 9301. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that both draft laws be returned to the subject-matter of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u125	Thank you. Shall we make a decision? Sign up. Tushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u126	Yuri Vitaliovich Odarchenko please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u127	Please, Odarchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, these two bills are aimed at bringing in the Code of Administrative Violations with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. Once again, I would like to remind the deputies that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on 11 October 2011 declared unconstitutional detention without a court decision for more than 72 hours. However, this decision has not yet been made, and the corresponding changes in the codex have not been made. Colleagues, during the discussion of this project, I would like to refer you to the facts of the use of administrative detention of internal affairs as a method of opposition pressure. During the months - long protest against the illegal imprisonment of Yulia Timoshenko, militia officers were repeatedly detained by activists and citizens who were just passing by the tent town. They were accused of petty hooliganism and malicious disobedience to militia personnel. Colleagues! Our police do wrong themselves, and when a person tries to fight him, he is immediately accused of disobedience. These bills are the first step towards solving this problem, and they bring the code into line with the requirements of the Constitution. But in the future, we have to move on. We must stop the criminal use of militias as a tool to intimidate opposition. Dear colleagues! I propose to vote in favour of both bills, although it seems to me that my colleague Mishchenka's bill is more legally balanced. But personally, I will vote for both projects, hoping that one of them will become the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u129	Fedun. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I would like to propose that the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences should be adopted on the basis of a proposal to bring the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine into force on 11 October 2011. [[Bill 9301 registration number]] The author of the bill is Mishchenko. [[17:58:35]] For-103 Not supported. There's a second bill, 9301-1, by Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:58:59]] For-67 Bills, unfortunately, have been rejected. We should now consider the draft Recognition Act in such a way that it lost the validity of the Debt Restructuring Act under article 57 of the Ukrainian Law, registration No. 8009, but the author of the Bill, Catherine Samuelk, asks that it be recalled as one that has lost its relevance. I'm voting on the proposal. I'm voting on the motion to withdraw the bill at number 8009. Please vote. The chairman continues for 15 minutes for those who have not heard. [[17:59:50]] For 266 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the improvement of individual regulations on the restriction of smoking places of tobacco products]] [[Registration number 9474]] There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please vote. For – 230 Supported. Reports the head of the Committee on Health Care, Tetjana Dmitrovna Bacheviv. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u130	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! This bill has been prepared by 12 people's deputies, independent of political views. There is only one thing that unites us: the desire to help our children, to help everyone to be healthy. Because the effects of tobacco are very harmful to the body. We have a higher incidence of cardiovascular disease. Every day we lose 450 people with cancer, for the first time every day 250 new cancers are registered. And, of course, all our activities. What, what? Don't you hear me?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u131	Hear, hear, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u132	All our activities had previously ratified the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. Article 8 of the Convention requires all countries to take effective legislative measures to protect against the effects of tobacco smoke in the workplace, in public transport and in closed public places. Our bill provides for all of this, but we have further expanded our opportunities to be free from tobacco, including stadiums, open and closed sports facilities, indoor dining facilities and cultural facilities. It is very symbolic that 2012 was proclaimed by President Viktor Fedorovic Yanukovic as a year of healthy lifestyle and sport, so our legislative framework also includes this. Today, 12 countries in Europe have adopted such bills. And according to the UEFA initiative, which requires a clear release from tobacco smoke of all the stadiums that we will participate in. So as a doctor, I think it's very important, it's our foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u133	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u134	Thank you. People's deputies to really say today that as many people as possible refuse, and those who don't smoke to not breathe that tobacco smoke, because 70 percent of the diseases are second-hand tobacco. The Chief Research and Expert Office supports our bill, the Committee on the Budget and the Committee on Health unanimously. Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u135	Thank you. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Ivan Popescu. Get ready for Tishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u136	I am a co-author of this bill, of course, and I support it. A party of regions will support it because it will contribute to a healthy lifestyle. Thank you. Let's vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u137	Alexander Tishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u138	Please pass the word to Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u139	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, I'm glad we have an anti-tank coalition or anti-tank coalition in Parliament. But I miss the fact that we don't yet have a coalition against the beer mafia sitting in Parliament. Because when we talk about the Euro, I'm talking about this bill right now, nowhere in any country of the European Union and those countries that are doing and promoting football is such a disgraceful, criminal and anti-national direct beer commercial on television. And our government, when sending their visitors here, during the discussion of this bill, said that we would destroy Euro if we banned direct advertising for our children to drink beer. So I think that after this bill, and this bill will be supported in the first reading, of course we should go back to our bill, which prohibits direct advertising of beer, which is the only one left in the entire European continent. Now it's about the bill. In fact, there are two problems. I'll tell you, as the author of the first restraining order that we introduced with Mikola Eframovich Polishchuk, 50 percent, 50 percent, which is 50 percent of the premises of non-smoker shops. Other standards will be introduced later. What's the first problem? The first problem is that the authors repeat the bans, such as the driveways of residential buildings, underground crossings, and sports courses. I have a question: Does anyone follow this standard? Of course, it doesn't work. Go through the crossings of Kiev, look, I'm not talking about the district centers anymore, it's not working. So just to repeat this rule, it's not going to solve anything. Now, with regard to the ban on public catering, there were 50 percent. We need to think about the second reading, we have this ambiguous rule that sounds in the law: banning indoors, except specially assigned ones, for example, we have cafes and summer bars on the street, that is, where open summer resorts are, you can only go to indoors. So I think we need to sit down and work on this bill, so it's not just a declaration that we're fighting for a healthy way of life, that it's being implemented and actually helping the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u141	Glacier Vladimir, Communist faction. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u142	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, King.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u143	Eugene Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u144	The Communist faction will also support this law, and we have co-sponsored this legislative initiative. I would like to say that today is another positive event, signed by the President with a scandalous law of 5164 on the total ban on tobacco advertising, which we have been fighting so long. Accordingly, I think that this bill will also aim to make our nation healthier. According to all experts, any and independent, and medical, mostly tobacco companies, the promotion of smoking in public places puts our young generation at risk for up to 25 years. Therefore, with the imposition of informal fines, you know, fines will amount to 30 to 50,000 bracelets for violating this legislative initiative, allowing this harmful phenomenon to be really eradicated. I want to tell you that today the faction of the Ukrainian Company is the most non-smoker faction in Parliament, two years ago Valery Ananievich Beaz quit smoking, Eugene Volínec quit smoking. We therefore set a great example for you to make our nation cleaner and healthier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u145	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u146	Dear National Deputies! Of course, thank God that in four years, after rejecting my bill that foretold all of this, rejecting it, look, yes, there are people here who remember who predicted it, four years later you introduced another bill. Yes, Aunt Dmitry or not? Did Karmazin convince you? I convinced him, but I couldn't convince him. Well, obviously, it'll go better with your authorship. I support this bill. But I am addressing Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Adam Ivanovich, don't you have to be hurt for all mankind, not hurt for our girls who work at the Secretariat, give us the papers that you've just placed in front of the toilet where the men were pulled from the toilet, and they've made a chicken without ventilation. These people work in the morning. What does Adam Ivanovich need for this? Just walk through, look and ban and nothing else, meet the requirements of the legislation that is there. And we're thinking that these are public food companies somewhere else, in the authorities, and we have a bard in the Supreme Council from this issue. I'm sorry, it's not exactly a parliamentary expression, but it's not Parliament when it's done. I also address those MPs who have been ashtrayed in the back of the towers. That's not normal either. Parliament should show an example of the implementation of the law, the Parliament itself. Because of this, the law must be passed. The law needs to be made harder. I support Santa Tomenka because the beer mafia has even thought of using different champions to advertise all these drinks. And children today don't know that well or that they don't know it well. So let's adopt this law. And let's check its execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-13-m1.u147	Question completed. Then, when you create a group of non-fractionals along with another colleague, you will have the right to speak. According to Yuri Anatoliyovich, regarding the mess, I fully support his words. That's all I'm saying is that the biggest violations of the smoking ban law are your factions, and I'm not going to show you who. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of certain provisions on the restriction of smoking places. [[Registration number 9474]] Please vote. [[6:11:28]] For 324 Decision taken. On this fun anti-smoker note, we're going to finish the session. I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow we start work at 10 o'clock.
