ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:47]] They registered in the 377 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on 12 January 2012. Twenty questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 10 laws and 10 regulations were passed, 3 bills and one draft decree were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, may I also welcome you to the Old New Year and wish you success and health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, due to the fact that the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not take place yesterday, and no one knew that there might be a blockade this morning, so there was no need to invite the government, because we had to carry out the tasks that we were supposed to carry out with you at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to close the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of course, the government invited to lead with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, on the Conciliation Council, we agreed with you that Friday is the last day of this session -- we'll be working somewhere in the first place until 1:00. Then we will have a solemn act of closing the session. In this regard, it is suggested that the "Victane" should not be conducted. I put to the vote the proposal to consider the issues set by the Friday schedule and then close the session without having to hold "Variance". Please vote. Vote, vote. [[10:03:05]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, take 30 minutes on Friday to announce their requests. Let me announce the questions that have come from the national deputies of Ukraine. Victor Schwetz to the President of Ukraine on the increase in budget costs for health care and health care for persons held in custody. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. Please vote. [[10:04:05]] For-74. Request not supported. Vladimir Danilenko to the President of Ukraine for the establishment of the State Prize, Alexander Derevsky's Order, for a woman who raised 48 children who will be the height of the mother's feat. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:40]] For 264 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:04:59]] For 272 Decision taken. Alexander Dove to the President of Ukraine on the assignment of the honorary title of Ukraine's Mother Hero. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:05:25]] For 268. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:46]] For 263 Decision taken. Helen Bondarenko to the President of Ukraine on the lack of response to and failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[10:06:16]] For 291 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:06:38]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to exercise parliamentary control over the observance and protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of Yulia Timoshenko. [[The digger, Shustik. Total 39 deputies]] Viktoria Demianchuk to head the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, Head of the Kirovograd District Council on the urgent resolution of the issue of the provision of constitutional rights for residents of the villages of Charovne, Mirne and Beremijuk of the Bobinecki District of Kirovgrad, who have the legal right to free possession of land for the maintenance of the private agricultural holdings currently owned by the state-owned enterprise of the research farm "Red Farmer" of the Kirovgrad Institute of Agricultural Production of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Valeria Calchenka of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to restore and support the domestic production of drugs and vaccines against particularly dangerous infectious human diseases and to ensure the implementation of Ukraine's constitutional right to health, to warn and protect the population against epidemiological viral infections that threaten Ukraine's national security and to restore the activities of the State-owned enterprise Biopro-Odessa National Action Company. Vasila Wondernova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction and operation of the surgical corps of the Galicá Central District Hospital. Sergei Gordienka of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the demands of children of war, Chernobyl and other categories of citizens of Poltavšina on the need for the unconditional enforcement by the State authorities of the executive powers previously adopted by the Name of Ukraine of court decisions on social benefits. Valentina Matvieva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the rapid adoption of the South West Railway leadership, without due consideration of public opinion, of the decision to cancel train stops No.359/360 Kyiv-Lviv at the stations of Poland and Dibrov in the Olev district of Žitomir Region. Vasila Wondernova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ivano-Frankow District Administration for the reconstruction of the swimming pool in Kosovo. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the Kirovograd District Council, Head of the Kirovograd Regional Government Administration on the use of effective measures aimed at restoring the work of the Kirovograd State Juice Extract Plant, with the aim of repaying the debt from paying wages to employees of the factory and creating new jobs at the specified enterprise. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of destroying the unique exposure of the Donbas Historical and Literary Museum of Vasil Stus and the necessity of taking measures to finance the museum. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of the reduction of the post-connection network in the Sumskie region and the introduction of the State's targeted postal development programme, which provides for concrete action by the State to assist the State-owned branch. Vladimir Lešchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for delaying the implementation of the pre-election pledges made by Viktor Yanukovič and Mikola Azarov to return the savings made to Ukrainian citizens during their meetings with the heads of the regional organizations of the fraudulent investors and the establishment of a conference of the Association for the Protection of the Rights of Ukrainian Investors at the end of December 2009. Gennady Zadirk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the Ukrainian state-owned firm Ukratransamak in the case of the end of 16 December 2011 of the transport by the Ukrainian part of the Tolyati-Odessa ammonia pipeline of the Open Shareholder Association Tolyati-Azot. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of a healthy lifestyle among middle and old people. Alexander Crnvolunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the Reality and Reasonability of the Concept of the State Metro-Polite Development Programme in Ukraine, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent installation of clearing facilities on the Iqua River, which flows through the Ternopil and Plain regions. Alexander Crnvolunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Kiev City Administration, Secretary of the Kiev City Council for the reduction of the city of Kiev's capital grants by 3 billion 600 million dollars. Victor Olijnik and Mikoli Potapczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the application of measures to prevent the closure of the Great and Samarov Regional Hospitals of the Ratni district of Volin. Andrija Paruba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the grounds for signature, the projected economic consequences and the possible risks of the Free Trade Agreement under the Commonwealth of Independent States, signed on 18 October 2011 in St. Petersburg. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the social protection of citizens in the Semipalatinsk nuclear area. Grenevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of reform of the Ukrainian State Sanitary Epidemiology Service. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the verification of the unlawful actions of officials of the State Energy Shareholder Company "Harkovoblanergo" and the Public Shareholder Company "Chernihiwoblanergo", which have resulted in two weeks of exclusion from the power supply of state security strategic military objects, particularly those who carry out combat alterations, which have undermined our nation's national security, the use of appropriate response measures and the involvement of those responsible. Gennady Zadirka and Vladimir Kaplienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deliberate silence, delaying and delaying the law-enforcement authorities of Kamyanec-Podilski Hmelnicka district of the investigation of the theft of property of the utility "Direction of the Construction of the Trolleybus Line" to the sum of 270 million dollars. Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Dnipropetrova District Public Administration, Donetsk District Public Administration, Luhansk District Public Administration, on the need for urgent treatment of young children for the comprehensive provision of medical care with a view to ensuring their inalienable fundamental right to health care. [[Bondik, Prutnik and others]] Alexander Kemenyash to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the need for urgent action to bring about the proper state of forest areas belonging to the roads of State importance in preparation for the Euro-2012. Stepan Dawimuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation. Groups of national deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine from the Rights of the Child, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Housing and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration, the Kyiv City Government Administration, the Vorsel Village Council of the Kyiv Region on the need for a comprehensive review of the need for a referral of 120 children to the name of the main doctor of the Kyiv City building of the child named Michael of the City Government of Murtish on the need for intervention by the relevant authorities of the state to prevent the situation for which children of the various age groups of the health of the central nervous system of the country are in possession of one of the central nervous system, and the need for the need for the necessary intervention of the relevant authorities of the State for the prevention of the situation under which the jurisdiction of asylum. [[Prutnik, Bondik, and others]] Victor Korja to the President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine on the violation of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and the neglect of the appeal of Ukrainian National Deputies regarding the abuse of office as Director of the Institute of Therapy of the Name of Love of the Small National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine by Oleg Babak. Alexander Kemenyash to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for information on the effects on the health of the people of the unreadable handwriting of individual doctors. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the need to support the domestic manufacturer of haemosorbing devices. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, head of the Kirovograd District State Administration for the baseless and unlawful release of the Deserved Artistic Actor Michael Illashenko from the post of Director of the Kirovograd Academy of the Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre Mark Kropivinski, who has been the leader of the creative team since 2002, has led him out of a financial crisis and has also earned high confidence in the theatre environment and in the intelligence of Kirovgradščina. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Health of Ukraine about providing patients with information on the available analogues of their medicines. Alexander Dove to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the shortcomings found in educational programs and tests of external independent appreciation of Ukrainian literature. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the National Penitentiary Service of Ukraine on the gross violation of the constitutional rights and interests of Yulia Timoshenko. [[The digger, the shustik, and the others. Total 38 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine on the legal basis for the broadcast of the film "Proto July" by the Hmelnicko District State Broadcasting Company "Department - Center". [[Kravchuk, Lukashuk, Biruk]] Alexia Kunchenk, head of Ukraine’s State Road Agency for the improper performance of Ukraine’s State Road Agency for the handling of Ukraine’s roadways during the winter period. Valeria Calchenk, head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of the use of the funds allocated for the reconstruction of the Kirovograd Academy of the Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre called Kropivinski. Vasila Cherniy, head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, Head of the State Agency for Land Resources, Ukraine, for the provision of official clarifications on renting relations with landowners of the Lipovecki region of the Vinnitsk Region. Sergei Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the failure of law enforcement agencies to take action to investigate properly, comprehensively, and fully the case of an armed attack on the family of Viktor Chekov, resident of the town of Shepetyvka Hmeljnické district. Sergey Košin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the improper performance of contractual obligations by the State-owned company Lukski Alcoholic Kombinate, before the company "Rokitnian Glass Plant" and failure to comply with the ruling of the Lord's Court of Volinsk Region. Arsenija Yatsenuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying compliance with the provisions of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and of taking appropriate measures of prosecutorial response in order to prevent violations of the legitimate rights and interests of the citizens of the city of Boyarka Kyivo-Svetoshin region of Kiev. Valerija Baranov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the improper investigation of the criminal case by prosecutors of the Lenin district of Zaporozhye. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the provision of a comprehensive, full and objective investigation into the road traffic accident, which took place on 31 December 2011 in the Chemerovack district of Hmeljna district near the village of Wilkhivka, with the participation of Toyota Land Cruiser and the head of the Ternopil district administration, Valentin Hoptjan, which resulted in the death of two persons who were injured in various degrees of gravity and one person from the grasses received died at the scene of the event. Victor Sweden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper exercise of prosecutorial supervision of the observance of laws and the need to ensure the constitutional rights and interests of Yulia Timoshenko. Eugene Zarkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District State Administration for the Protection of the Rights of Farmers of the Land of the Collective Property of the former collective agricultural enterprise "Fatherschina" of the village of Comfortable Bilgorod-Dnistrov Region of Odessa Region, Protection of the Rights of 846 Ukrainian Citizens and Verification of the activities of the agricultural cooperative "Fatherschina" in relation to the individuals concerned. Vasil Kiselov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, to monitor the conservation of the meliority systems that are on the balance sheet of local self-government bodies in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the assassination of political prisoners, Ukrainian citizens of Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka. Eugene Zarkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the Protection of the Rights of Peoples of the Mikolai District of Odessa Region, for the Remuneration of Remuneration for Workers and Servants of the amount of 289,500,000 dollars, and for the holding of a pie by residents of the village of Ambarov of the Odessa Region. Vladimir Leshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the provision of legal aid to unprotected categories of citizens in defence of their legal right to a premium journey in the suburban union, violated by the leadership of the South West Railway on the Chernigowka-Hornostivka route. Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to eliminate the consequences of unlawful infringements of the right to property of citizens and the restriction of the freedom of business by employees of the Ukrainian Security Service. Oleg Nadoshi to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the pollution of Lake Sunshine in Kiev. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the use of funds allocated by the government in 2009-2011 for the reconstruction of the Kirovograd Academy of the Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre Mark Kropivinski. Valentina Matvijeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the attempted management of the Kharkiv branch of the Public Shareholders Association of the National Export and Import Bank of Ukraine, illegally obtaining information about the assets of the bank's customers. Paul Silent to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the armed attack on the Kharkiv District Association of Proscita, causing serious bodily harm to its workers and public abuse of the State symbols of Ukraine. The branch of the U.S. Attorney General's Office on the detection of corruption, including deliberate and deliberate bankruptcy of a listed state-owned enterprise, in order to further privatize it, in the State Institute for Research and Research of Titanium. Alexia Kunchenk to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the cost of heating the residents of the Solomonian district of Kiev, where heat counters were installed. Thus, the honourable national MPs were asked 111 MPs. Ukraine’s national deputy, Vladimir Yavorowski, requested that he be given time to speak in connection with the dissatisfaction of the reply to the MP’s request. Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u2	Good morning, Ukraine! Dear colleagues, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, which I am in charge of, asked the Court of Auditors to verify the facts that had come to the committee on the grounds that, for five years, taxation was contrary to legislation, violating legislation, allowed imports into Ukraine from abroad without payment of import duties. Well, the fact is, it's murderous. I didn't get a budget of nearly 2 billion dollars. At the same time, of course, a book study in Ukraine fell. I asked the Attorney General and Prime Minister of Ukraine Azarov with my request. The demand is very simple: the response to the illegal actions of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, which for 5 years freed the import of a book of foreign origin, resulting in the loss of a state budget of 1 billion 800 million dollars. Dear colleagues, there are not many people here who were national deputies in the first vocation, in the second vocation, and they remember and know that before, every parliamentary request received a detailed pedantic answer, everything was done in due time, and the deputies were counted. What's going on now. I get it from Mr. Azarov's office, and I'd say, "Oh, no, you wouldn't.".. That's Azarov's favorite phrase. That's what they're telling me. I'm told that when you import books, you have to pay your dues and stuff. And the answer to this morals is that the State is supporting the development of a national book study by freeing people from paying taxes on the added value of domestic producers of books, textbooks and textbooks, dictionaries, and creating favourable conditions for publishers and distributors of books. I received the answer that we hear from Azarov that life is improving literally today, and literally, as Azarov speaks, life is getting better. Is this the answer to a painful question when it was necessary to bring to justice a tax service that, knowingly, gave the authority to collect the money in their pockets?? That's why I demand, and here's the second answer, I demand, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to get a very clear answer: who is being punished, or are those who are being held accountable? Then we can only have the answer. I think this is a lesson for many of us. With us in this state, with the deputies, executive power is no one, we are considered garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the speech of the national deputy Yavorowski, I ask that you prepare properly prepared documents in order to have a proper response. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen, we're going to have to vote on one point. I'll read it now. "In the process of drafting and preparing for the signature adopted yesterday by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 January 2012 of the Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine, it was necessary to clarify the specific provisions of the Act concerning the inclusion in the State budget of the Assembly for the development of winemaking, gardening and hops." [[Registration number 9363]] Therefore, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, is proposed to delete paragraph 7 of paragraph 5 of paragraph 1 and paragraph 4 of section I, in order to make the necessary technical and legal corrections related to the clarification of the numbering of the relevant provisions in this section and in the Final Positions. That's why I'm voting for this clarification, please vote. Well, we need to get a document. [[10:29:37]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a problem. Now, now, here I come. Now. Dear colleagues, the authors of the bill. The Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code has been issued with statements to the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposing that the draft law be removed from consideration. There are relevant statements from all the authors of this document. I'm voting on a motion for a motion for a motion to withdraw the draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. [[Registration number 1233]] Please vote. [[10:30:39]] For 273 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the Faction "BUT" – "The Fatherland", the faction "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" – according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine require a recess to be announced for consultations on issues of order and declaration. I'm upgrading, yesterday was a break, thank you. I'm modernizing your offer. () [[B in m in s a l in]] We need to hold factions. So I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to meet in the office of the Supreme Council for consultations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u4	One minute, I was doing it yesterday. Please! I'm asking the faction leaders, I'm asking the faction leaders to gather in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] A break of 30 minutes is announced. Faction leaders, please gather in the head office.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a break. During the break, members of the Conciliation Council exchanged thoughts on the painful issues that are now sensitive to factions and society as a whole, for the Supreme Council. A statement will be made by Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! It's a statement by the faction "The Yulia Block of Timoshenko is "The Fatherland." The Timoshenko's "Batochkina Block" called for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council for an objective, comprehensive and impartial study of all the facts of the incident that happened with Julia Timoshenko in the Kachanov Colony on the night of January 6-7. The interim commission of inquiry also had to determine how critical Julia Timoshenko’s health was, whether there was a real threat to her life, and why the authorities were blocking her medical care and refusing to allow independent medical personnel to examine her, since on Christmas night there was an event in the Cachanov Colony that shocked the world. Julia Timoshenko, under close surveillance for 20 minutes, was unconscious on the floor of her cell, without any help. This gives all reason to believe that the hands of penitentiary workers and people in robes who have no right to be called doctors are being ordered to kill the leader of the opposition. Yet the obvious facts of the violation of fundamental human rights do not concern the majority. Moreover, the parliamentary majority, led by the Party of Regions, openly blocks the creation of the TSK. They fear that as a result of the work of the Interim Investigation Commission, Ukrainian society and the whole world will learn about the true facts and the real scale of the abuse of Timoshenko. The majority refusal to support the creation of the TSK also indicates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine wants to turn into a puppeteering tool of a regime where the most terrible crimes will be approved at hand. Today against the leader of the opposition, tomorrow against the entire nation. The government hopes that once Julia Timoshenko is destroyed, she will be able to continue robbing the country, providing national wealth, and trading strategic resources. But the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko, Fatherland, claims that we will do our best not to let that happen. The government has failed to break Julia Tymoshenko psychologically; it will not be able to destroy her physically. Today you can block the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council, close your eyes and ignore outright lawlessness, but tomorrow you will have to take responsibility for this crime because you have become its accomplices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u7	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! The question of the resignation of the Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information is being considered. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, have 30 minutes to consider the matter. Such rules of procedure are proposed. For the initiators of this question: 5 minutes to report, 3 minutes to answer questions. For the head of the committee: 10 minutes for the report, 5 minutes for the answers to the questions if they do. And then one minute for each faction to express its position and attitude toward this problem. Is that what I'm saying? What, what? 30 minutes, I'm telling you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's ask the reporter 5 and 5. Is it gonna be okay? No problem. Helen Anatolyevna Bondarenko is the first deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! So far, I've been telling you everything about Mr. Shevchenk yesterday. I want to reiterate that the committee is headed by an dishonest person, an irresponsible person, a person who has forgotten about honour, dignity and obedience. Abuse of office, falsification of documents, censorship of complaints before the committee, and obstruction of the activities of other deputies because of their one - person decisions on the committee. I have a folder in which I have documents that confirm what I said: about the bills of mine and Morocco, about the bills of the same Ungurian who is a colleague, and which did not come from Shevchenk's activities until the session was considered in Parliament. So I ask you to support the decision of most of the committee and to express your mistrust to this dishonest person. She has no right to say anything about honesty, about truth, about justice, because such a person does not appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, questions. Five minutes to ask. Please sign in. Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u10	Thank you. Olena Anatolyevno, please tell me, right now, there's a little bit too much emotion around this question, I think. I remember Vitaly Shevchenk, and colleagues of the national deputies of Ukraine on the third and fourth convocation remember this reasonable, calm, and principled man. Please tell us, such situations have taken place on various committees. At the Committee on Social Policy there was a time when most of the people were in BUT, and Vasil Georgievic Hara was looking for a common language of some kind, in terms of, you know, sometimes you can give up in some way. Were there attempts on your part, or were there attempts on the part of Ukraine’s national deputies by the majority to find understanding? Because it's not that simple. It's a committee, it's a complicated job, every Ukrainian national MP -- an individual, he wants to be counted with. Were there attempts informally to communicate with Andrey Vitaliovich so as not to lead the matter to the decision of the session?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u11	Thank you very much, Jaroslav, for asking. I mean, it's already been repeated. This was also the case in the fifth vocation, when we, for Shevchenk’s sake and his conduct, when we discussed his conduct in closed sessions, offered him three times, and even once Chevchenko had written to apologize to all his colleagues for his actions. But he probably didn’t like the experience, and he doesn’t take it into account. So the sixth call was the same, there were discussions, there were discussions, but unfortunately Mr. Shevchenko didn't want to communicate in any way within the framework of the Supreme Council Committee Act with his colleagues. And those who are protecting him now are more likely to be those people who live by the principle of a circled bond. They know he's breaking the law, they know the real state of things on the committee, but unfortunately they don't want to accept the truth, they don't want to accept reality. They live in a virtual world. Thank them so much for being like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u12	Microphone, complete the answer to the question. Basil Potapov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u13	I give the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u14	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u15	First of all, I would like to remind you that when Shevchenk's candidacy was put forward, the opposition did not want to vote for her and was very critical of her. Our faction cast 100 percent for Shevchenk. Sadly, Shevchenko did not vindicate our hope. We hoped that he would be objective, honest, and orderly. But I have a different question, and it's now the idea that you're initiating his resignation, wanting to take over as chairman of the committee. I want you to publicly confirm now that the faction of the Party of the Regions does not claim to be the head of the committee. This is a faction position, and let the faction pick out a candidature that will be honest and orderly to perform this function, because this is a very important function, the head of the Freedom of Word Committee. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u16	Yes, thank you very much, Alexander. I confirm that there is a decision of the majority of the committee, the majority of which represents the majority in Parliament. We state officially that our position is as follows: the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information should be a representative of the opposition. And none of us are going to vote on this committee. And as for your information, who voted for Shevchenk after Herman left the committee, it was indeed: BUT did not vote for his colleague, but did vote for the Party of the Regions. So you know what? When you didn't vote for him, and now you're supporting him, it's just your cynical incoherence, your venerable buttocks.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u17	Mankovsky, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u18	Please pass the word to John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u19	Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u20	Thank you. I'm very proud of you, Olena Anatolyevno. I have two questions. The first question is, in principle, and questions and support, that the committee has decided to leave the committee head behind, is a European norm. And I fully support your position. And the second moment is purely professional: please tell me, if possible, how much of the committee's approximately sessions were torn down by the head of the Shevchenko Committee. That's the first one. And secondly, were these meetings intended to address any problems related to freedom of speech, namely, the question of fulfilling our obligations to the Council of Europe, to other organizations, in order to remove the issue of politics and to become a professional?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u21	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, for asking. I want to say that it was Shevchenko who tore up the meeting, that would be half-truth, because it was by his attitude toward the colleagues who were boycotting that were actually boycotting the meeting. I'll tell you when questions were asked about a committee that was only convenient to Mr. Shevchenk and the questions that the deputies were asking were so, and the MPs were offended by this attitude of the head towards their activities, including the bills. I have several agendas for those meetings that were not held: December 21, December 14, December 7, December 1, November 18, 17. These are just the order of the day of those meetings that were not held in November and December. It was also in September, similar in October and November. So, Your Honor, Mr. Shevchenko, I'd like to address you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u22	Time's up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u23	So I want to address my colleague, Mr. Shevchenk, whom I have repeatedly made unofficial contact with. Andrew Vitaliovich, be true to yourself and not be misled by society and journalists. The leaders, experts, and journalists are well aware of what you did during the fifth call and the sixth call on the committee. When you deliberately censored and illustrated complaints coming to the committee. When it was convenient for you to carry them, and when it was not convenient for you to have a friendly relationship with your superiors.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u24	Thank you. Thank you, Olena Anatoly, thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues! Sit down, that's it. I now invite the chairman of the committee, Andrew Shevchenk, to the rostrum. Please, Andrew Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Good health to all, I welcome you all to the festivals! Today we meet the Old New Year. Today is another holiday: on this very day exactly a year as we approved the Public Information Act, day after day. And 408 members of all five factions voted in favour of the law that called for a citizen to become a full - fledged host in the country. Judging by what's going on in the hall right now, this year we're not getting any better. You know, the secretariat of our committee has prepared a report for me. We've worked with these people for 5.5 years, and I'm very grateful for that. But I think I'm going to use the time I have a little bit different. You know, I think that if we talk frankly about the situation of freedom of speech in Ukraine, we really need a resignation or resignation today, not just the committee heads, but the entire committee or the entire parliament. Because let’s be honest that we in Ukraine today cannot guarantee freedom of speech. What is the status of Ukrainian journalism today? It's fear, it's humiliation, it's salesmanship, it's cynicism, it's reporters who are afraid to do their job honestly and conscientiously. It's a country that's dropped in international freedom of speech in the last two years. This is a country that is now called a hybrid country: a transition between a troubled democracy and a dictatorship. Some are now criticizing journalism for the fact that there is no truth and that there is censorship, and that is indeed, others are criticizing journalism for the fact that there is fornication and an immoral situation, and that is also a lot of truth. But why is that? Because, on the one hand, there is authority with all its prosecutors, with all the administrative resources that pressure the owners, pressure on journalists, and, on the other hand, money bags. It's been a problem for years. But what we're seeing right now is the problem has reached its climax. And, you know, I'm going to say that if this is the question of calling off the head of the committee, it's a committee that's tasked with protecting freedom of speech, then in this situation, I'm going to take the black mark from power as recognition of what we've been doing right. You know, before I came to Parliament, I worked on television, and the highest professional prize on television, it's called teletriumph. I think if there's a resignation, I'm going to personally consider it a fourth teletriumf to be a contribution to the fact that together we've tried to fight for freedom of speech in this country. Now, you know, I came to Parliament for the first time 17 years ago, I worked in a press bed, nine years ago I was standing here for the first time when I was showing "darks." These were the days of President Kuchma and Prime Minister Yanukovic. You know, this whole time, I've never seen personnel issues on the committee's head being dealt with in a way that's not once. I don't want to burden us with legal details, it's been said a lot, but I'll give you two facts. First. Half an hour ago, we were finally given that decree, which we are about to vote for. Look at the registration number and the January 13 date, today. What did we vote for yesterday? What question was included in the agenda yesterday if the decision is registered only today? That's another fact. Open the Rules and the Committees Act. Article 43 clearly describes the order: The regulatory committee, the ruling, is given by the regulatory committee. I am now addressing the head of the Regulatory Committee of Vladimir Makeenka. Did the committee meet, or did you make a decision to call off your head? I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litvin. You were instructing the regulatory committee to consider the matter. Is Your Order Followed? I am addressing Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, a member of the regulatory committee. Is that an insult to you when the matter is thus resolved in the course of a regulatory committee? And now, you know, let's ask a simple question: why is this happening, why is this happening? Maybe it's the personal ambition of one person who wants to run a committee a few months before the election? Why, then, is it the largest faction of the Ukrainian Parliament? Why is the parliament of a 46 million countries, instead of dealing with the real problems that exist in the country, wasting time on that? Why is this happening? Could there be another reason? Is there really a committee for freedom of speech? Maybe someone doesn't agree that there's a few cabinets left in Ukraine where they're not appointed for the President's dismissal, but in another way? Maybe someone wants to finally show that there are no rules here in Parliament and you can create anything, someone wants to shut the mouth of the Freedom of Word Committee? It won't work! Ukraine was and will always be a country where there is much freedom and where freedom will always prevail. I'm going to add three more things: about myself, about the committee, and about Parliament -- to be completed. It's about me. I'll just say it. You know, not everyone can buy a job and not everyone can be intimidated by retirement. In some cases, things happen the other way around. And you know, wherever I am in a life where I don't work, whether in politics or in public service, freedom of speech will always be my priority. My father was mentioned here, and I think he's watching on TV what's going on, along with my grandmother, her birthday today, she's 86 years old. I'm so glad you remembered. For our family, this is a family mission. And wherever I work, everything about freedom of speech, everything about the right of a person to be himself, to think freely, will always be a priority for me. It's about our committee. You know, we have a good committee. Small, 11 people, all in the palm of your hand. We have all the committee meetings open-ended. So any person on the street can come and take part in a meeting. The other one. We don't give votes to each other. We don't have a vote. Everyone votes for themselves. We have a public council. You know, we've approved serious, important questions. Hundreds of questions over the past two years. 96 legislative initiatives came from me personally. There are very worthy results. The Public Information Act, the Information Act, the anti-smoking law. It's about how we banned tobacco advertising. I am immensely proud of the fact that in my day the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko has entrusted me to represent our team on this committee. I hope that I have lived up to at least some of the expectations of the faction and of all those people for whom freedom of speech does not make a sound. I am also extremely grateful to the faction for the support I am seeing right now. It's very important to me. And I am very grateful for being able to support me today. I am also grateful to our colleagues for their opposition from the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I think that's an example of how we can fight for a country today in elections and in the future after our victory. I'm also grateful to the other factions -- the Reforms for the Future factions -- and I hope to the other factions who don't play what's happening today. Finally about Parliament. We understand that this is not about the name of the committee head. This is about the principles that the Ukrainian Parliament is working on. In an hour, we'll be singing our national national anthem. When we do that, let's think about what thoughts we went with. With what thoughts did we go to politics? For what? How did we imagine Parliament at that time? Will this be the Parliament where you know, friends of all things, and enemies of the law? I think we had different ideas about politics and our role in it. We thought it would be a place where there would always be rules, where there would be justice, where there would be respect for one another, regardless of who with which party ticket, where they would vote by conscience, not by revenge from one person. I think we imagined that Parliament would be the place where we really stand for human rights, who wouldn't be sitting at the Bank or in Kabmin in Gruszewski, the work of the people who are here to defend the rights of the citizen. I think we imagined that Parliament would be an example of how to behave, how to respect others, and how to care for the country. I am absolutely sure that Ukraine will have such a parliament. I am absolutely sure that only with such a parliament will we be able to build a just and successful Ukraine. I'm sure we can do that. Thank you for your support. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Andrew Shevchenk's question. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Andrey Parubius, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u27	Mr. Andrey, our faction, all the people who are in the faction today in the Ukrainian positions that have come to Parliament, we will support you in this situation with all the forces that we have, where we have the opportunity. I'd like to ask you, do you think, is that the question that stands in the agenda today, whether it's a question of political settlement or whether it's a question that has any subtext that is professional? And isn't that what the authorities are trying to do today in Parliament to completely eliminate the impact of opposition to freedom of speech in our country, is that not a continuation of the repression and apes of Russia after the destruction of freedom of speech in our country? Thank you, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u28	You know, I think there are two main reasons. One of them, personal, I've already told you. But I think what's important to us today is the political context. Because the question that we're discussing right now is, well, it's not in space. We have a very responsible parliamentary election this year. I think we all understand the importance of a committee on freedom of speech. You can look at the order of the day of our committee for at least the last 3-4 months that the questions are there. It's censorship, whether it's in the newspaper "Today," or on channel "1+1," it's the pressure of journalists, it's the killing of journalists, which unfortunately is happening right now. I think there are certain people who may not be set up by the active position of the committee. But I'm going to say another important thing. You know, we've been able to do professional things about freedom of speech, always speaking as the only team, we've done it. At the last meeting yesterday, there was a quorum, everyone was working, and we all voted unanimously, starting with the representatives of the Party of Regions and ending with representatives of yours, Andrew, factions. I think that's how this committee should work and that's how other issues should work. Professional matters should be considered professionally and conscientiously. What's going on right now is trying to shut that committee's mouth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u29	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u30	Mr. Andrew, well, you're cute as a young man, as a politician, as a journalist, to say the least. But I have a question for you. Look, there's an opposition right now, as if they're protecting you, they're not protecting you, it's just a pyar. I have a question: why, when our political power fully supported you, did these people who are standing here right now not want to see you as chairman of the committee? Did they know that you could not handle the position, or were there other reasons, or did they want another candidate? Answer: Why, then, did your colleagues not support you? And the second question, Mr. Andrew. We will not, indeed, claim to be the head of the committee of our faction. I have a question: Who do you see from the opposition to this very important position of head of the committee? Thank you for your answers and wish you success in the next political field.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u31	Please. Dear colleagues, let us answer the questions, dear colleagues. Please, Andrew Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u32	I think we should look, not for sympathy and trust in each other, but for the sympathy and trust of the people who sent us here to work. I'll just tell you about the pear. I think it's not just a pianist, it's cynicism to explain what's happening in the hall now, when the initiators do it, with some other motive. The motives are very simple, they're obvious to everyone -- political motive and personal. And everything else is words, it's cynicism and it's pear. As for our position in support of the faction, I'll say I'm proud to be part of this team. In the work of the committee, we have always felt the full support of our team, and we have always acted unanimously. This is not the priority of Shevchenka, Abdulina, Ukolova or Olena Kondratjuk, who work on this committee, this is the priority of our political power. We believe that everyone in this country has the right to think freely, to speak freely.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u33	Microphone, please. Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u34	Dear Andrei Vitalievich, please tell me you just said there are words, there are facts, I'm on the facts. Please tell me, why did you, living in Kiev and having an apartment in the center until last year, keep an MP's room at a hotel that costs 800 bracelets per day, multiply by 5 years and 365 days? That's the first question. Second question. Do you remember the commemorative meeting of the committee that gave you the management of the Supreme Council an account of 780,000 redundancies of overexpenditure for telephone calls from your landline phone? And the third moment. Why did you, after giving up your term of office in the fifth term, use a public car for another month, knowing you didn't have that kind of authority? Why do you keep deceiving voters and journalists as a completely dishonest, unprincipled person?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u35	Well, I haven't heard in this list my attitude towards gas agreements and the International Monetary Fund's loans. () [[Applause]] I understand that the transition to personality means clearly that there are no other arguments. I'll make it very simple. On the Committee of Freedoms, 11 people represent the Party of Regions, we have one representative of the Communist Party. If you want to lead this committee, which prevents you from working on it right now, to collect a quorum, not, as you said, to advertise a boycott to a committee meeting? Has anyone heard of it from a month to month? In the Party of Regions, unfortunately, there are deputies who have been to four committee meetings in two years. So you might want to stop boycotting these meetings and not give them away, come or not, but work? I think that might be the point. I think that, well, I think the very fact of such a discussion is totally humiliating the Supreme Council Hall right now. I think these are things that need to be found, if necessary, in the regulatory committee. And everything else should not be replaced now by talking and seeking justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u36	Thank you, Andrey Vitalyovich. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Dear colleagues, if you have any factions to express your attitude at any time, please. Because it takes 30 minutes to consider the matter, one minute at a time. Please! One minute at a time. Please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u37	Viacheslav Kirilenko, NUNS faction, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters, everyone understands what's going on here. Most of them want to take away their freedom of speech committee before the parliamentary elections in order to take this very freedom of speech and destroy it. And he uses all sorts of excuses to do that. I assure you that by taking this committee in opposition, most will never vote before the elections themselves in order to elect an opposition representative to head the Committee on Freedom of Speech. This is a debate over freedom of speech. First. This is a debate over Andrew Shevchenk, since Shevchenko is a professional and Ukrainian. Neither the first nor the second governing authority is in control; they are fighting professionalism, and they are fighting Ukraine, and that is why they are doing this. And thirdly, the appetites of the majority will not decrease. An appetite comes when you eat. They'll be taking and taking these opposition committees. They're still against a lot of things. The opposition has been held since tens of committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u38	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u39	and they will take these committees away until they are drowned out of office, out of money and out of office.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u40	Thank you. Who's going to be the fatherland faction? Sergei Sas, please. Then a group called Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u41	Thank you. Sergey Sas, faction of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, the initiator of the proposal spoke here of everything as in the market, but she did not speak of just one decision taken by the committee. So I'm saying, when I analyzed the documents we received yesterday, it was that the committee had not made any decisions regarding the appeal of the committee's head. Here's a transcript of this committee that was distributed. The decision was made in the "Variance" and the "Variance" decision is not made. Take the Rules, read them. When the Supreme Council is working on the various issues, it's just a matter of discussion. Next. Dear colleagues! He decided to express his mistrust to the committee head of Shevchenk and to admit it. It's a job. The issue of mistrust and resignation is not, from a legal point of view, authentic. There is no proposal to be made by the committee to call off the committee head. It says here: To contact the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, in accordance with article 43 of the Rules, to conduct a procedure for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u42	Finish up, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u43	Thank you. What a regular committee is to consider. This is a piece of paper from the regulatory committee. The Committee had not considered the matter because the committee had not considered it. Here is MacKeenko, and let him say it, which means whether the committee has considered the matter. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u44	Thank you. Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u45	Honorable colleagues, respected citizens, distinguished national MPs! The MP's "Reforms for the Future" group disagrees with the methods of solving the exact issue that we talked about today. We stressed yesterday from this rostrum that this issue was not included in the procedure for its consideration at the meeting of the Standing Committee. Nothing's changed. Today, we all received a document highlighting my colleague, our colleague, Sas. I have not seen such a meeting personally as a member of the Regulatory Committee, and therefore I do not understand what is going on. Unfortunately, we have to say that no conclusions have been reached, and not only are the norms being violated, but also the activities established in Parliament's practice, to which the committee heads are appointed by appropriate procedure, which is contrary not only to the Ukrainian Rules Act, but also to practice. Well, you may find it strange to see two small MP factions today dominated and not ruled yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u46	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u47	They intertwine to ask or decide who is the head. The MPs are coming out of this process. We're not going to support Andrew Shevchenk's shooting. We will not participate in this process, so you will not see our voices.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u48	Thank you. Now. Who's it gonna be? Oleg Zarubinski, please. Then Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! I took the floor to disprove one speculation that has been happening here, and I have not once heard it, including on the part of my distinguished colleagues, on the grounds that most will never vote for the opposition to head this committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] I cannot say for all my colleagues, but I am authorized to say by the faction of the People's Party that we are convinced that the chairmanship of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information should be a representative of the opposition. And that's why it's speculation to talk about that there's not going to be a run for office that the opposition is going to give. We vote -- I'm talking about the People's Party faction -- we vote in favour only if it's submitted by the opposition. It must be a representative of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u50	Jaroslav Suhi, please. From the Communist faction will there be a performance?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u51	I was the national deputy of Ukraine who mentioned Vitalia Shevchenk, whom I knew a long time ago, and here I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u52	Please! Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please speak. No sound? Well, I work here. Well, I beg you, please, dear fellows, fear God!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I especially address those to whom. Give medical attention to the husband, and after the trauma to his head, he will be permanently bruised. I am addressing Ukrainian national deputies who know what the position of head of the committee is. Andrija Vitaliyovich, we had a difficult situation at the Social Policy Committee because most of them were from your faction. And Basil Georgiyovich Hara was looking for ways of understanding. I didn't ask any questions. In your speech today, you have shown once again: Your honor, and you have not reached that position. So, listen, instead of being a self-critical judge, what did we hear from you here? Declarations, freedom of speech. And you don't think it's too immodest: Andrew Shevchenka as a guarantor of freedom of speech in Ukraine. And one more thing. You know, people are invited to the committee: agents, ministries, departments. Here they come to the committee meeting -- the committee didn't happen once, it didn't happen two. What authority this committee will then have before it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u54	Finish up, please. From the Communist faction will there be a performance? No, they refuse. Honorable national MPs, distinguished national MPs, discussion and consideration of the matter have been completed. I'll say my point of view. I am sorry that this is happening because I have been very active in supporting the position not only of the opposition but of Andrew Shevchenko himself. And he repeatedly asked and appealed to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council on several occasions so that he might find incentives to assemble and hold a committee meeting because he was suffering from this problem. The slogans are all correct, but the movement in the implementation of these slogans, unfortunately, we didn't have them. That's why I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of Shevchenk Andrija Vitaliyovich from the post of head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. [[Registration number 9698]] Please identify yourself. [[11:40:18]] For 245 Decision taken. By factions, please: The Party of Regions – 187, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – one, "The People's Party – 20, "non-factional" – ten. Ladies and gentlemen, we must proceed. Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the representatives of the minority who are here. We ask you to run for office as Head of the Freedom Committee. If you propose to do so today, we will support the faction's vote in favour of your candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u56	Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the majority, it is unfortunate that we have not heard a speech today by the director of the regulatory committee, who would really answer the questions that our faction has asked today. But what happened happened. We had an operational faction here, right in the hall, after the Conciliation Council. Indeed, on the Conciliation Council, we were invited to apply from the faction for this office, as head of the Committee on Freedom of Conscience. Freedom of speech, I apologize. But unfortunately, for most people the faction has not changed. Article 83 therefore provides that the office is to be offered. It's coming up. is proposed by that candidate from the faction that was before the withdrawal. That's why we're proposing a bid from our faction, Andrew Shevchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the faction to form a draft decree. And I think after we've exhausted these issues, we'll also vote for your proposal. But I would ask you to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please calm down! We are continuing our consideration of the draft Law on the characteristics of the formation of a state-owned shareholding association for rail transport in general use. [[Registration number 9337]] Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say the following. The committee requests that Bill 9337 and Bill 9377 be re-read for the purpose of re-reading, so that the committee, along with the Chief Legal Authority and other legislators, can eliminate the disagreements that arose yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u60	Since some of the amendments were taken into account yesterday, a part that was not included in this law began to drift away, as it were. In this regard, these two bills need to be rescheduled in order to be redrafted. Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! It was obvious to everyone in the state that the attempt is simply to disperse the railway, all the businesses that are included in hospitals, clinics, rest bases, sanatoriums, and everything else, to put them in their pockets. With that, it's obvious. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the question is that if we consider the amendments now to the end, on second reading, the Rules require changes only to articles that have not been amended. So let's maybe take a look at it to the end, and obviously, I thank you that the committee realized that the law should be sent back to the second reading, that we immediately proposed, we said yesterday that we hit a stand that had gone far into it, that it would cause the worst disturbance in society, because we have nothing left but trumpets, land and railways. The railway has already been set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u62	Klukkowski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u63	Thank you, Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I think it's a huge victory of common sense that we have refused to break this bill, which is disgraceful to the Ukrainian Parliament, is simply a testimony to the state of legislative activity in which the Ukrainian Supreme Council is located. But I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to announce for the transcript the purpose for which he is going to read again. Not just because the various amendments have been voted on or not voted on, but please see the comments made by the Chief Legal Authority, remember what was said yesterday, set a goal: to bring them into line with the Civil Code and the Master Code. Because that's how you break the legal field of Ukraine, it means turning into a state that I want to, that's awesome.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u64	Thank you. Vladimir Caplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u65	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, I sincerely thank you, on behalf of the MP's Reform for the Future, for showing common sense in our Parliamentary Hall. Yesterday we approached representatives of all political parties from the group: The Party of the Regions, the Communist Party, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, the People's Self-Defense Party, the People's Party, to withdraw this bill and send it back to read again, only because 46 million Ukrainians in the event of the adoption of the law, as it is predicted today, will be able to buy only a ticket to a shopping car for their wages. This is a major crime in front of the state. And that's why I'm grateful and low in favour of all of you, all of us Ukrainians, for standing up for the Crucifixion in this matter and for not doing such important and bad things in the light of the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u66	Dear National Deputies! Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, Peter Cibenko. For this document, we did not vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Moreover, I want to say that yesterday's first proposal was made by our colleague Lechchenk, who suggested that one of the amendments be made for confirmation. So I want to talk to my colleague, who just spoke, who repeatedly called on us to support some adjustments yesterday. So what I'm saying is, if you hadn't voted for this amendment in due course, it wouldn't have been, and then you started calling us to justice. You know, when it comes to privatization, the notion of justice here is extremely relative, because privatization can't be national or just, it just needs to be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all speeches show that we have a common understanding of the need to introduce this law to begin with in accordance with a valid legislative framework, starting with the Constitution of Ukraine. And I am here fully supporting Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski with one statement that this is not the Supreme Council, but this is a bill that we have received from the executive branch. And now it should be a document that meets the fundamental principles of law in Ukraine. So I'm voting on the proposal of a committee to re-read the draft Law on the Specificities of the Establishment of a State Shareholder Association for the General Use of Rail Transport. Please vote. [[11:49:25]] For 246 Decision taken. Similarly, honourable colleagues, a proposal is made to re-read the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Rail Transport. [[on the delimitation of the functions of the public and commercial administration of the industry]] [[Registration number 9337]] For the second reading again. 9377. Please vote. [[11:50:01]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. By factions, please: Region Party – 188, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 3, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 21, National Party – 20, non-factional – 13. The draft Law on the State Privatization Programme is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9509]] The rapporteur is the head of the Economic Policy Committee Committee, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Parliament is being reviewed by the State Privatization Program, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The committee’s second reading included 109 suggestions from the national deputies. Of these, 44 are rejected, and another 65 are counted in whole or in part. Absolutely all the proposals have been carefully worked out, agreed with the State Property Fund, and there are appropriate justifications for each of them in the committee. The main mass of the rejected suggestions is to reject the first reading. Other suggestions make practical application more difficult and worse. The main change to the program proposed by the Committee and supported by the Maintenance Fund is that it will be calculated for three years: from 2012 to 2014. Not for four, as previously suggested. Other changes detail and improve the position of the State Privatization Program. In general, the committee called for the creation of conditions to ensure the optimization of the public sector of the economy. As for the observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's legal administration, they are considered in committee and generally not supported, since most of them are of a general nature, without specific proposals that the committee could respond to. I would like to add that the committee considered the amendments quite objectively. I want to say, as an example, that out of the 22 amendments I made to the program, four are not included. I will insist on their voting and confirmation in the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u70	Thank you. So, let's go to the repairs now, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u72	Korj - Amendment 7. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. Marmazov – 10 amendments. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u73	Thank you. This is not really an amendment, but the principle of our Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council for the Control of Privatization. Well, in general, the program is better suited to the intentions, not the program. And we have a fundamental observation that there are no sectoral features of privatization in the programme, which, of course, should have been presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. It's not the economic committee's fault. It's the Cabinet of Ministers' fault. Well, in particular. Well, what should be the ownership structure in TEK, what should be the ownership structure in transport, in the defence industry, in JECK and so on and so forth? What the hell are we going to do? What's more, it was in the old program. Not here. I think it's a big failure in the current programme. Therefore, our faction will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u74	Alexander Mikolaiovich, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u75	Well, it's a general position, it doesn't apply to a specific amendment. We rejected it essentially because it wasn't clearly defined in the text. The 10th amendment, if you say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u76	Then I put it to the vote for regularity, 10 amendments. [[11:54:03]] For-21 Correction not supported. 15th Amendment, Eugene Marmazov, do you insist on it? Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u77	Well, here's the principle question. The fact that the controlling package of shares is proposed in the new programme is that where the State has a share, it has a share of 60 per cent. But here's the stock control package that used to be on the program, it was set at 50, 25 plus one share. And it turns out that now we're going to privatize enterprises where the stock control package is required for 60 per cent. We have privatized for 10 years, leaving 50 per cent behind the State. In fact, a large number of public enterprises will now be exposed to a simplified system of privatization. So I'm making an offer to leave 50, 25 plus one share.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u78	Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u79	Well, this one, on the first reading, this rule corresponds to 41 articles of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. And in order not to do different treatments of the control packet, we've established this rule in accordance with this law, and we've supported the government's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u80	Puts to the vote 15 amendments. [[11:55:48]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Now the 35th Amendment, Alexander Bondar. That was the amendment you were talking about, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u81	35th, I won't insist on confirmation. I'll insist on the next one. I'll tell you. I'm missing this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u82	Let's move on. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u83	As far as I know, 43rd, Corge will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u84	43rd, Corge insists? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u85	He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u86	He insists. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u87	Alexander Nikolaevich, there is a request in this context to consider. But to put to the vote or my amendment, or all text that follows my amendment, what is recorded after my amendment, and to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u88	Well, the committee supports, deletes a paragraph that starts with "preservation of influence" and ends with "on stock exchanges." This means that it is supported by the committee to delete this paragraph from the tex.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u89	So, we need to vote on this amendment, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u90	Yes, it has to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, this is the 23rd amendment to this content, 43rd, I'm sorry. "The preservation of the influence of the state as a result of the consolidation in the state property of the controlling stock. The rest of the stock is sold with small bags on stock exchanges." The committee turned her down. The committee has rejected, and should be voted down, the committee is proposing the removal of this position. Please vote. [[11:57:41]] For 235 Decision taken, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u92	58th, Korja too.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u93	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u94	58th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u95	58th?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u96	Because he insists, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u97	58th, Corge, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u98	Alexander Nikolayevich, there is a proposal in the last paragraph of "persons who are profiled persons to the persons listed" to replace by text: "persons who are directly or indirectly controlled by the persons mentioned above".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u99	Alexander Mikolaiovich, does the committee support you?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u100	Yeah, yeah, we don't deny it, because it's textually different.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u101	I'm putting to the vote the amendment just made by national deputy Corge. Please vote. [[11:58:35]] For 233 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u102	My 59th, I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u103	59th Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u104	Amendment 59 specifies what state ownership is about when legal persons with more than 20 percent of state ownership are not allowed. Throughout the history of privatization, this was used only in relation to Ukrainian state property. In recent times, the fund has begun to use this for foreign nations. I don't think that's right, and I'm going to make it clear in the text of "Ukrainian state property." Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u105	So can it say, "the state property of Ukraine"?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u106	Yes, or "the state property of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, are you clear on that? I'm voting on this 59 amendment. Please vote. [[11:59:39]] For-41 Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u108	Ninety-nine is my fix.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u109	99th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u110	92th, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u111	92nd. Let's go back to 92.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u112	92nd. We have control functions in the Committee's Rules of Procedure, except for the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization, on the Committee of the Supreme Council, to which these issues belong, namely, the Economic Policy Committee. This is in line with the standard. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? Simply conform to the Rules. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 92. Please vote. [[12:00:37]] For-7. Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u114	It's all gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u115	And the 99th?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u116	No, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on the State Privatization Programme is being put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:01:14]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian privatisation laws on the implementation of the State Privatisation Programme 2011-2014 is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9520]] The reporter again is Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The committee’s second reading was attended by 177 proposals from national deputies, 126 of which were rejected by other proposals in whole or in part. Absolutely all the proposals have been carefully worked out, agreed with the Maintenance Fund, and each of them has an appropriate basis on the committee. The main mass of the rejected suggestions is to reject the first reading. Other proposals complicate the application of the law in practice and go beyond the concept of a project. The committee also takes into account the legal and technical comments on the paragraphs, parts of the bill***. I would like to add that more than 100 amendments were made to Korž Paul Petrovich, of the 177 amendments made by the national deputy. I have some adjustments that he's going to insist on. I'd like to focus on them so that I don't waste too much time. There are also 3 or 4 of my amendments that I want to insist on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u119	So let's give Korja what adjustments are we going to make? What numbers?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u120	Well, first one goes to my 5th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u121	5th? Let's do a 5 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u122	My amendment refers to the fact that there has always been a rule in the State Privatization Programme that it works before the adoption of another State Privatization Program, and that has been the norm. The Cabinet of Ministers is now proposing to introduce another rule that it is operating before the State Privatization Program. I believe that the implementation of the national programme is subjective and is not known when it will be implemented, so I ask that you introduce a standard that has been in place for all years of privatization, i.e. before the adoption of the next State Privatisation Programme. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the vote is amended as follows: 5. Please vote. [[12:03:46]] For-13. Correction not supported. Next?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u124	21st Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u125	Next Korya 6 amendment, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u126	21st.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u127	21st, right? Let's make 21 amendments. Please, Corja's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u128	Alexander Nikolayevich, I insist on that paragraph, on the amendment, on that text, from putting to the vote. It concerns the issue of patents on industrial design or technological documentation. And in this context, if we fully accept it, it will not violate the technology of this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u129	Does the committee support this?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u130	The committee does not object to this amendment. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u131	Amendment 21 shall be put to the vote to take account of it. Please vote. [[12:04:56]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet the vote on the motion to return to the amendment. Please focus, there's not much left to do! [[12:05:20]] For 238. We're back. I'll bet you 21 amendments. Please vote. [[12:05:37]] For 237 Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u132	My 29th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u133	29th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u134	29th Amendment. Proposals are made for the preservation of control by the Supreme Council in respect of public property items that are listed for privatisation. It reads: "Legal persons who are included in the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization may be subject to merger, merger, division, conversion, separation or liquidation only after they have been excluded from the listed list." This is the rule of law for MPs, I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u135	Honorable National MPs, 29 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[12:06:35]] For-31 No correction supported. Next up, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u136	Well, they say 23, but I don't remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u137	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u138	23rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u139	23rd? Let's go to 23. This is Corge, 23rd. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u140	Hydropower plants, add the word "and nuclear power plants."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u141	Is the amendment understood? I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. Please vote. [[12:07:17]] For 238. Correction accepted. 43 revisions. National Deputy Corge, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u142	The proposed group “B”, where there are., uses terms, I suggest, well, relationships with terms such as “beneficial mines”, “cadres”, to exclude for the legal purity of the experiment reference to group “B” objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u143	Well, don't mind, the committee doesn't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u144	The committee does not object to the support of such an amendment. I'll bet the vote on amendment 43. Please vote. [[12:08:10]] For 240 Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u145	51st, Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u146	Amendment 51. Korja's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u147	"People who have the right to an indirect. it is controlled by persons” – it is relevant as defined in paragraphs 2 and 5 of the third article. I propose to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u148	What position does the committee take?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u149	The committee doesn't object.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u150	He doesn't mind. I'll bet the vote on amendment 51. Please vote. [[12:08:59]] For 241 Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u151	113th, my amendment. Please confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u152	52nd. Please, Corja's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u153	Well, Amendment 52 complements the 51st: "they can't be buyers of such, well, such persons who are profiled in this part of the person." Can I have your back, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u154	The committee doesn't mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u155	In principle, this is a repetition of the content that we have already voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u156	Well, with the insistence, I'm putting this amendment to the vote, please vote. [[12:09:50]] For 241 Correction accepted. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u157	113 is mine. 113th is my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u158	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u159	In recent times, the holding fund has been conducting competitions mainly with one participant. I suggest that the contests should be held no less than with two participants, it will create competition, it will increase budget revenue. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u160	There is a vote of 113 amendments. Please vote. [[12:10:35]] For-24 No correction supported. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u161	130th Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u162	130, Corge's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u163	129th, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u164	129th, Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u165	Oh, 129 is mine, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u166	Please, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u167	I'm sorry, a lot of amendments. I propose in this amendment that we do not reduce the deadline for familiarizing ourselves with the subjects of privatization during the competition. The government is now proposing to reduce it to 30 to 45 days. The argument is that for such a period it is not that Western, even Russian investors will not be able to get to know the object. And this puts the conditions of competition in a situation where only Ukrainian legal persons can participate. This standard is very dangerous for Western investment, including Russian investment. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u168	The vote is amended as follows: 129. Please vote. [[12:11:57]] For-13. Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u169	155th, Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u170	You don't need a 130-year-old Korja then, do you?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u171	No, no, it's not mine, it's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u172	Oh, 159th, yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u173	155th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u174	155th, please. Korja's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u175	The number "not less than 0.1 percent" is replaced by "10 percent". At this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u176	0.1 percent by 10 is replaced. We don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u177	Well, that's 155, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u178	Yeah, yeah, 155th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u179	There is 155 amendments to the vote. Please vote. [[12:12:43]] For 247 Correction accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u180	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and in the end positions, we've technically failed to consider Osika's amendment, and he's going to announce it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u181	Please, Sergey Osika, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u182	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, a technical overlay came out. This refers to paragraph 5 of the Final Provisions, the left column, or paragraph 6 of the right column, which refers to legislative acts that fail to be valid in connection with the adoption of this law. I propose to add to this as the third paragraph the following words: "Sections 90, 143, 325, 329 of Chapter XXVI of Appendix to Act No. 574-VI of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." [[since 2009, No8, page 105]] Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u183	Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u184	The committee supports this correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the amendment of Sergio Osika, supported by the committee, the proposal for the adoption of a second-reading law and, in general, as a law specifying Sergio Osika, supported by the committee. Please vote. Registration number 9520. [[12:14:24]] For 246 The law is passed. Thank you. I was following the amendments that we said we had already voted on. Dear colleagues, the law is passed. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Implementation Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the NATO Organization of Material and Technical Security and Services on the Elimination of Firearms and Light Weapons, Conventional Ammunition and Anti-Personnel Mines of PFM-1 type is under consideration. The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Can we vote now? [[12:15:15.]] For 232 Decision taken. Is there a need to report this document? None. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Implementation Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the NATO Organization of Material and Technical Security and Services on the Elimination of Firearms and Light Weapons, Conventional Ammunition and Anti-Personnel Mines of the Type PFM-1. Please vote. [[12:15:57]] For 256 The law is passed. It is announced for consideration of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on Air Connection. The documents are all back-to-back, the committee believes that this agreement can be ratified, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that the agreement can be ratified. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Portuguese Republic on Air Connection. [[Registration number 0243]] Please vote. [[12:16:47]] For 282 The law is passed. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Joint Control of Persons, Means of Transport and Goods at the Ukrainian-Russian State Border is under review. [[Registration number 0244]] The committee believes that the agreement can and should be ratified. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Joint Control of Persons, Means of Transport and Goods at the Ukrainian-Russian State Border. [[Registration number 0244]] Please vote. [[12:17:55]] For 274 The law is passed. Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, please. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision to postpone the entry into force of the law, now Adam Ivanovich will talk about it. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to include in the agenda and to consider today the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening liability for infringements of personal data protection legislation" on the transfer of the deadline for entry into force. Here we have two bills 9624, 9624-1. The point is that according to the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, this law should be in force as of 1 January 2012. The law is in force, but there are no legal acts, and the vast army of those entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs, who are affected by this law, will suffer materially. So there is a proposal today to consider this law, and the drafters propose to postpone until 1 July. I'm asking you to put it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u187	I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration today of the Act amending the Final Provisions of the Law of Ukraine "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine to increase the liability for violations of personal data protection legislation" on the transfer of the deadline for entry into force. [[Registration numbers 9624, 9624-1]] Please vote. [[12:19:58]] For 276 Decision taken. There is a proposal to consider these bills in a simplified manner. Please be supportive. [[12:20:18]] For 239. Offer supported. According to the first draft of the bill, Xenius Leppin reports, the second is to prepare for Jojik. [[9624]] Please, Xenia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u188	Xenya Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, this Personal Data Protection Act has become a classic situation when you want to do what you want, as always. Of course, we all understand that personal data must be protected, and I have always been a supporter of it. But what kind of databases need real protection, observation, and so forth? For example, the databases of our passports. For example, the tax database and so on. But what has resulted from this law and the Law on the Application of Responsibility? It turns out that every private entrepreneur with two employees is already subject to this law. He should already register the so-called database, although, if you'll excuse me, two cards for two hired employees, well, it's not supposed to be a database. In addition, anything relating to personal data that is collected at least for work is regulated by the Labour Code. It is regulated in the same way as dealing with this information, and it does not apply to the regulation provided for by the Personal Data Protection Act. What was the result? As a result, at the end of the year, more than three million economic operators sent information to the Ministry of Justice about their small short records to two or three employees. And so this white noise is hidden by large databases that really need to be monitored and where we need to protect our personal data. All of this is due, unfortunately, to the fact that there was no qualitative definition of what the database, the personal data that applied to it, or what did not apply. No legal acts were prepared. Because it was only before the new year that the Ministry of Justice provided an explanation, and there are great questions to this explanation. And the relevant decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, the relevant rules for dealing with databases have never been approved. So the country came up completely unprepared for use.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u189	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u190	to the application of responsibility. Conclusion. Asking us to postpone for six months the deadline for implementing responsibility and allow us to create a working group and to develop the Personal Data Protection Act itself. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bill 9624-1, Jojik, I can't see. Kostenko Yuri, Bunny John – neither does he. Well, basically the same thing, it's just something else written. From the committee is the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please take a brief position on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, there were two bills on this issue. This is the bill of the authors of Gorina and Laupina. It provides for a postponement of the deadline for the introduction of the Ukrainian Act "On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to increase liability for violations of personal data protection legislation with a view to transferring its entry into force from 1 January 2012 to 1 July 2012. This is due to the fact that so far no legal instrument has been approved that would normalize the entire preparatory work process that predates the registration of such databases. As a result, legal persons and citizens who use databases that are subject to registration are unable to register them at the right time. Instead, the project submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Jojik, Kostenko, Zayj, is linked to the date of entry into force of the law as soon as it becomes effective. Thus, the moment of effectiveness of the law depends on, firstly, the approval of a sub-legislative act, secondly, the introduction of this legal act into force, and thirdly, the passage. Six months after the first two events, which are a violation of the norm and do not ensure the same application of the law. The Chief Executive of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that, as a result of the first reading, Bill 9624 can be adopted as a basis and the committee supports, not only on the basis, but in general, Bill 9624 with the badge "1" should be returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u193	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u194	On the basis and in general, 9624.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, do you understand? We're expiring our law. I therefore propose to vote the adoption of the Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on increasing liability for violations of personal data protection legislation" on the transfer of the deadline for the entry into force. [[Registration number 9624]] Please vote. [[12:26:16]] For-286 Thank you. Copy that. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on State control over land use and protection. [[on administrative reform measures]] [[Registration number 9558]] There's an offer to consider a reduced procedure, please support. [[12:26:50]] For 240 Offer supported. Report, both from the committee and from the authors, head of the Committee, Gregory Kaletnik, please. Four minutes, but I'm offering two bets. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Orders of the President of Ukraine from December 9, 2010 and from 13.04. In 2011, on the State Agricultural Inspectorate of Ukraine, the authority to exercise State control over the use and protection of land previously carried out by the State Inspectorate of Land Control and Protection was delegated to the National Agricultural Inspectorate of Ukraine in accordance with the Ordinance on the Optimization of the System of Central Executive Authorities. However, codes and some laws contain the old names of the controlling body. This makes it impossible for newly formed inspectors to carry out activities related to the detection and cessation of land use and protection offences. For the purpose of solving this problem, the above - mentioned bill has been prepared, which is proposed to your mind. It should be noted that the bill does not provide for any innovation in land legislation regarding the scope and forms of State control, but only proposes to change the name of the controlling authority. Given that essentially the organ's work is paralyzed without changing powers, and that it's a mechanical transfer of the functions of the organs that previously performed them, and now they're reorganized, a request from a colleague to you to adopt the law as a whole. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 20 December 2011 reviewed and supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u197	And thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, I think it's a question. I think we got it. No one insists. Anatoly Ivanovich! Are they desirable? Sign up. Vladimir Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u198	Please pass the word to Danilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u199	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster worked on the project. In general, he supports his idea. At the same time, with the aim of a comprehensive solution to issues in the field of State oversight of land use and protection, we make such observations that, in line with the administrative reform of the central executive authorities, the exercise of State environmental control over compliance with legislation on the use and protection of certain categories of land, which are reflected in the bill, has been attributed only partially. [[Instructs the President as the reporter spoke]] Therefore, the role of the State Environmental Inspectorate as part of State control over the use of certain categories of land should be taken into account in order to bring the law into line with administrative reform. So the committee supports both me personally and the faction of the adoption of the law only in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u200	Voropayev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u201	I support this proposal. I believe that it does not fully comply with the President's decree, so the proposal to accept it as a basis is to continue to understand and make its work clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u202	And I suggest you do it easier. To pass the law now, and all other inspections that also want to make proposals, let them make the relevant laws, because you and I will not be able to write what you want in preparation for the second reading without violating 116 articles. That's why I don't see a problem here. I suggest, let's support the decision of the profiling committee, we'll adopt this law, and then you have the absolute right to make changes to the laws so that we don't violate 116 articles. I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on State Control of Land Use and Protection. [[on administrative reform measures]] Please, Chechetov. They've already spoken from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u203	Dear Adam Ivanovich, in order not to burn the law, there will be no positive vote for the law as a whole, but please listen to the offer of Voropaev to adopt on first reading, otherwise we will simply burn the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u204	Okay. We accept in the first reading. But once again, 116 articles won't let you do all the inspections that every ministry wants to do. In the first, yes in the first. 9558 is put to the vote in the first reading. [[12:32:45]] For 269 The Law was adopted in the first reading. But once again, dear colleagues, I understand the urges of every ministry that his inspection should control everything. Make sure that this does not violate 116 articles. It was another inspection. We, honourable colleagues, are still asking the Cabinet of Ministers to consider ratifying the General Agreement between Ukraine and the Democratic Republic of the Congo on trade and economic, scientific and socio-cultural cooperation. [[Registration number 0245]] I suggest you put it in the agenda and look into it. A motion for inclusion in the agenda shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:33:47]] For 270. Offer supported. I think there will be no objection if we vote to ratify the General Agreement between Ukraine and the Democratic Republic of the Congo on trade and economic, scientific and socio-cultural cooperation. [[Registration number 0245]] Please be supportive. The findings of the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are positive. Please vote. [[12:34:25]] For 278 Thank you. Copy that. And, dear colleagues, we need to include two bills in the agenda of the day session. It is up to the vote to include a draft law in the agenda of the day session, but it will already be transitional, of course, draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation. [[about the software document system]] [[Registration number 9665]] Presidential bill, defined as urgent. Please vote. [[12:35:11]] For 273 Included in the agenda. And put it in the agenda. We've removed the Procedural Code today, but a code has arrived. draft Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code from the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9700]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[12:35:51]] For 267 Dear National Deputies! The word is given to the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yeah, it's "for" to 267. It's on the order of the day. The President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u205	Dear National Deputies! We finished our meeting a little earlier. It was planned at 1300 hours, and it was invited to do so by officials and all the individuals for whom the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to be appointed, i.e. representatives of both the judiciary and the law enforcement system. At the same time, I think we all have one feeling today: finally, this session is over. If you take statistics, honourable national MPs, it was statistically one of the most productive sessions. We were going to look at 807 questions, plus 143 more bills we've included in the session in the agenda. That was more than a thousand bills. In 35 days of plenary work, 48 plenary sessions took place. I have to say that in this session we had fewer collisions and confrontations: just five plenary sessions for different reasons, for reasons of political activity, we didn't happen. However, at these meetings, if they were to take place, we could look at 140 additional questions. In the course of the session, decisions were taken regarding 699 draft laws, including the adoption or approval of 191 laws, as approved in the first reading of 67 bills, 441 bills were returned for further processing, rejected and withdrawn from the consideration of a number of bills, including 70 bills, and 70 bills were revoked and returned to subjects of the right of legislative initiative for further development. I have to tell you, honourable national MPs, that there has been an increase in the number of bills that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is returning to the Cabinet of Ministers for work, which is evidence that we have large reserves and opportunities to deepen our cooperation. I have to tell you that we have adopted such complete laws, and they are already in force: "On the Priorities of Innovative Activities in Ukraine", "On Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies", "On Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship", "On Opposition to Trafficking in Human Beings", "On Public Water Program", "On State Service", "On State Property Fund." There are 26 laws that have been adopted. During the ninth session, there were five parliamentary hearings dealing with pressing, sinister issues. The number of committee hearings has increased. Almost every committee held either one or several committee hearings. I have to say that we have also adopted with you, honourable colleagues, almost 450 decisions on organizational matters, on legislative matters, on the establishment of issues and issues that lie within the framework of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's supervisory powers. In the section of the legal entities of the legislative initiative, 21 bills were considered, including those submitted by the President of Ukraine, 172 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Clearly, most of the legislation is the result of the initiative of Ukrainian national deputies. But think about this statistic, your esteemed colleagues: 24 legislative acts, draft legislative acts, were introduced by the President of Ukraine all during this session. 19 we considered and made the right decisions. Usually, in an absolute majority, it's a positive decision. During this period, Ukraine’s Cabinet introduced 152 draft legislative acts to the Supreme Council. We took 95 as a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's the statistics. Today, the legislative acts proposed by the President of Ukraine last 28 days in the Supreme Council, the government's proposals, 58 days. I mean, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a minimum, works what's called a wheel. Therefore, there are no problems in the decision - making process proposed by the legal entities, with the exception of the national deputies, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, the issues of economic character, sectoral development, and legal issues, which are obvious and understandable, have prevailed in view of the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Already signed from this session and 149 laws have been enacted, including 24 on the ratification of international treaties and treaties. It's not taking into account the decisions we made with you today. Another 21 laws may take effect after they have been signed by the President of Ukraine of the number adopted at the same session. But I draw attention to the fact that the 23 laws of the President of Ukraine have been returned to the Supreme Council with a proposal for a re-examination. Among them are many bills that were initiated directly by the Cabinet of Ministers, or again by the Cabinet of Ministers through the deputies, or through the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In doing so, I will point out that the President's comments on these laws are motivated. Ladies and gentlemen, the work and committees have been activated: 276 committee meetings were held during this session. All of this did not take place without valid reasons for the three committee meetings. The most important issues were the Committees on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs, Budget, and Economic Policy. At the same time, honourable national MPs should draw your attention to the fact that during this session, and more precisely, from September to December, the economy of the salaries of the national deputies made one million 660,000 dollars, given that the deputies did not register at the registration tables in writing, i.e. they did not attend the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In committee cuts, this information is there, and I would ask the committee to look carefully at it, just like the faction. Clearly, much of the time has been spent on bills that the Supreme Council has rejected or withdrawn. The number of such bills is almost four hundred and 391. This is essentially a free movement, and I would like to ask the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to take a more responsible approach to the introduction of draft legislative acts. In addition, nearly 1,000 were declared and addressed, and, to be exact, 955 MPs were requested. Dear colleagues! Now there are almost 900 draft laws in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's legislative portfolio – 884. Of these, 134 have already passed the first reading in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, asking the committees to provide rhythmic work so that from February we can have draft bills prepared for consideration. Dear colleagues! During this session, the Supreme Council of Ukraine confirmed that it is a testimony to the difficult, painful situation of dialogue and compromise. But dialogue takes place in the Supreme Council, and compromise is being achieved in the Supreme Council. And for that, I am grateful to all the deputies, to all the factions that we are finally finding understanding in, it would seem, for the difficult situations of issues that at first seem to have no prospect of a positive solution. Thus, the Supreme Council, which is criticized and justified, ensures the necessary balance in Ukrainian society. And it's clear that the next session is going to be a test for the Supreme Council of Ukraine in view of the internal and external challenges and the fact that we are essentially starting an electoral campaign. I thank everyone for the work, and, with relief and joy, I declare the ninth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the sixth call closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-13-m0.u206	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion will begin its work on February 7, 2012. Thanks for the job.
