ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:36]] Cards were registered in the 416 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our colleagues: Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, on whom I remind Jubilee, and Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please welcome our colleagues, wish them success in good health. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the summary of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the period after March 14, 2012. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 73 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 10 laws and 18 regulations were passed, 10 bills were passed on the basis, 2 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, one bill was returned to the committee for further work, 23 bills and 3 draft regulations were rejected. As a result of a review of the President's proposals, 2 laws were passed after the revision, 2 laws were passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 6 laws were rejected, 230 parliamentary requests were announced. Ladies and gentlemen, on Friday we worked with you, and after the interruption as a result of the misunderstandings and the closure of the rostrum, we did not close the meeting on Friday. So I declare this meeting closed. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to practical work. On Tuesday, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have presentations by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions and groups. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Paul Movchan, MP's group "Reforms for the Future", please. Valérie Baranov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u2	Paul Mokchan, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The MP's "For the Future" group has consistently stood up for national priorities in all areas, especially in the humanitarian sphere. And first of all, it's a language question, and the language question, as we know, is the fundamental being of every nation. That is why it lies in the foundations of every state and has a definite place in the absolute majority of the constitutions of the European States. The Constitution of Ukraine referred logically and Motivatedly to the fundamental articles of the Basic Law of the New Ukrainian State as a language issue. Why is there once again an attempt to solve the language issue in Ukraine in an unconstitutional way and why is it that the guarantor of the Constitution stirs up social sentiments, insisting that contrary to common sense, the linguistic and cultural status in Ukraine should continue to be "legislatively regulated". [[in quotes]] Listen, "the law is registered, it will be reviewed and adopted." [[I mean, Simonette's law, Greenewite's, Ephraim's.]] And on behalf of the nation, it is argued why it will be "adopted": "This is what Ukraine and its population are interested in, basically, in two languages: Ukrainian and Russian," forgetting that the Preamble to the Constitution says that Ukraine is a nation of the Ukrainian nation, and the 10th article says that "the country language in Ukraine is Ukrainian." We will not touch on the problems of bilingualism, its consequences. We send the author of these statements to renowned scientists Humboldt and Needy, but note that Ukraine, which is now ruled by Viktor Fedorovich, has become an independent state because of its desire to preserve itself from the total Russians that have been experienced by Ukrainians for centuries. To make Ukrainian language not only an attribute of the Ukrainian State but also a consolidation factor of the Ukrainian nation. The distorted notion of a European practice of bilinguality, the four-linguistics show that the head of state is completely uninformed, to whom Swiss experience has been promoted as a European model, forgetting to remind him that Swiss cantons are diverse because Switzerland is a component of diverse historical lands. The European Charter of Minority Languages is called upon to protect the threat of the language of national minorities. So a group of Reforms for the Future is addressing the President as a Ukrainian, as a believer, as a guarantor of the Constitution, to understand these problems and to put a dot or to interpret in a constitutional way what language is and why it should be kept. And why in the Ukrainian State at the 20th year of its existence we see that there is no Ukrainian book, actually. 90 percent of the Ukrainian market is Russian. The Ukrainian film is, in fact, not, Ukrainian information space is ruined. What should we do in this country, Ukrainians? Or we really need to move on to a single language, because the MP's Reform for the Future thinks that two national languages are two states, and that's going to break Ukraine apart. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u3	Valerius Baranov, MP. The People's Party's deputy faction. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, voters! The other day, I was able to visit 15 rural councils. I tried to find systemic problems in the village that wouldn't allow it to develop. There's a lot of reasons. The first, the administrative machine has smothered any attempt at work, the numerous controllers and authorizations have regulated the production, the local self-government in the village has never been born, the financial support of the rural councils is absent, the district administrations have noted the identified problems, but cannot solve them, and they are afraid to report them to the centre. It is common knowledge that reforms can only go from below. Upstairs, coming back. Obviously, no one has listened patiently to the villagers until today, has taken their place and has not proposed a programme of action, our joint action to change the situation. Now, facts and examples. In 20 years, our head has been reduced three times, and in enterprises ten times, milk production has been reduced twice, meat four times. What further facts are needed to understand that all measures taken over the course of 20 years are not true and do not produce a positive result? Manufacturers monopolized the purchase price of milk to 80 - 2 bracelets of 10 copies per litre. This has created a situation of loss and senselessness in the divorce of cows. Areas receive directives on how to raise cows and report them urgently, but it is clear that the problem cannot be solved in this way. I'm sure they'll all report in time, draw a figure, but they'll cut the cows as they were supposed to. I'm convinced that if we don't urgently set the minimum price for milk at 3-3.50 bracelets, soon we'll only see cows in zoos. Cabinet Regulation No. 181 approved payments for State support for livestock production, and processors should submit registers of milk and meat producers by 10 each month. But no one gave them, and today's debt is $2 billion. Unemployment in rural areas leads to degradation and poverty. New productions are inconvenient because Polish soybeans, palm oil will still be cheaper than your present products, and no one has decided to protect their import duties so far. Many existing enterprises operate in the village, but are registered in the centre and the taxes are listed there. Minregionbud has created a new problem for peasants. Now. seals and prohibits the operation of built farms that are built without project documentation. And that's 100 percent of us, because at the time, colleagues and neighbors built them with no documents, no controls. We need to change this law immediately. Talks about attracting investors into the village and the city remained fanciful, as the past Government had left the land allocation process unresolved for business. To this day, it is impossible to take the land away from the investor. Who will come to work for us not only in the country but also in the city? The presidents of the village councils no longer enjoy receiving money for socio-economic development, and once they have been developed, all the forces have simultaneously checked and checked. Why do we have five government offices performing the same function at the same time? Why are we financing them? The value of electricity for the farmer is twice as high as that for everyone else, the environmental inspection now considers manure as a polluting substance and has begun to fine peasants. We have been ordered to purchase electricity now on the tender as if we had several suppliers. In a rural school with 30 students, the Sanepidem station stopped preparing lunches because Aunt Klava's cook has no license to cook burshees, and the director of the rural school is fined for having parties in the classrooms old and tearing up children's hamsters, as if someone had given that director one penny in the last 50 years to acquire a party. A list of these problems and nonsense cannot be drawn up and dealt with quickly. I repeat that this is all a consequence of an administrative system that has stifled business and regulated any attempt to work. I'm sure the government can handle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u6	I am sure that the Government is in a position to resolve these problems quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u7	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u8	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! In Ukraine, housing-communal reform has begun, which we believe is threatening the people with new severe trials. This is primarily because the infrastructure of the JCC is in a terrible state. 60 per cent of the metal fund was totaled, and 60 per cent of the metal structures of transport infrastructure and pipelines were also fully replaced. In the Donetsk region, for example, about 40 per cent of the mains are in emergency condition, more than 50 per cent of the street and 60 intra-quarter plumbing networks. As a result, 237 million cubic metres of water were lost on the road to consumption in 2011, while 155 million cubic metres of water were used by residents of the area. Heat energy losses amounted to 1.5 million hecacalories. This would be enough to heat cities such as Mariupol and Macievka, all over the country. Today, at least 700 billion bracelets are needed to restore the infrastructure of the JCC to the level that was in Soviet Ukraine at the end of the 1980s. The budget for 2012 is only five. Question: Where do you get money for reform? Obviously, there is no such funds in the budget, which means paying for the reformary zest will have to be given to ordinary citizens from their own pockets. That's why they keep talking about rising and increasing gas tariffs and increasing water tariffs since 1 March. According to experts, some 80 per cent of Ukrainian citizens live below the poverty line. The population owed more than 12.5 billion bracelets to the JCC. The debt on the quarter is more than 2 billion, over 6 billion for the heating, and over 2.5 billion for the gas. Communists require that utilities do not exceed 10 per cent of the total family budget. Otherwise, avalanche growth begins. We Communists are convinced that reforms must begin with strict control over prices and tariffs, particularly electricity and gas, based on real opportunities and wages. How do we get the power to reform? If it's a medical reform, it's a reduction in medical facilities. If it's education, it's schools and kindergartens. Well, if it's housing and utilities, it's the shrinking of the GECOs. Here in Poltava, the innovators thought to leave one of the JECs all over town. Now the pipe's broken, or the stand's collapsed, wait for the master until "the cancer whistles." You need a statement or a statement of poop to be taken, scratches all over the city, and then you stand in line for hours in a row. All right, so far so young, and as for our old people, someone thought about it? On the past weekends, I visited Vinnichina and Hmelničina, met with workers and students, and people everywhere were outraged about these reforms, especially medical ones. So for 4,000 students of Vinnicko's ped. The university had one medical facility and it was eliminated, removed. Where, then, can our children turn if emergency medical attention is needed? Dear voters, we Communists are convinced that a moratorium on prices and tariffs must be introduced first and that we should start with housing and utilities. It is necessary to eliminate the humiliating foam and restructure public debt. Moreover, if such debts were due to non-payments or delays in payment of salaries and pensions. The company is continuing today to protest the failure to pay wages, and today we call on everyone to join our practical actions to force the owners of enterprises and the authorities to pay unpaid wages. It is also necessary to address the issue of energy prices by removing the oligarchs from wells and by establishing the most severe state control over mining. Our slogan is Ukrainian gas, cheap Ukrainian gas is Ukrainian gas, and Russian gas is Ukrainian oligarham. These and other measures will enable us to deal with the problem of housing and utility, not at the expense of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u9	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Last Sunday, many Ukrainian settlements held extraordinary elections for local government leaders. In absolute majority of places in fair competition, candidates from the Party of the Regions have won a convincing, beautiful victory. This underlines once again that the people believe in the Party of the Regions, the people support the Party of the Regions and the people and are ready to link their future to it. The XIII Convention of the Party of the Regions has demonstrated that only unity, only the broad consolidation of political forces, guarantees the deepest modernization of the country and the improvement of the standard of living of people. Today, all representatives of the government have the crucial and responsible task of implementing the social initiatives of President Viktor Yanukovic, which will allow everyone at the personal family budget to feel the care of the State. For the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, a comprehensive social reform, a clear plan to improve the well-being of millions of citizens, will be developed and implemented. It covers virtually the entire social protection system, rather than separate fragments, in a set of tasks that have already been carried out. In fact, we have begun to address the problem of social inequality, to gradually narrow the huge gap between the incomes of the richest and the rest of society. The introduction of a tax on luxury, the lifting of parliamentary integrity and the reduction of corruption will be key steps in this direction. And, of course, a fair distribution of the national wealth of the country through an increase in human income. What concrete steps have we taken in this regard already today? Social justice will be restored in May and the pension will be recalculated for 9 million pensioners, resulting in an additional 100 bracelets. Recalculated and increased payments for 300,000 disabled miners, other workers and members of their families will be made by March. On average, an additional 400 bracelets will be received each month. The level of financial assistance to persons with disabilities of war will almost double by 9 May. On the basis of a thorough analysis of our capabilities, compensation for the contributions made to the citizens of Sberbanke of the USSR is renewed. And this is only part of the initiatives that will be carried out by our team. I would like to recall that, in the context of today's global crisis, even the highly developed countries of the world are freezing the growth of the income of the population. Against that background, it is twice as valuable that the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian leadership, has been able to strengthen the protection of its citizens, while we reject as baseless accusations of populism. Each step we take is supported by a sufficient amount of funds that have already been made available to the Treasury and by real projections of future revenues. Raising social standards would not undermine macroeconomic stability; it was a fundamental moment for the current authorities. The introduction of additional resources into the budget is the result, including the economy of foreign policy. Economic pragmatism in relations with strategic partners of the Ukrainian State has increased significantly. We expect from the European Union, first of all, the start of the mutually beneficial operation of the Free Trade Zone, as well as the facilitation of the visa regime for our citizens. We are carefully studying the practical outcome of economic integration in the CIS area. Here we will see the interest of our country, then we will ask for closer cooperation in both bilateral and multilateral formats. That is what President Viktor Janukovic said during the meetings at the EurAsES forum in Moscow. In conclusion, society expects all political forces to consolidate around the main task of raising the standard of living of people. And blocking the rostrum of the Supreme Council is driving us from this path and leading Parliament into a political shag. The members of the Party of the Regions called on the opposition to consider and end the electoral courts. Life doesn't end in choices. So give up cheap performances, work as civilized legislators for the benefit of the country and everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u11	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Andrew Kožemyakin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u12	Respectable compatriots! Dear colleagues! Today’s regime has been in power for two years, and the economy and social sphere have been torn apart as if Ukraine had been under hostile occupation for 20 years. Socio-economic indicators are like numbers of war casualties, undeclared war against their own people. According to UN standards, 80 percent of citizens are poor. And our nation is one of the last places in Europe. Last year, the Pension Fund accounted for a huge hole in 30 billion dollars. It is not clear how the government will be paying 95 billion dollars of external borrowing by the end of this year. The Western authorities are already directly claiming the possibility of a default in Ukraine. And the authorities are doing everything they can to do that. She is particularly nervous about elections and her low rating, so she blows up naphthaline on one side of the conflict and divides Ukraine into two parts. The president specifically provokes opposition in society because of the status of the Russian language. He tries to turn the hatred of citizens into animosity among people who speak different languages. On the other hand, the people, as social initiatives by the President, are throwing the pitiful taxes off the bar table. Your votes in the election want to buy cheap, even though it will cost Ukrainians dearly. The government is going to turn on the printing press, and then hyperinflation will eat up these election payments. The Kabin can't even say when he drafts the bill for the promised improvement of life. Instead, last week's opposition passed a bill to effectively raise social standards. The minimum wages and pensions can and should be increased by a third, and the authorities want to limit themselves to symbolic payments. By the end of the year, Arsenius Yatzenuk’s draft provides for a minimum pension of 265 dollars and a minimum wage of 340 dollars. These include nearly 14 million pensioners, 3 and a half million budget workers, and assistance to low - income families. We're all set. You don't have to print money. They need to be fairly redistributed for the benefit of the people, and they need to be kept in line with the budget. Billions of social protection is if the authorities steal less and stop wasting. For example, significant costs will be derived from reduced expenditure on authorities to the 2009 level, including sales from auctions of most government residences, car parks run by authorities. But there is a great risk that the vast majority will fail and this law of opposition. Although the elections in the bulldozer of power were approaching, the screws were spinning and the drums began. The President loses control of Parliament and loses his majority in the Supreme Council in the fall. This led to a secret vote for the ombudsman when the bank candidature failed. Once the vote is secret, the ranks of the majority no longer want to be buttoned down. On the other hand, yesterday we saw in the example of the election of the foot mayor, how the authorities refer to the woman, to the woman in politics, and how she is going to make parliamentary elections. I'm referring to the use of physical force by the MP of the Melnik Party of Regions against Deputy Heratchenko. But, dear colleagues, this will not help you. As the election approaches, the authorities will weaken, and social dissatisfaction will increase. After the elections, Parliament would not be an instrument in the hands of the Bank, but would actually become a higher legislative body of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u13	Andrew Kozemyaków, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u14	Good afternoon. On March 15, this year, the European Court of Human Rights decided on the need for the treatment of Julia Timoshenko outside the Kachanov Colony in a hospital medical facility. On that same day, the European Court of Human Rights, in its official notice, obliged the Government of Ukraine to implement that decision. President Janukovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs, representatives of the government, the Head of Parliament repeatedly claimed that the authorities would undoubtedly comply with the ruling of the European Court of Justice. By making such statements, they use manipulation. In front of the cameras, the higher authorities confirm the international community’s willingness to comply with the decisions of international courts. At the same time, the minister of justice allows himself to question the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. I want to remind you that there is a law in place in Ukraine on the enforcement of decisions and the application of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. He predicts that the decision of the European Court of Justice is mandatory for the execution of Ukraine, and they must be implemented within a 10-day period. Moreover, for delaying the execution of decisions by international courts, there is article 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides for the punishment of persons who do not execute or deliberately block the execution of such decisions from 3 to 8. Therefore, the BUT-Paternity faction requires that Justice Minister Lavrinovich be heard with information on the follow-up to the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights on the treatment of Yulia Timoshenko at the hospital. President Janukovic recently stated: "Ukraine sees integration as a mechanism to bring Ukraine closer to European standards," that is, in words, and in practice, the active authority is governed by only double standards. Julius Timoshenko was convicted not of crimes but of her unwavering stand and opposition. Both the buyers and the executioners of the judicial farce know it well. They also realize that if they do not find themselves in complete international isolation, they will have to release Timoshenko into prison, for no crime has she committed, and she has been condemned under the repressive articles of the Criminal Code. As a result, the Henprosecutors and the courts are preparing a new farce — the court over Timoshenko for the sole energy systems. And that, despite the fact that the charges apply to events of 15 years ago. Her affairs were violated in 2001. All episodes of accusations of the activities of the EES refer to the period from 1997 to 2000, when Julia Timoshenko no longer worked in the company. All these cases were closed in 2004-2005 at a joint meeting of the two Supreme Court Chambers. More than 50 judges have confirmed the legality of closing all cases. There are no official documents in the case files from the Russian Federation that would reflect the debt of the EES to the Ministry of Defence of Russia. So in Ukraine, there's going to be another court farce, the goal of which is to keep Timoshenko behind bars at all costs. Therefore, the BUT-Paternity faction requires: to stop any speculation around Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko's health, to immediately execute the European Court of Human Rights decision and to close the groundless, groundless, unwarranted criminal cases against EESU. You think you're fighting opposition leaders. In fact, the result of such a fight will be the complete isolation of Ukraine and, above all, the suffering of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the factions. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments and appropriate referrals. Dear National Deputies! Let us now consider the issues set out in the schedule for Tuesday, March 20. Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u16	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to. Please note the position of section 7 of article 88 of the Rules, which states: "The Supreme Council shall hear a report on the activities of the Interim Investigation Commission at any time, no later than the established deadline for its activities." [[a Rules, as you remember, are the law in us]] The deadline for the commission we are hearing has expired on 17.03 because it was created for a year, but it has not been able to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the year. I also point out that in due time the commission was created in the Supreme Council on August 24th, which gave a report on the deadline, but it was not allowed to be brought to light, given that its time was running out. Let us therefore, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, obey the law, not act according to the principle that "all things are yours and all others are the law." Please remove this question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u17	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleague! I have great respect for you, officer of the Rules, and I would not ask you to sit down. First, twice this report, which was scheduled, was not considered in connection with the fact that the Supreme Council had been blocked. The other one. With regard to the commission headed by Viacheslav Kirilenko, she was unable to work because in fact her work had been blocked and the representatives of the MPs and factions were not present. But at the same time, in doing the will of the Supreme Council, I signed this decision. Therefore, honourable colleagues, it is suggested that this is the order of consideration: according to the Rules for Reporter – 20 minutes, answers to questions – within 20 minutes, as required by the Rules. And as for the ruling, we're going to discuss it in a simplified procedure: two for, two against. Please! Please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! What's more, we've agreed to discuss the matter with you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, please! I don't know what you want. Please! And once again, what I'm saying is, my dear colleagues, that yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that this report would be considered. Please, the reporter is the Divine Inna Hermanovna. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! Please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u18	Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian community! Good afternoon, colleagues! I think today we're still going to listen to the work of a huge number of people and national MPs, and those experts who have been asked official questions by the Temporary Investigation Commission. And as a result, we have a fact that can't help but worry the Ukrainian society that needs to be studied by both parliament and law enforcement. With your permission, I will read out the ruling that we propose to take into account in the Supreme Council, in which the facts are presented, which are exclusively documented. Again, I would like to say that the interim commission of inquiry on the circumstances of the signing of the gas contracts in January 2009 was working on the following principles: first, all the meetings of the commission were open, with the invitation of the press; second, the commission was working solely on the basis of documents. Not even information from the media was included in the list of evidence. We work in such a way that no man can question what the commission has set up. And thirdly, despite the fact that the BUT faction did not assign its representatives to the commission, we argued every time that we were completely open to the participation of the representatives of the BIT on the commission. And by the way, at several meetings, representatives of the Bureau would come to the board and attend. And so, the ruling of the Supreme Council. After hearing the report of the Interim Investigative Commission, the Supreme Council decides. The Supreme Council notes that on 17-19 January 2009, during negotiations and the signing of directives on gas contracts between NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and VAT "Gazprom" Prime Minister of Ukraine, it first concealed from society and authority the existence of a debt owed by its private companies to the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation of 405 million $311 000,181 and also concealed the existence of a criminal case in the Russian Federation, in which Timoshenko was guilty of repeatedly giving bribes to officials of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation. These circumstances clearly demonstrate the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister with the interests of the State and have had a major impact on the Prime Minister's decision in favour of the foreign state. The other one. Tymoshenko unanimously agreed to the discriminatory terms of the gas contracts that had been signed earlier on October 2, 2008, a memorandum between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, the Prime Minister has unilaterally violated the terms of the signed intergovernmental agreements. Third. Knowing that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had refused to approve directives on the signing of gas contracts on discriminatory terms for Ukraine, Prime Minister Timoshenko had issued one-on-one directives, although such authorizations belonged exclusively to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a college executive body. Thus, the Prime Minister went against the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. Four. The Prime Minister put illegal pressure on her subordinate, the head of the NAC Government of Naftogazu Ukraine, who refused to sign gas contracts on discriminatory terms for Ukraine, but the Prime Minister forced him to sign such contracts under threat of release. Prime Minister Timoshenko violated the Constitution of Ukraine, which was enshrined in the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the basic democratic principles for the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, such as: rule of law, rule of law, collegiality, openness and transparency. The actions of Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine show signs of criminality and personal dependence and interest that go beyond the limits of power and official authority, in which Timoshenko is already found guilty, and among other crimes, Timoshenko has also been shown to have been betrayed by the State. These circumstances should be investigated by law enforcement authorities, since the Interim Investigation Commission has used all available options to establish objective conditions for the signing of gas contracts. The Supreme Council of Ukraine requires all officials of the State to act solely in accordance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. The Constitution of Ukraine allows officials of state authorities to act solely on the basis, within the limits of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. Democracy is a procedure. In order to prevent violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and democratic principles of the work of State authorities and senior officials, the Supreme Council refers to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Security Service of Ukraine with a recommendation to strengthen monitoring of the legality of the actions of officials of the State and officials of the authorities. The Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that democratic principles of the rule of law, transparency and openness should be at the heart of any official's action without exception. The interim investigator of the commission to report to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service for appropriate response. Report to the Council of Europe, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Council of the European Union, European Commission, European Parliament, Heads of State, Government and Parliament of the European Union. And the Russian Federation, the United States of America, Canada, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the OSCE. To publish a report from the interim commission of inquiry in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. A temporary investigator to inform the diplomatic representations of foreign states in Ukraine of the results of his work. The commission of inquiry also established the undeniable fact that the corporation's debt owed to Timoshenko and her family, "The Ukraine's only energy systems" to the Ministry of Defence of Russia. Over 405 million people have written off this debt because of the use of the scheme that we want to draw the attention of the whole society. So in January 2009, Timoshenko hid the debt, and already in October 2009, the state tax administration, which was subordinated to Prime Minister Timoshenko's status, filed a claim for liquidation of the EESU Corporation. And the basis for this lawsuit is that it's said that the EESU doesn't provide documentary reports during the year. But we learned the facts and proved it. First. The JESU’s PFC, which belonged to Timoshenko, was quickly eliminated after the signing of discriminatory contracts for Ukraine. The Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation did not submit to this association a debt repayment requirement of US$405 million of US$311,000. The Society itself did not show the existence of this debt in the report. At the same time, the state tax administration broke the law and failed to verify the financial reporting and tax reporting of the EESU. Thus, during the liquidation of the EESU for tax administration charges, the existence of this debt was hidden both by Timoshenko and the EESU company and by the Ministry of Defence of Russia. I want to remind you that as early as July 2009, in the last two months of the illegal liquidation of EESU, the Ministry of Defence of Russia presented these debts to the NAC of Naftogazu Ukraine, trying to write off the government company Naftogazu's debt in favour of the private company Timoshenko. The reason for the liquidation was that EESU does not provide financial reporting. At the same time, EESU stopped reporting just after Timoshenko became Prime Minister, i.e. from the fourth quarter of 2007. As a result of this illegal liquidation of EESU, revenue and government budget were lost. Because if the outstanding debt was hidden, the State had to pay 405 million tax on income and recover it for the benefit of the Ukrainian State. This was not done. In addition, the Supreme Council, after learning about the previous report, has the opportunity to make sure that during the existence of the EESU, during these gas transfers, a person close to Prime Minister Timoshenko, who today acts as his guardian, Mr. Vlasenko, violated the law and also served as a deputy to the head of the State Tax Administration and the National Deputy. This included the supervision of all legal structures of the Tax Administration, after-action. So it was Vlasenko who was in charge of filing lawsuits on behalf of the State Tax Administration, and EESU was eliminated on behalf of the State Tax Administration. Next. The interim commission of inquiry points out that we have done a comparative analysis of criminal articles 364 and 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine with the criminal legislation of the countries of the European community, both the member countries of the European Union and the candidate countries. As a result, we bring the table in the report. It will also be given to the media and to the diplomatic corps. To allow everyone to see that the statement that 364 and 365 articles in the Criminal Code of Ukraine are Stalinic articles is totally not true. And so, according to the meaning of the articles, there are in the criminal codes of the following European Union member states: Finland, Czech Republic, Lithuania, Hungary, Bulgaria, Estonia, Slovenia, Austria, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Italy. That is, 11 countries in the European Union have articles of the same meaning and even terminology as in articles 364 and 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. In addition, four countries have identical or similar articles in criminal codes: Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia, and Montenegro, which have already been condemned in Ukraine. But what we're saying right now is that that criminal crime, which is already punishable, is only a small part of what the Interim Investigation Commission has set up and we expect additional investigations from the law enforcement agencies. We would also like to highlight the following. We think it's very funny to look at the fact that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has not only hidden herself from a society that has private debts to a foreign state with which she has entered into negotiations and criminal proceedings in which she has been convicted of her criminal offence, but she has strongly denied such circumstances. We put in a report a well-documented statement by the Prime Minister in the media, in the authorities, where she directly claimed that she had not been born and the person she had bribed, and then in the Russian Federation she agreed to close the case under non-rehabilitative circumstances, so she actually pleaded guilty. Secondly, she claimed that neither she nor her structure had nor had any debts to Russia. And we have a documentary confirmation of almost half a billion dollars in that kind of debt. Thirdly, Timoshenko claimed that all the negotiations she had conducted were open, tolerant, and we have letters from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine stating clearly that the talks from 17 to 18 January 2009 had been held in Moscow in a totally secret atmosphere, resulting in face-to-face, face-to-face, face-to-face. No report was submitted under these negotiations, as required by Ukrainian legislation, either to the President of Ukraine or to the Ukrainian Parliament or to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thus, for the first time in the history of Ukraine, we have a situation where the Prime Minister of Ukraine acted exclusively in the interests of a foreign state, not his own country. And we have shown that it had subjective grounds for dependence on a foreign state, and we have reasonable suspicion that it had a direct intention to sign a discriminatory treaty for Ukraine. In the previous report, which we submitted to Parliament three months after the commission of temporary inquiry began, we cited the facts that had been established at the time. The extra work was very hard, because we certainly have limited possibilities. Temporary commission investigators have no opportunity to call witnesses, no opportunity to conduct expert studies. Thus, the interim commission of inquiry proved the facts that it was to prove and could prove by means of the instruments given to us by law. Everything else has to be done by the law enforcement agencies, thanks to the tools that criminal law gives them. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, please! Sign up for questions. But we resent it when women are treated that way, so let's treat everyone equally. Please. Please, Sergey Sobolev, the BUT faction is Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the media! Surprisingly, the Commission worked for a year, and this person, who is now standing in the rostrum, did not find two basic documents. On what, then, are all the charges made? There is a case of bribes to generals and Colonels of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation who were allegedly provided directly to Timoshenko. So to a well-known commission that, I don't know what year I've been doing, I'm arguing that since November 2003 and November 2006, these cases were determined by the Russian Federation's final highest institutions, and it was admitted, I quote, "In the absence of Izgagin, Churilov and Olinik's actions, these cases will be closed." So please don't lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u21	Thank you. In fact, what you just said is a small part of a huge criminal case being investigated by the Attorney General of Russia and the General Military Prosecutor's Office of the Russian Federation. Tens of officers of the Ministry of Defence were held on this matter. Some of these cases have been closed, some have amnesty, and some have been imprisoned for more than four years. But I want to draw the attention of society to the insolence with which the corporation, organized by Timoshenko, ran bribes with representatives of the Ministry of Defence of Russia. The documents we received in the Order on the Incentive of Timoshenko to Criminal Responsibility and in the Order on the Closure of the Criminal Case against Timoshenko in Unrehabilitative Conditions, to which she has given her consent, state explicitly that in the EESU Corporation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u22	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u23	In the case of bribes given to representatives of the Ministry of Defence, an e-mail was made, which was called: "The Russian Federation Department of Defense's employees' schedule for contracts with EESU." And this information contained the amount of bribes of $5,000 that were given to the workers of the Ministry of Defense of Russia. This document is "Stand of bribes" for November of a given year. So it was systemic corruption, deep, at all levels of power in Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u24	Baldirev, please. And I'm asking you to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u25	Dear Inna Hermanovna, first of all, allow me to thank you for your excellent work and excellent report. And in order to simplify the work of the media and to simplify the understanding of what you have said, by our respected colleagues in Parliament, I ask you to name in stages the amounts that Timoshenko transferred from the Ukrainian budget to her corporation, stole from the contract with the Russian Ministry of Defence and transferred to the account of her own British firm. I mean, please give us a timetable for how this global theft took place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u26	Thank you. We have two documents that show that Mrs. Timoshenko had a corrupt relationship with the highest leadership, the former leadership of the Russian Federation. Including the rings, the two envelopes that are proved by the $200 million case material and the $250 million case file are the system of execution through the accounts of the Ministry of Defence of Russia, the Treasury of Russia, the private bank that is controlled by Mr. Lebedev, who was a major investor in Ukraine, including the tax service of the Russian Federation. These are the bonds that led to the transfer of debt to the Russian Ministry of Defence before the Gazprom VAT. After that, all these documents are in the material. The EESU Corporation began to establish the Ministry of Defence of Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u27	Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u28	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please pass the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u29	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u30	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, we can trust people who have demonstrated moral cleanness and integrity over a long period of time. People who never lied, people who stood in some position. As you can believe, Inna Hermanovna, when you were in the '90s, in the late '90s, in the early 2000s, breast-fed the court's decision not to hand over private oligarchs to clay mills, ferro-flavored. We remember very well how you put up a term like "azairland." You were fighting Azari at the time, for that was convenient for you. Today, you're sorry, you're earning a seat on the Party of Regions list and you're already in other positions. But I have a simple question. When will the trial be concluded with Citizen Romazanov, who accuses you of stealing four cans and destroying the lady in the room you rented? And here it ends, maybe you'll get rid of that dirt.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u31	Thank you. I understand the practice of BUTU, which has been in use for decades in Ukraine -- harassing any person who is trying to prove to society the theft, bribery and state crimes of your leader. You can believe it or not, but you cannot fail to believe the documents obtained by the interim commission of inquiry. These documents are all in the originals, these documents, you know, like "the tombstone inscription." They can't be challenged anymore, they can't be questioned, they're documents that directly show: Timoshenko lied to her own people and society, Timoshenko hid the circumstances of her own dependence on Russia, Timoshenko forced officials to use force to illegally sign discriminatory contracts for Ukraine. These are signs of treason. Thank you. There's no trial with Ramadan in nature, it's the technology of BUTU, you've been using it for two years, it's not working. So please refer yourself to the court if you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u32	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u33	Dear Inna Hermanovna! Well, I understand why you're getting distracted, interrupted. They're just afraid of one thing. They're afraid of the truth. You have clearly, logically, consistently, objectively, within the framework of the constitutional field and the laws of Ukraine, set out the essence of the matter. I don't think any sane person has any questions, obviously. But I have a question of this plan: what do you think if we make a decision and your work? The documents on the work of the Commission of Department in PARA, in the European Parliament, and there people will read carefully. I have this question: if European parliamentarians do not adhere to the principles of double standards, can they have questions on this issue or not? What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u34	Thank you. I think it is true that all of my colleagues who have communicated with European and not only European diplomats in one way or another. Regrettably, they were not interested to date in the nature of the charges. None of those who today make allegations of illegal prosecution in the criminal proceedings of Timoshenko are aware of the substance of the case. Either they do not wish or they have not been able to report this information before or by representatives of the Ukrainian State. I am confident that the parliaments of foreign States will not be able to draw attention to the ruling adopted today by Ukraine's highest representative legislative body. I am confident that these circumstances will shock Europeans because it is impossible to imagine the Prime Minister of Germany, Finland or the Czech Republic, or Britain, who, having a personal dependence on a foreign State, would not have declared that there was a conflict of interest and would not have come out of the negotiating process. The Prime Minister of Ukraine has not only hidden it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u35	Please, Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u36	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Inno German! The report must be given to the members of the commission, and it is very thorough. You have noted that all the conclusions of the TSC are based on the relevant documents. But you suggest in the draft Supreme Council decree that paragraph 4 should be written down: among other crimes, Timoshenko’s actions are marked by treason. I think that's the conclusion. Did the board determine the position of the BSC or the Henprocurator? And the second. In the 6th paragraph of the project, you suggest that the Supreme Council contact the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney-General's Office, with a recommendation to strengthen the control of the legality of the state's officials and officials of the authorities. Why write this down — it is their direct responsibilities? Why don't we record them going to work every day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u37	Thank you. I'll answer your question, thank you. First. We can't establish a pattern of crime. If you remember, in our previous report to Parliament, three months later, we also wrote that there were signs of a crime of excess authority and duty. Because establishing a fact and making an accusation is solely the competence of the law enforcement authorities. So we're writing now that there are signs, but everything else has to be investigated by the Ukrainian law enforcement system, by the U.S. Attorney General or by the U.S. Attorney General's Office, they're already being determined. As for the second question. Why are we drawing the attention of the President and all the senior officials in the state? Because in Ukraine, according to the Constitution, there is a principle opposite to that of citizens in relation to officials. Citizens are allowed anything that is not prohibited, and officials are allowed only what is explicitly stated in the law. That is, we have the presumption of a positive decision - making obligation. That's why we're asking that today's authorities should not allow any official to act beyond what they've been given.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u38	Thank you. Saint Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u39	Please hand over Zabzaluka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u40	Zabzaluka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u41	I have two questions. First. Why are you disinforming the population of Ukraine? Because the legality of the closure was checked by the courts, including at the joint meeting of the two chambers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, more than 50 judges. But this is true when the regime replaces the courts today. And the second question. Why didn't you ever mention Mr. Azarov? Because everyone knows that it was at the direction of Kuchma and the direct work of Azar that the company's assets were arrested and sold at no cost, stolen by those criminals? Kuchma was dealing with business at the time, and Janukovich is dealing in a similar way with business.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u42	First of all, the hat's on fire. Our report does not refer at all to matters that seem to have been decided by the Supreme Council. You're just so afraid of the criminal case that even where there's no talk about it, you're talking about it. But I'll say you're misleading Ukrainian society. The Supreme Court did not decide on Tymoshenko’s innocence. The Supreme Court stated that the Supreme Court did not consider it appropriate to intervene in the matter if the Office of the Attorney-General had orders to close these cases. So do not misinformation society. The second question is why I don't mention Azarov. You know, the EESU companies have already caused billions of dollars in U.S. dollars to Ukraine. And the Ukrainian government has always faced the need to reflect on Russia's efforts to obtain private debts from EESU on the basis of state-owned Ukrainian money. This is also mentioned in the report, and these are also circumstances that need to be investigated by law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u43	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u44	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Lemsey.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u45	Lemsey's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u46	The main purpose of the work of the temporary commission is to determine whether there are signs of treason. I have a question. That's understandable, and we're reading paragraph four, which says, "In the midst of other crimes, Timoshenko's actions have signs of treason." These circumstances need to be investigated by law enforcement authorities, since the interim commission of inquiry has used all available possibilities to establish objective conditions for gas contracts. So have you studied or have you not studied it? If you cannot answer, there are signs of treason or not. You don't have to look at me like that. Please tell me what you've been doing all this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u47	Thank you for asking. I'll say it again if you haven't heard the same question. The Supreme Council of Ukraine and the interim commission of inquiry established undeniable signs of treason in the actions of Timoshenko. Because she was dependent on a foreign state, had private debts, had criminal cases and established bribes, and hid these circumstances from the Ukrainian State. It didn't come out of the negotiation process, but instead, it tried to force any price to sign discriminatory contracts for Ukraine. These actions have caused billions of losses to Ukraine. Only law enforcement and judicial authorities can establish her guilt of treason. The Supreme Council can only establish signs of these crimes that we have committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u48	Extreme, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u49	Thank you. Please pass the word to your colleague Pudov Boris.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u50	Please, Pudov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u51	People's MP Pudov, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Well, I've had a long time, like many of my fellow Members of Parliament and our citizens, and it's not surprising that you have a personal grudge against Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, who you've been demonstrating throughout all of our convocation. But I want to let you know that your image is not very helpful, you people are kindly called black. But that's not what this is about. Now it's surprising that in paragraph 6 of the Order you wrote about some mythical civil servants. And you're not surprised, and why don't you write, there's Boyko and others that have already emptied our budget by purchasing platforms for billions. How do you comment on that? Or will you complete the names of the specific heroes of our time?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Thank you for asking. First. I think I can write memoirs on what kind of abuse is being used by "BUT" against those people who are trying to act against their leader. It's the threat of death, it's the helm open, it's the harassment on the Internet, it's watering and so on and so forth. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can say anything, but such behavior is savagery. This behavior is a shame to you. And besides, I want to say that you're acting like a minor. You know, I read about how the Bolsheviks behaved in Kiev in 1917-1918. So when they killed someone of the past authority, they danced and sang songs during their funeral, and when the relatives went out, they were thirsty for the graves of those they had killed. You remind me very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u53	Shustik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u54	Olena Shustik, BUT Block, Fatherland. I would very much like to ask Inna Hermanovna if she is ashamed. But I understand that this is a rhetorical question. And I give my word to my colleague Antonini Boluri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u55	Please, the Boluri microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u56	Mrs. Inno! Mrs. Inno, in your report, you're talking about default. Who's been cheating? You say the damage is done to the state. But the credits with the Ministry of Defense were never State. They were always counted on the accounts of the private structure of EESU. And these debts have nothing to do with Julia Volodymyrna or the state. And once again, these are private debts of structure. And even as early as 2010, negotiations were under way, and protocol is backing up with the Ministry of Defense on how to settle them. You're twisting, you're giving.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. Well, since you worked at EESU, you can see it better. But I'm going to answer you essentially. First. Debt was written off, through the illegal liquidation of EESU, where EESU itself concealed these debts, $405 million, and the Ministry of Defence of Russia did not file a lawsuit in the liquidation of EESU. That means it was probably a conspiracy. Let the law enforcement authorities prove this. The other one. Since there was a debt of 405 million, you know that if this creditor debt cancels, then you have to pay the tax on the income of the enterprise to the state budget. And these are the damage that could have been done in this case. And the third. Your stories about Timoshenko having no relation to EES are completely contradicted by documents that exist in the files of the commission of inquiry. As clearly proved, EESU belonged to Timoshenko and her family as well as the offshore companies that counted and graduated.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u58	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u59	Can I finish? I'm done. Adam Ivanovich, let me finish. Like Timoshenko’s companies in Britain and Cyprus, hundreds of millions of dollars were spent on bribes and officials of the Russian Ministry of Defence and former Prime Minister Lazarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u60	Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u61	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] before the vote. Yes, dear colleagues, as agreed, we will now sign up for two, two, against the draft decision, discussion of the draft Decree (No. 10211) on the report of the Temporary Investigation Commission on the investigation of the circumstances of the signing of the gas contracts between NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and VAT Gazprom. Please sign up. Yeah, that's an interesting recording. Bondarenko Volodymyr is supported. Pashinsky, please. Pashinski. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u63	Unfortunately, dear colleagues, there is very little time to analyze the 40 pages of cynical lies presented here by Inna Hermanovna. But I would like to point out a few very important things. Honestly, when I read this report, I thought, for the first time, do we expect Inna Hermanovna's apology to Julius Volodymyrna? Everyone remembers, including from this rostrum as she ran, waved papers, and shouted that Julia Timoshenko had transferred 405 million of her debts to the state. Everyone remembers that the B.S.A. took "under the cards" and broke it. Nonsense, this lie is a criminal matter. What do we read in this pseudoscience? It turns out that Timoshenko Yulia’s debt was written off as a result of the liquidation, in fact under the tacit conspiracy of the parties. Dear friends, half the lawyers are here. This is the report of the Parliamentary Commission. Well, we can't really turn parliamentaryism into an important tool like the parliamentary commission into just trying to discredit a leader who's been illegally condemned. The second block of questions. They say, "Give me the facts." I can give you the facts. It's number one. Sadly, all of them, including Yanukovich Viktor Fedorovich, often allow themselves to talk about seemingly cabal gas agreements. I'm only stating the facts. In 2009, under extremely difficult conditions with the Russian Federation, called the gas war, Ukraine, except for Belarus, received the lowest price for gas in Europe. I want to officially state that the lowest is $232, 2009 except for Belarus -- that was the lowest price. Another issue is that all European countries started diversifying their supplies, started negotiations with Russia, and, listen carefully, at the end of 2009 and in 2010, a whole group of European companies got discounts. I received these discounts and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u64	Please, Karmazin will give him two more minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u65	But these discounts were received at the price of Sevastopol's treachery in violation of the Constitution. In 2011, to be clear, this is the official data of Eurostat's Gazprom and Naftogazu NAC, the average price of gas in Ukraine was $309, and in Europe it was $390. And they lie to us, they lie to us, and they lie to us again. Another question. In December 2011 and January 2012, and now listen carefully, all the European countries get a discount once again, one country gets a discount – this is our country, Ukraine. Dear friends, I can say a lot on all forty pages of this lie. But what I want to tell you is, do you really think we've been presented here with all these papers that the handover of the commander's watch and laser printer to Major Bistrov in 1997 gives you the moral or legal right to tell us about the emperors and the three changes in robbing our state? Is this, if you'll excuse me, heresy that you're trying to feed the Ukrainian people again, giving you the right to create "livells," write off the oligars for $24 billion, billion, debt money, buy 800 million at an unfathomable price and apply oil surpluses, sell the gas to the budget institutions for $800 when it's going to cost 3,000, 900 dollars? You know, there's only one thing that comes to mind. The Ukrainian people are a very peaceful people, but it was he who coined the saying, "He who sows the wind will reap the storm." Ladies and gentlemen, stop sowing the wind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u66	Jaroslav Suhi is passing it on to Volodymyr. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u67	The court gave a legal assessment of the actions of former Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko of Ukraine and found her guilty of exceeding her official powers, resulting in the loss of our state and continuing to suffer losses from the gas price. We're paying about 50 billion dollars to the Russian side today for gas. [[B in m in s a l in]] There are things in European standards like conflict of interest. The Commission found that there had been a conflict of interest with Julia Timoshenko. What's his point? First of all, the only energy systems she's headed are blamed by the Russian Ministry of Defense for $405 million. The second conflict was that she was violated by a criminal case, stopped on non-rehabilitative grounds, and she pleaded guilty in the same decision to bribe high-ranking members of the Ministry of Defense. If there is a conflict of interest, according to European traditions, an official has no right to negotiate or to report on this conflict of interest, so that society is more alert to the negotiating process. She didn't do it, she hid it. And when the opponents talk about the terms of the deal. Look how cold that must have been! So I want to tell you, it was freezing. For when the Russian side recalled that it blamed 405 million, Timoshenko did not once pass through the back of Julius, for his shirt was nearer to the body. But the voters need to know: we've raised pensions, we've raised wages. We'd raise social standards if these 50 billion weren't stolen from the Ukrainian budget today. The electorate should remember who.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The factions that didn't sign up don't insist on the performance? Then we'll make a decision. I, my dear fellows, would like to propose such changes with your permission. "Hearing and discussing the report." Well, we haven't really discussed the report, we've been discussing the ruling. So you could just drop "talking about," just, "listen to the report." In paragraph 2.2. Paragraph 2.2. to begin: "one-on-one consent to discriminatory conditions." Paragraph 8: "to report to the Temporary Commission." continue to follow the text. Here are three such amendments. I'm voting on the proposal with these amendments to accept. To adopt an order on the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the signing of the gas agreements between NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and VAT "Gazprom" on the existence of signs of State betrayal in Ukraine's economic security. Please vote. With the changes I've proposed. [[11:20:35]] For 266 It's been decided. The factions, please. Region Party 189, BUT-1, Our Ukraine 2, Communists 25, People's Party 20, Reforms. - 19, non-fractional -10. Dear colleagues, let's get to the bottom of this. to the "Inclusion in the Order of the Day" section. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the regulation of foreign exchange transactions. [[Registration number 10020]] Please, Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to get your attention. It's an unforgivable bill. In fact, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to conduct thorough bartering operations in external economic activities. I think this is the wrong position, and I would very much ask the committee to consider this bill to be sure to receive the conclusion of the National Bank. Because so far there have been serious restrictions on barter operations. There were individual licenses, there was a deadline, there was a list of these critical goods exported at the barter. Now it all cancels out. I think we should forget about barter operations, not launch operations. So I very much ask that this bill be sent to the Committee on Finance and Banking as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u70	Yes, dear colleagues, I think this will be done. And probably now it's going to both committees that way. Only the Economic Policy Committee is in charge. And the fact that your committee has the opportunity to consider it, no one here would deny it. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Commodity Exchange Transactions in the Field of External Economic Activity, registration number 10020. Please vote. [[11:23:14]] For 256 Decision taken. We are considering the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft Law on Documents certifying the person, his special status and confirming the citizenship of Ukraine. Registration numbers 10036, 10036-1. Besides the Chaplin, who else insists? Then please, Your Honor, there will be a reduced procedure, please report to Bill 10036. Who, Konovaluk? Who? I repeat, the authors of the bill of Konovaluk, Moses, Coast. Which one of you will report? Please, Konovaluk, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I understand that we need to include this bill in the agenda, and we understand that there are certain requirements, including the European Union and the terms that are actually due. I understand that there are very many innuendo around this issue and after the veto that the President of Ukraine has imposed, we have been working on this bill today, there is no discrepancy, including with the government bill. So I'm going to suggest that these issues be included in the agenda and considered in plenary mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u72	Thank you. If you write it down, of course. The next bill is 10036-1. [[government]] Who do we have from the government? The government's asking, all right. Lavrinovich was supposed to report. I'd like you to sign up for two for two for one, two for the other. Please, Taran-Terren, prepare for Kamchatno.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u73	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u74	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, first of all, the position of the committee on these two bills, because the committee has already considered them. Thus, the committee considered a bill on documents certifying a person, his special status, and confirms the citizenship of Ukraine, submitted by the national deputies of Konovaluk, Moses and the Coast, as well as an alternative Cabinet of Ministers, on documents certifying a person’s citizenship, granting the right to leave Ukraine and to enter Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that at the last session, we have already considered similar alternative bills, which have also been tabled by the Ukrainian People's Deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers. If you remember, the bill was made by the President of Ukraine, but although it was accepted as a whole, and on February 9, this year, as you recall, the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the President’s veto and rejected the bill. That's the story of the question. But, honourable colleagues, by the way, throughout Europe, I want to emphasize, in all of Europe, except for two countries, Ukraine, we go to at least this, except for Belarus and Russia, introduced passports with electronic biometric information. Without that, we can't see visa liberalisation. This is the basic requirement of Europe for us. I would also like to remind the Party of the Regions that, in turn, the President has also approved the Action Plan for Liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine. And one of the first steps is to adopt legislation on the introduction of electronic information documents. So this is the request of the President of Ukraine, who is embodied in the decree. I'm going to tell you the committee's decision that the committee has considered this very carefully and by an absolute majority of votes has decided to propose to the Supreme Council questions about biometric passports, let's say these two bills are in the order of the day session and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u75	The stone is passed on by Caplienne. The next one is Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u76	Dear national deputies, distinguished colleagues, would like to begin our application for our position from the following. Bills 1036 and 1036-1 are nothing more than a repetition of the 8507 bill of the President of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that, as of today, the President has made his position clear on this bill and pointed out that he is literally: "He is at risk of violating the constitutional rights of citizens, contrary to Ukraine's international obligations and is a step back, towards the implementation of European standards, or the implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan for Ukraine. Nor did the law provide for the safety of citizens. Moreover, its approval would result in unwarranted budget costs and additional expenses for each Ukrainian family. ” I want to remind you that today, under the cover of what we need to do the first paragraph of the plan to join this Action Plan on visa-free liberalisation, we're changing the concept. The ISAO requirements apply only one – to make a simplified procedure for identifying citizens, such as Ukraine, when crossing the border by those or other routes. As a result, to date only one law in Ukraine regulates this issue is the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Departure from Ukraine and the Entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian Citizens. It is this law that needs to be changed, not the multitude of legislative acts that we are addressing today. We believe that the repetition of the proposed bills is purely a lobbyist initiative and a desire to enrich some of the representatives who lobby for their private interests because of the relevant laws. I would also like to point out that the parliamentary group of Reforms for the Future has already introduced an appropriate bill two months ago to amend the Ukrainian law on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens, and some other legislative acts on visa facilitation. [[9592]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u77	Thank you, sit down, please. Yuri Carmazin. There's a rule for everyone, please sit down. You can put in two minutes. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin. Please give the floor to the Minister of Internal Affairs of the opposition government of Hennadia Moskal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u79	Yes, distinguished national MPs, who can't hear, can do it even louder. I'm asking you to remove both of these bills. Read the Visa Liberalization Action Plan. It only provides for approval of the legislative base for the issuance of machine-reading biometric passports abroad, and no more does Europe want from us. Why are we changing today, and we want 35 million to change the internal passports of Ukrainian citizens, which are subsidized and appear to be $40 in 3 bracelets? On the one hand, the President wants to add to the people, the Supreme Council with the majority and Kabmin wants to take it all away. The European Union requires only one document — biometrics in passports to go abroad. Such a law must be developed and rejected. And so people are calling for money for papers that they don't really need today. If today's passport of a Ukrainian citizen changes the place of registration, there are pages, then every one of them will have to buy a new, new and new, and a new one and a new one. For 3.40, no more plastic passports will be sold to you. So, Your Honor, think and listen. If the President tells you that it's better not to take the last money away from the population, you're saying that the Cabinet of Ministers, that the people's deputies all three of the bills you're doing to take the last copies into Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u80	One minute, Popescu. Sand, your microphone's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Honourable colleagues, an important element of the fulfilment of Ukraine’s commitments to the European Union and the Plan of Implementation approved by the President of Ukraine. The European Union's plan of action for Ukraine's visa regime is to introduce Ukraine's documents to move abroad with an electronic biometric information medium and to ensure that personal data are properly protected. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Constitution guarantees every individual his or her privacy and family life, except for the cases provided for in the Basic Law of Ukraine. It also prevents the collection, storage, use and dissemination of confidential information about a person without consent, except in cases defined by law, and only in the interests of national security, the economic well-being of citizens and human rights. This should be done at the legislative level. And we need to protect this information that's going to be electronically. That's why the Party of Regions advocates a legislative settlement. And we're going to vote for inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u82	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I am voting for the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session draft laws on documents certifying the person, his special status and confirming the citizenship of Ukraine. [[Registration numbers 10036 and 10036-1]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:34:40]] For 206 The factions. The Party of Regions – 173, "BUT" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 2, the Communists – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, non-fractional – 10. We are considering the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on the Strengthening of State Control over the Use of Natural Resources, which is privately owned by operators. [[Registration number 10037]] The subject of the legislative initiative is Simonenko. Shall we vote? No one insists. Then I propose to vote to include in the agenda of the day's session the draft Act on the Strengthening of State Control over the Use of Natural Resources in Private Ownership of Hosts. [[Registration number 10037]] Please vote. [[11:35:59]] For-40 It's not on, I'm afraid. The factions. The region's 10th party, BUT 4, Our Ukraine didn't vote, the Communists 25th, the People's Party, the Reforms. – did not vote, non-fractional – 1. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the project's day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Statement on the Agreement on Association, including a Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area, between Ukraine and the European Union. [[Registration number 10161]] The subjects of the legislative initiative are Ephraim and Kojar. Shall we vote? Yes, I then propose to vote to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft regulation on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the conclusion of the Association Agreement, including a deeper and comprehensive free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union. Please vote. [[11:37:11]] For 265 But Europeans don't want to vote. The factions, please. Region Party – 170, BUT – 19, Our Ukraine – 2, Communists – 24, People's Party – 20, Reforms – 19, non-fractional – 11. The inclusion of the 70th anniversary of Kerch and Sevastopol from German-Fashistic invaders in 1942 is being considered. [[Registration number 10035]] No one insists on the discussion? Yes, please, the author of the bill, two minutes, Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u83	Dear People's Deputies, we have reached the conclusion of the two Committees. And thank you, of course, to the Committee on National Security, Defence, but I wanted to make a comment on the decision of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. The feat in which 80,000 of our citizens participated in the defense of the famous battery was described as follows: "In the opinion of the national MPs, the celebration of every battle of the Great Homeland War is not essential." You mean they don't see the turn of 80,000 Ukrainians and at the same time issue and approve two decisions on their own committee, think about their meaning. First. To mark the 310th anniversary of the death of Damien the Great. And they confirm another one: "The 960th anniversary of Anna Jaroslavna's marriage to Henrymi." That is, for such nonsense, they have the voices of the people's deputies, and to celebrate the feat of 80,000 of our citizens who have liberated our country from the Fascist villains, they see it as pointless. So, I'm sure the hall will determine, and that will definitely be the order. And I ask you to support all the people's deputies for this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u84	The committee's been looking, hasn't it? Okay. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u85	Dear colleague, do not distort the position of the committee. I want to talk about what we're dealing with, of course, both the feat, and everyone and the victory, and the defeat with the same public approach. And we don't mind Kerch and Sevastopol celebrating their anniversary. We asked different questions. If we are completely locked in, tomorrow others will contribute. We'll never get out of all of these. It's a shame that there is no Vladimir Mikhailovich now, because he supports this initiative, the best, the wisest thing for us to do is to take the most important dates once a year, to find a compromise between, let's say, one political position and another, because we are the only people, and in fact we still need to celebrate our Jubilee, but to choose the most important, the most important. And the committee said that if it were the Jubilee of Kerchi or Sevastopol, there was no conversation. And it's just that it was a defense. Because of that. [[B in m in s a l in]] But don't yell, for God's sake, you won't scare me, I'm already scared, for God's sake. That's why we're asking the question like, "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block," I'm already saying on their behalf, we have a free vote, please vote, but the committee said that if we celebrate every defense and that sort of thing, we'll never get out. Moreover, I want to tell you that the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't execute all these decisions. As the Galicians say, "he has a nose" of our own. Because, please, the position of the committee is clear: there is a feat, please, you want to vote – vote. We feel that such dates are not necessary. And if you mark them, you mark them at the local level, on the Crimean level, let's say the levels, mark them as a city, otherwise we just don't see it in that sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u86	Besides the Chaplain, do they insist? Please sign up then. Please, Chaplain. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u87	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, honourable citizens! You know, there's no doubt in the MPs that these bills are not only to be supported, they should be shared with us about the heroic acts that our colleagues, our grandfathers, our great-grandfathers had done during the Great War. What does it mean to be unable to celebrate the defense of a city or city? I'd like to remind you that the millionth city of Odessa, Sevastopol or Kerch was given the title "city hero" solely because they took the forces of German invaders away from Moscow, Leningrad, Ural, the Caucasus. How can you say that? Hundreds of thousands of people died on these platforms. We will support and urge all halls to remove any speculation on this issue. And if anyone doesn't like us celebrating heroic defense or liberation, give it up. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will give 12 votes in favour of this initiative for inclusion in the agenda and voting as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u88	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, well, there is a limit to cynicism. You know, sometimes our political opponents make draft decrees on notation of dates: 1243, two weeks, three days and one and a half hours. It was incomprehensible who, incomprehensible where else, went and moved here to celebrate as a great event. It's a holiday! Hundreds of thousands of people have put their heads behind our homeland. What could be more sacred when people died for the Fatherland, for the Family, for the Motherland?Oh, my God! How can you trample on your bones and on your memory and say that you don't have to notice that? Well, then we'll be raising moral freaks. I feel sorry for the young people. Do we want to raise patriots? What patriots? What are we talking about? And then Nikolayev comes out! Here is also Nikolayev coming out of the Supreme Council. It's our fault! If we're going to go on dates like this, after the big victory, after Sevastopol, after Kerchi, then we're going to be broadcasting Nikolayev! What patriotism? What kind of spirituality are we talking about? I repeat, well, the moral plank never fell in the hall. There can be no more cynicism. Therefore, the Party of the Regions proposes to support, this is a holiday, there is no policy here. And if there's a drop of conscience in people, they have to vote. And if not, I think God will remember that light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u90	Andrew Schlell. Get ready, Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u91	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to pass the word to the head of the faction of Andrija Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u92	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask our fellow opponents peacefully not to speculate on this subject, because it's a very sacred topic for all of us. This is the subject of the Great Homeland War, where so many of our loved ones, our grandparents, died. I'm sorry. I know how the authorities will react to this initiative. She'll talk about one thing, then she won't have enough money. But I wish at the local level, in these places of heroes, and Sevastopol, and Kerchi, this event was honored. So our faction decided: free voting. I personally vote in favour of this ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u94	Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u95	Vladimir Moysik, Party for Ukraine. Please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u96	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine. Dear fellow national MPs! I also insist that, in terms of dates like this, we do have a notation that really matters. the memorable events of World War II in the territory of the former Soviet Union were no speculation. Here we went, quoted one of the deputies, the decision of our committee. As a member of the committee, I make it clear that we were not against this, as it were. We know how these dates have been marked today and in previous years. It goes according to the Soviet template: The Great Victory and so forth, and no one speaks of the hundreds of thousands of citizens, and Ukraine, including, among other things, perished in those battles, in those so-called victories as a result of the free leadership of generalissimus Stalin's military operations and his command force. You remember, as it were, when we celebrated the anniversary of the next defence, too, the heroic defense of Kiev, when even the soberest intelligent military spoke of the need to retreat immediately, 600,000 troops were captured, more than half of them destroyed, and the whole beginning of the first. The beginning of the war was that millions of armies entered the boilers and walked, as it were, under the massacre of German fascists. And no one is saying that it is Stalin, the Communist Party and its leadership, who is primarily responsible for these tragedies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u97	May I remind you of who you were, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, Communist Party. Question completed. I'm voting to include in the agenda a draft decree marking the 70th anniversary of Kerchi and Sevastopol's heroic defense against German-Fashistic invaders in 1942. Registration number 10035, please vote. [[11:48:45]] For 324 Thank you. The factions. Region Party – 188, BUT – 49, Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense – 11, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, Reforms – 19, non-fractional – 12. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the right of a person to review judicial decisions. Registration number 10001. Is there a motion to vote, no objection? I am voting to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure that a person has the right to review judicial decisions. Registration number 10001, please vote. [[11:49:47]] For 251 Questions are included in the agenda. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the bill on self-regulation. Registration number of bill 10052, Royal, Catherinechuk the authors of the proposal. Shall we vote? I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's session the draft Law on Self-regulation Organizations. Registration number 10052, please identify yourself. [[11:50:37]] For-56 I didn't. Overruled. No law included. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the proposal: to adopt the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the funding of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2012. [[Bill registration number105]] Please vote. [[11:51:17]] For 261 Thank you. Question accepted. About what no one's seen. Dear colleagues, representatives of each faction are on the profile committee. This time. Second, it was sent to you by e-mail. And thirdly, all that's written in the State Budget Act is adequately divided into the funds of the Supreme Council. What we gave was what we shared. I wish we had more, but we have what we have. We are considering the draft Decree on the annual report of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. [[Bill No. 10133]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:52:17]] For the 220. Supported. As told by Edward Pavlenko. Please, Edward Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u98	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! On February 7, 2012, Karpachov Nina Ivanovna, Commissioner for Human Rights of Ukraine, presented an annual report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. A report is prepared in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. As a result of the systematic monitoring of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights in Ukraine in 2011. The report gave special attention to the state of execution of judicial decisions, the protection of a person from torture, the protection of a child’s rights, and other acute problems today. For the first time, a separate chapter of the report highlighted the cooperation of the Commissioner with the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the authorities of the State and the local self-government of Ukraine on human rights and freedoms. Each chapter of the report contains analytical conclusions and specific recommendations on how to improve the status of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine and the rights of individual population groups, in accordance with international and European standards. According to part four of article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the annual report of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine takes a decision. At its meeting on 14 March 2012, the Committee reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annual report of the Commissioner for Human Rights on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine and unanimously decided to recommend a decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. [[Registration number 10133]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u99	Yes, thank you, the report is complete. Shall we discuss it? Then I put to the vote a proposal to adopt the decree on the annual report of the Human Rights Council of the United States of America on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. [[rRegistration number 10133]] Please vote. [[11:54:50]] For-137 They don't make a decision. Nina Ivanovna, I'm sorry, you don't have a word, because you don't. The factions. You have the right to speak when the procedure is not shortened. Yes, please. Regional Party 9, BUT 64, Our Ukraine 16, Communists 25, People's Party 1, Reforms 19, non-fractional 3. Nina Ivanovno, I can't break the Rules. Who, in order to allow two minutes to speak, please vote. [[11:55:44]] For 133 The offer is not supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the question is exhausted. Let's go to the second reading. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption. [[Registration number 9473]] Reports Valerius Ananiyovich Beavez, head of the Committee on Organized Crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! On February 7, the Ukrainian Supreme Council commissioned the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption to review and prepare for a second reading a bill on amending and supplementing some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Prevention and Anti-Corruption Act. The bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. But today there is a situation that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its first reading, has adopted a new draft of the Criminal Procedure Code. The Supreme Council recently voted on Ukraine’s new Customs Code. Amendments to a number of other legislative acts have been made. And so there's a situation where, in terms of content and form, this bill is all about reprocessing. In this regard, although the committee in due course considered the bill and recommended to the Supreme Council for consideration. But today we think it's still necessary to make a decision and send this bill to read again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, there are two suggestions. That's right, one suggestion, because it's made by the committee. Who asks him to be sent to read again. And this is also the proposal made by the General Legal Authority. So I'm betting on defining the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, if we do not now support the committee's proposal, we will consider it in the second amendment and make a decision. Let's write down the factions in a minute, because there's a lot of Europe waiting for the law. Please, Jaroslav Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u102	I beg your pardon, Prince Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I fully support the logic suggested by the committee head, he's right. Because the bill really needs to be worked out. But I'm pointing out that re-second reading is not going to solve anything. One more time, three more times, and the second reading won't solve anything. Because it's conceptually misdescribed from the very beginning. Thus, until the second reading of 116 articles, we cannot change it as required, including the International Convention and the Basic Law itself. And that's what I was talking about in the first reading of this issue. So our proposition: let's take a look at it, let's reject it, and let them pass a normal bill. And it's going to take forever to manage and try to patch up things that don't fly -- totally waste of time and, to me, stupid business. Because that's what the so-called anti-corruption campaign is losing, which is now supposed to be open. It's a shame she's becoming more and more "companion" every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u104	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I think the logic of the committee proposal is clear. We're adopting a new Code of Criminal Procedure. This is going to be a basic law, or the basis for the bill that is now proposed on the principles of prevention and anti-corruption, to revert to the second reading. It makes sense. So I think we should agree with this logic of a professional, professional and our committee of profile. That's why I support this proposal from the committee -- this bill to re-read.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u106	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u107	Valerius Ananiyovich Beviz, chairman of the committee, expressed a perfectly clear logic. What's the logic of this is to look at the table in the second reading and then do what we can do now? I can't see. So I think we need to trust, first of all, the thought of the experts working on the committee. And secondly, I don't think there's any point in looking at the content of the second reading right now. And that's why I agree with those who have talked about what needs to be voted on right now on the second reading back to the committee for further work. And in general, when the chairman of the committee makes a proposal, I think people who work on other committees should listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am thus voting on the proposal of a professional committee to re-read the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption. [[Registration number 9473]] Please vote. [[12:01:53]] For 265 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 32 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u109	I'm asking you, dear fellows, to take your seats. Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement is being announced for consideration. [[facilitating the procurement of goods, jobs and services by higher education institutions and research institutions]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Grigory Kaletnik. The Coroner is a member of the Economic Policy Committee, Irina Gorin. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[12:32:27]] For-195 Decision taken. Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, will not be a secret to anyone that, despite the funds allocated from the State Budget, educational institutions feel an acute need for finance. And these are the incomes that our educators and scientists get from services and manufacturing activities that result in updating the material and technical base, buying new learning tools, upgrading the housing fund. There's an absurd situation at all, there's not enough budget, and there's no motivation to increase own income. I'm not talking about the relevance of a tender when we're buying electricity, water, gas, student tickets, diplomas from one monopolist bidder. In such a situation, national educational institutions find it difficult to compete with the education system abroad. The main rate for the development of the educational institution and the education system is being taken abroad for the autonomy of educational institutions, as the President of Ukraine has repeatedly pointed out. By this bill, we propose to withdraw from the Act on State Procurement the purchase of goods, jobs and services that are purchased by higher education institutions and research institutions in Ukraine on account of their own incomes from their own economic activities. Dear colleagues, the question is very important and necessary, so I ask you to support the development of national education and science and to vote on the bill as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Irina Anatolyevna Gorin of the Committee on Economic Policy has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u112	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 21 February 2012, considered a bill on public procurement submitted by the Kaletnik People's MP and decided to support the bill as a whole as a law. [[No.9312]] Because those issues that have just been highlighted are indeed a stumbling block, and those funds, their own resources, which are made by universities, will be spent more quickly and efficiently in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Dmitri Schlemko. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I am still an idea of a general nature, then specifically of the bill. It seems to me that there is a clear need for tender purchases, and I have understood the strategy of how we can move on. So it's obvious that the sphere of culture, education, science that is barely surviving today needs our understanding in terms of not laughing at people, especially in rural areas. Because I was in Lochwich yesterday, I was meeting with teachers where they're conducting a tender to buy gas, power for schools in a monopolist. Because he's alone there, he doesn't exist, nobody's involved. When the President sent me a veto, because corruption, it turns out that rural libraries are going to buy Ukrainian books in publishing, it's corruption. Friends, you're sorry, of course, I'm not a billion corruption without solicitation to set up under the Euro, where soon Euro will be built, I don't know, oil already, and gas is Euro. So the area of education, science and culture needs to be analyzed and brought out of this nightmare, which happens because they don't have the money and the time, and we put them before we need to play in the tender purchase. On the other hand, all that matters is that construction, energy systems are hard to place under tender purchases. And it turns out we're working the other way around. The government is sending us a new bill not to conduct tender purchases and promising our parliamentary initiatives in support of science and education. We, the opposition and the Fatherland, will support this bill, because it's about the need for universities and science to have support. Moreover, let them manage their own resources, as they deem necessary. And once again, what I want to say is that we need systemic changes that would allow us to breathe out education, culture, science, because today they're facing the fact that they're actually going to survive, pay their wages and all that. That's why we're going to support this bill, both in the first and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u115	Valerius Kamchatny, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u116	On behalf of our group, we will speak on the sideline of the speaker, Ivan Ivanovich, to whom I ask you to give the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u117	Please, Ivanovich Sidelnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u118	Thank you, Comrade Kamchatny. Dear colleagues! The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future supports the legislative initiative to simplify the procurement of goods, jobs and services for higher education institutions and research institutions. Higher education institutions, although receiving funding from the State Budget, are in dire need of a redistribution of funds from the special fund. Such a redistribution is necessary for their effective use and support of individual structural units of higher education institutions. In addition, there is a sharp question about the updating of the material and technical and outdated university science and technology base. The bill proposes that goods, works and services that are purchased by higher education institutions and research institutions be removed from the scope of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. Taking this into account, the MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u119	Grivkowski. He's refusing. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I agree with Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko when he refers to what happens in the fields of education, science and culture when purchasing. Even more so, I agree with what is happening in the Euro area. You know, the roads that were built in Crimea under the roof, 80 percent under the roof, have already collapsed. [[Think about it!]] The autumns were repaired, tendered, the roads had already collapsed. Because of this, the suggestion of our fellow members of the national deputies of Kaletnik, Prestenka and Sidelnik that the goods, jobs and services that are purchased by higher education institutions and scientific research institutions should be removed from the scope of this law, it is perfectly correct if these funds are made on the basis of their own revenue. So there will be two actions in the rector accordingly: if he made his own money or his own collectives, he can use them without a tender, if this money is budgeted, he didn't make it himself, so there will be a public procurement procedure. It's absolutely fair in terms of the State budget and it's absolutely fair in order to encourage people to make more money. This applies to technical institutions, agricultural institutions, and humanitarian institutions, too, which are now severely limited in funding. Because of this, when I looked at the bill, I looked at what to do in the second reading. There's nothing to do. If we accept this bill as an ideology to support it, and I see that most factions have adopted that ideology, then we need to accept it as a whole and send it to the President for signature. I think the President would agree that higher education institutions should be stimulated to earn more of their own money. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u121	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u122	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, sometimes in pursuit of form, we lose substance and content. In pursuit of Europe, the European MPs, we are trying to implement the 120 per cent plan under the flag of adaptation of our legislation to European legislation. And when you start using it, it doesn't come up on your head. In this situation, therefore, perfectly right speakers who said that what seemed to be acceptable to European standards at an advanced rate was actually not simply a wake-up call, but a hindrance to the process at a higher school. That's why I think we need to support Mr. Carmazin and his proposal for the fact that the bill should not only be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! Please, Samuel Catherine Seed, microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u124	Thank you very much. I mean, whatever you say, Mikhail Vasilovich, we need to be supportive. He's not populist at all. It's a law that needs unlocking and scientific institutions today, and it's also necessary for them to get into a simplified purchasing procedure from school. Imagine that one enterprise, and we demand that there be not less than two similar businesses where goods or services can be purchased. And the school director or the head of the scientific institution, by the way, we have scientific institutions, scientific research institutes and in rural areas, in rural areas. And instead of organizing the process, they run to find a competitor and pay him money to take part in the tenders. So I suggest you accept the bill in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u125	Please, do you have everything? Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee in the corresponding letter proposes that it be adopted in the first reading and generally as a law. But at the same time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority made a note of the bill. The proposal, in accordance with the Rules, to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement is put to the vote. [[facilitating the procurement of goods, jobs and services by higher education institutions and research institutions]] [[Registration number 9312]] Please vote. [[12:44:59]] For 326 Decision taken. The proposal was about adopting the project as a whole as a law. Is there a denial? In view of the absence of comments, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the simplification of the procedure for the purchase of goods, jobs and services by higher education institutions and research institutions as a law]] [[Registration number 9312]] [[12:45:44]] For 331 The law is passed. A draft Law on the characteristics of the conversion of municipal unitary enterprises that operate in the field of centralized water, heating and water management is being announced. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[12:46:22]] For 217 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Alipov Alexander Mikolajovich. Prepare the committee to speak to Igor Lisova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u126	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposed for consideration is drafted in accordance with the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Presidential Economic Reform Programme. Today, the utility sector is not very attractive. Instead, one of the effective mechanisms for improving the management of utilities and investing in municipal infrastructure is the transformation of utilities into cooperatives. With a view to resolving this issue, the bill provides for it at the legislative level. The definition of a clear procedure for the conversion of municipal enterprises into households, which will provide for a mandatory stage of preparation; the possibility of converting municipal enterprises not only into public stock companies but also private equity companies and limited liability societies; the specificities of the statutory capital formation of such enterprises at the expense of municipal property; the requirements for the use and use of conservation measures that are not subject to privatization and the right of ownership and the use of which have been incorporated into the statutory capital of such enterprises; the requirements for the preservation of a certain proportion of the territorial communities where the statutory capital of such an enterprise. The adoption of the bill will allow for the creation of a proper legislative basis for the corporateization of utilities operating in the water, heating and water supply sectors; increase the efficiency of utilities and utilities; and increase private investment in water, sanitation and heat management. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u127	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who will be speaking from the committee? There is a deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy of Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the committee reviewed the bill on February 22, this year, and decided to support a government legislative initiative. Because given the difficult material state of the enterprise in the central water sector, heat and water supply, its implementation will allow investment in these enterprises. This project will allow for the establishment of procedures and conditions at the legislative level for the conversion of municipal enterprises into commercial societies, ensure a balance of interests in the process of such transformation and further activities, both the territorial community of the owner of municipal property and the newly created company of both the user and the user. The main scientific and expert office determines that a draft of the first reading may be adopted on the basis of the following observations. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the implementation of the bill had no impact on the budget. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be adopted on the basis of a second reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u129	Thank you, too. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, for discussion, if necessary, please sign in. Yes, Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u130	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens! The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill in the first reading. In view of the fact that this is really the first step to attract additional financial flows to such an unprofitable one today, at first glance, the water supply, water supply, and heat supply. What do we have today? Well, especially with regard to water supply and water supply. Ukraine is going through a major war for assets that today have the status of the KP, a utility. Anyone in this country, well, these savvy plots, wants to find ways to get the right to use such monopolies, and, most importantly, to form tariff policies at the very point to which they refer. For example, among my associates, there was a great problem when the head of the Ishmael Water Channel was deprived of his post simply because he was protecting the interests of the territorial community and protecting it at a level that even reduced the total rates of water supply and water supply. There are, of course, positive things here. The fact that we're finally going to ask the question between concession and investing in investment. We're not going to twist that question. We do, indeed, give assurances to future investors. But we need to ask each other questions about the second reading, and how to tackle such narrow questions as the transfer of ownership to an investor by getting additionally simulated shares of one or another society, it's possible. And the second question. The practice of investing in municipal property that is not to be privatized appears to be questionable. Well, I don't think it's clear how and how an investor is going to invest in this property. That is what we generally support, but for the second reading, we ask that we correct the matter together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u131	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u132	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Clearly, this area needs some kind of step, because there is no, I would say, serious step towards reforming the residential sector, and especially those sectors that are monopolies in the provision of electricity, gas, heat. But will this law give any impetus in this direction? I don't think so. First of all, I would like our current active ministry to accept the proposals that come out, including our Cabinet of Ministers, which makes such proposals. The point is that the formation of tariff policies should be transparent and clear. The point is that a public accounting of the services provided should be arranged to make it clear who is to whom. The law must be the responsibility between the provider and the consumer of these services. Until these elements are active, any transfer of property, and it's already being done in a slippery order today. In Kiev, the management of an outstanding Donetsk oligarch is already fully in control of Kiyevenergo and other systems. But did they put at least one penny in here? Oh, no. They distributed spheres of influence, programmed huge insurance activities for 1 billion 200 million dollars in Kiev, and insured objects. They don't repair, they don't translate, they do insurance. Which makes it hard for the Chinese to understand. Therefore, this law is very dangerous for local communities that will completely lose their influence on the system of tariff formation, but also on the administration of the system. In particular, Kiev has for several years not been able to confirm the thermal schedule of the Kiyivenergo network. It doesn't give anyone the right and the opportunity to go to court. Such injustice, the unfairness of the law that arises, is caused only by the monopolies who today know that no one will give them any heat, no water, nothing else. That's why I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u133	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u134	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, I will not support this disgraceful government initiative. It's as disgraceful as the privatisation of the Crucifixion. Think about it, the President's only signed the law, and there's already a reduction in two sections of four in each railway. Think about it, it's just a signed law, and there's a reduction in people. They're just offering to throw people out on the street. In this situation, we will have things that we have been warned about for a long time and that we ourselves can see that the way to privatizing property that belongs to the territorial community is opening up, and that law actually replaces the Ukrainian legislation on privatization. Thus, there is no special feature of the transformation of enterprises operating in the field of centralized water-, heat- and water-supply, nor is there any such feature. Instead, there are features that are enshrined in this law regarding privatization. Please read article 8. It says, "The alienation of shares, the part of the agricultural society that belongs to the territorial community, is carried out in accordance with the privatization legislation. In the event of the alienation of shares or the placement of additional shares of a public shareholder association, whose statutory capital is entitled to use municipal property that is not subject to privatization, more than 60 per cent of the shares of that association should remain in the property of the relevant territorial community." Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to point out that we're making such laziness around here, and then we're paying off everything for the debt. And this is an example of the fact that the government doesn't want to solve these issues in central order and help communities. I'm not going to support this proposal from the government, and I'm not going to advise you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Voline, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u136	Eugenia Wolynec, Communist faction, Schachtersk, Donetsk. As colleagues have already said, this law is indeed intended to pave the way for privatization. Similarly, we see other industries as the so-called effective owners who promise to invest in the production of certain funds, without investing a penny, draw the latter out of production. We see here that this situation is going to be in this sector. And when all the resources of these water-supply messages are drawn to the last opportunity, then either this will be options: to transfer to the State completely destroyed enterprises in which huge money will have to be invested; or this will, as usual, be transferred to the shoulders of ordinary citizens, who will be forced to either by their own account or by the budget, as well as at their own expense to restore the economy. It's a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u137	Please complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u138	The Communist faction won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the characteristics of the conversion of municipal unit enterprises that operate in the field of centralized water-, heating and water management, to households. [[Registration number 9631]] Please vote. [[12:59:00]] For 234 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the conduct of public purchases. [[9451]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[12:59:34]] For 217 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the State Agency for Science, Innovation and Information, Boris Viktorovich Greenov. Irina Gorin will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We all enjoy the idea that Ukraine, despite all the difficulties, remains a country with considerable scientific and technological potential. We have the task of bringing the country out to the 20 most technologically developed countries. Without strong financial support from science, this task is virtually impossible to solve. At the same time, even when certain funds are allocated to science to use them, scientists spend more time on bureaucratic procedures than on research itself. In no developed country in the world, scientific research is the subject of open tendering when it comes to research that is chosen on terms of competitive selection of the best ideas. In Ukraine, however, when the customer conducts an open competition on scientific projects, which usually lasts up to two months, he still has to conduct an additional open tender procedure to select the winners' executive projects. As a result, government contractors are forced to spend up to 8 months carrying out all necessary procedures. Yes, when competitive procedures are launched after budgetary allocations are made for the approval of passports for the budget programmes in February-month, the costs to the project's contractors come in September. And there's 3-4 months left to do the job. Quite often there are cases where it is not possible to find a rival to a unique winning project. In order to make purchases with one participant, it is necessary that open tenders are cancelled twice. As a result, the money will reach the contractor in December, when there is no point in making such a contract at all. Dear colleagues! Scientific research is not a once-in-a-lifetime purchase of equipment, it's a long-term process that takes time to execute. On the one hand, we need to maximize the duration of all procedures, on the other hand, to ensure transparency in the use of budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u141	Finish up. Do you have everyone? Thank you. Irina Anatolovna Gorina will report to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u142	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 6 December 2011, considered Bill 9451 proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill as a basis. The situation has just been clearly described by the previous rapporteur, and I think that we should support our science and give the projects selected by the Cabinet of Ministers the opportunity to go through the public procurement procedure under the reduced purchase procedure of one buyer, because there is a very subtle specificity of work and science, indeed, that many things cannot be done in the last days of December, when money actually appears, under such a procedure of 75 days. The Committee therefore requests the adoption of a bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. National Deputy Corge. You're a pain in the ass, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u144	I give the word to Hanushtak to my colleague, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u145	Please, microphone, Pantyhuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u146	Hanustak Yuri, "BUT is the Fatherland." Gentlemen, we have it. Look, this project itself is contradictory. So we're buying in one, but we're still doing the competition. In fact, buying is always a relationship with third parties. And that's why it can't be regulated by Kabmin. And that's why there's a huge need, and Tomenko's already suggested this, to bring our Procurement Act into line, and to very clearly describe the conduct of the services themselves, the purchases and the services themselves. It's easy enough just to do this: you take the standard World Bank documentation, you have huge tender procedures masters in the faction. The vendors of the solicitors' chambers, the people who patented even the World Bank's standard documentation, can't you just do that? And you make such bills! They don't solve the problem, because we still have to do the competition, we still have to write how to do it, it's still intellectual stuff. But you can't do that with Kabmin's decision, because it's actually called "corruption." If only public authorities, i.e. competition between public authorities, then yes, it is a normal delivery, if it is a third party outside, it can only be regulated by law. Don't fool yourself, after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u147	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Bondarenko, will you be speaking? No, I'm sorry, this is Bondarenko, the faction of the Party of Regions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no! He's refusing too, isn't he? Then Valérie Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the MP's Reform Group for the Future, I would like to thank my countryman, the talented scientist Grinov Boris Viktorovich, who has just very clearly explained the absurdity of certain norms that we need to change with you today on the issue of public procurement for scientific and scientific and technical projects. In fact, this is an absolute absurdity that needs to be changed today, and it's not an accident that this initiative is supported by many scientific institutions in the city of Kharkiv, which I think is the scientific center of Ukraine. It is also symbolic that a harpian woman reported from the committee. So we ask you to support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! To remind our audience, Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko is a member of the Faction "BUT – "Fatherhood". Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! To say that the bill does not solve the problem can be said only by someone who does not know life. The open trade procedure has long since prevented the timely execution of important and necessary scientific research and technological developments for the State. I can tell you who wants to talk about this, for example, the State Institute of Titan, the KGB of Progress, the State Penitentiary Enterprise of Iskra, Topaz, Hartron and other industrial enterprises that have scientific research on them. It's a different matter. These things need to be done on a competitive basis, so that these things are done by avoiding monopolism. That's why this bill is so necessary, it will overcome bureaucraticism. And here's what experts estimate, if we accept it, the services from doing scientific work will be reduced from 90 days to 20 days. So today the customer is putting the main task in order to shorten this procedure. I'd like to support you in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the project as a basis. The main scientific and expert office has made a number of critical remarks to the bill. I focus on this, and I ask you to take into account the committee's future work if the bill is adopted for further work. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the conduct of public procurement. [[Registration number 9451]] Please vote. [[13:08:50]] For 255 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of powers of State authorities in the field of natural monopolies and in the field of communications is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9750]] The Economic Policy Committee suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[13:09:32]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Kuzmin Rafael Izmailovich, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaajovich Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u152	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill, which is proposed for your consideration, provides for changes to laws that determine the basic principles of state regulation in the areas of natural monopolies and telecommunications, namely laws on natural monopolies and telecommunications. It is also proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act. The need for changes to laws on natural monopolies and on telecommunications is linked to two reasons. For one thing, over 10 years since the adoption of the Law on Natural Monopolies, there have been virtually all spheres where appropriate regulatory commissions have been created. By performing the functions of regulation, they have the capacity to get information about market participants, and they have the status on them. Secondly, the system set out in the laws on natural monopolies and telecommunications foresees that regulation, i.e. licensing, tariffing, consumer access to natural monopolies and telecommunications, is carried out by one regulator authority. Here is the inclusion of specific enterprises in the list of those subject to regulation placed on the Antimonopoly Committee. In fact, it just means double doing the same job. Because by performing licensing functions, regulators still determine who operates in the relevant markets. But the Antimonopoly Committee should do the same. So the resources of the public authorities are being wasted irrationally. In order to address the problems noted, it is proposed to amend articles 3, 13, 14 of the Law on Natural Monopolies, which would allow regulators to define the subject matter on their own. In doing so, housing and transportation have some differences that emerge from the specificities of their regulation. The Telecommunications Act proposes to determine the only basis for regulating the status of an operator, a provider of telecommunications with a significant market advantage.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u153	Yes, please, microphone, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u154	with a significant market advantage to be determined by a regulator commission. The approach is not new; it is used especially in telecommunications regulation in the European Union. The bill before you was considered and recommended for adoption by the Committee on Economic Policy and the Committee on Transport and Communications in the first reading. People's deputies would like to support him and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u155	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev, deputy chairman of the committee Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u156	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy considered the bill at its meeting on 21 February this year and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on first reading as a basis. The main purpose of this bill is, first in our view, to clearly delineate borders, powers between the various State bodies governing natural monopolies in the field of communication and with the Antimonopoly Committee. And the second challenge is, it is purely technical, to adjust, from the legal point of view, a number of bills. The Chief Research and Expert Office has a reference to this bill. But they're not conceptual, they're technical. The Chief Research and Expert Office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis and further elaborated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u157	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the exchange of information on this bill. Yes. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Yuri Carmazin? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u158	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I sincerely thank Stanislav Arjevetina for the opportunity to express my position. And I would like, in a word, to describe this bill as such, that nothing good will come from the Ukrainian consumer, as will all the activities of Prime Minister Azarov's government. The years, the second anniversary, of which we have recently marked and marked the failures that have been made. Why do I claim that there will be nothing good about this law? If you look closely at the scientific expertise, they're conceptual, not technical, as the committee has just said. Because a new edition of article 3, paragraph 2, of the Antitrust Committee Law proposes that the main tasks of the Committee in the area of the formation and implementation of competition policy are to monitor compliance with the requirements of economic competition legislation when regulating the prices of goods produced are implemented by natural monopolies. Imagine, in price regulation, that kind of formulation. And before that, i.e. now, valid, active yet, definition of a little bit different. I'll read it. "Controlling prices for goods produced by natural monopolies, as provided for in the current edition." [[tariffs]] [[implemented]] As a result, this edition, which is now being proposed, according to scientific and expert management, will not contribute to effective countering the monopolistic trends of natural monopolies, as they can unjustifiably increase prices without violating the current legislation on the protection of economic competition. [[tariffs]] In this regard, I feel that this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u159	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u160	I'm done. In this regard, I feel that this does not improve the law but makes it worse. In addition to everything else, I also think that the other observations that have been written by the scientific and scientific authorities have to be heard. And it's better not to change the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u161	Thank you, too. National Deputy Corge, Faction BUT is Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u162	Ukraine's draft Law is designed to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian State Economic and Social Development Programme 2010 approved by the Ukrainian Act of 20.05.2010, which provides for the development of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, together with other central executive bodies, of the draft Act. [[No.2278]] At present, a regulatory model is in place when the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine conducts market research and the definition of subjects for regulatory purposes. And direct regulation of the spheres of natural monopolies and telecommunications is carried out by the regulator. Such a mechanism is ineffective. Therefore, the project proposes to limit the power of regulators to the definition of fish - management entities in natural monopolies and adjacent markets to eliminate duplication of government functions in the area of pricing control. In addition to expanding the mandate of the National Commission, which regulates national communications and information in relation to market analysis and the identification of telecommunications operators with a significant market advantage in the telecommunications market. The adoption of the project, in the opinion of the government, will create conditions for improving the effectiveness of regulatory measures in the field of natural monopolies and in the field of communication, and will contribute to effective competition policies. As a result of the consideration of this bill, the Committee on Transport and Communications proposes to support the draft in its first reading. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u163	Finish up, please, into the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u164	But I would like to draw attention to the fact that before this bill, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has concluded. These remarks should be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u165	Yes, the distinguished national MPs, the discussion, and this matter have been concluded. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of powers of state authorities in the areas of natural monopolies and in the field of communications. [[Registration number 9750]] Please vote. [[13:20:05]] For 260 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of psychiatric care to persons who are in custody. [[9437]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:20:41]] For 223 Decision taken. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u166	Vladimir Mihajlović, there is a joint request from both the Government and the factions of the Party of the Regions to postpone consideration of this issue to a later date, to remove it altogether from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u167	Let's do it this way. The committee proposes that the subject be reinstated from the right of legislative initiative for further development. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill as such should be returned to work because it has significant observations. So, I think if you don't mind, and the committee proposes to put to the vote a motion to withdraw from the bill registration number 9437. Please vote. [[13:21:57]] For 307 Decision taken. The bill was removed. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Publishing Act. [[in the field of publishing subjects]] Please vote. [[13:22:33]] For the 220. Decision taken. The reporter is the first deputy head of the State Television and Radio Committee, Murachovsky Anatoly Leonidovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the national parliament, is submitting to your consideration a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Publishing. There's a publishing law in force today. It was adopted in 1997. And we've analyzed it, we've seen that the standards of today's law don't match the current state of the publishing business, and we need some improvements. In addition, the order of keeping the State Register of Publishers, Producers and Publishers needs to be brought into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Free Economic Activities. [[on the conduct of business activities on the basis of a declaration]] Since one of the priority issues of national regulatory policy today is the simplification of the activities of operators, changes to the Publishing Law have been needed. The amendments and additions proposed by the bill are aimed at improving the rules governing publishing activities in Ukraine, for example, detailing the procedures for bringing the subject of the publishing business to the State Register of Publishers and Producers, and the distribution of publishing products, excluding the register, determine the requirements for the output, the publications, and the introduction of the declarant principle of publishing activities in the field of publishing. In other words, if a witness issued by the State Committee on Television and Radio was to be obtained earlier in the publishing work, it is now submitted to the State Register by means of a message from the subject desiring to start publishing. In addition, a somewhat improved understanding apparatus, a terminology apparatus in this bill. I'd like to ask you to approve of our proposals. I'll say it's pretty accurate and relevant observations from science management. We'll take them into account in the drafting of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u169	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u170	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, which is the origin of this bill, why did it appear in the plans for our consideration of our bills? The thing is, here Mr. Anatoly has already said, I just want to point out once again that you and I have passed a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities on the basis of the application of a declaration. Moreover, given that a decree had been adopted prior to that by the Cabinet of Ministers that approved the provisions on the State Register of Publishers, Producers and Publishers of Publishing had been adopted, it was clear that all these works should be made in other bills, amendments should be made to the bill on publishing. I mean, in the already existing law, to apply those new legislative motivations that you and I have adopted here. That's why you're aging for it. That we need this bill just-just doesn't have to be, because we've made our own way for these amendments and they have to be implemented today. It's pure technolo. purely technical. He's not making any special changes, let's say, to the bill itself. It's a publishing law. He's just setting up nominal so-called moments in this bill. That's why I want to say it again. I don't think we need to discuss this bill. The committee supported him unanimously, unanimously. He was also supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. But with this opportunity, when I touch on this important subject, I would like to say something else. You and I, my fellow dignitaries, have literally adopted a whole bunch of bills in that week that are actually almost repealing the rules of government procurement of goods and services. We gave one discount to another, to another. I'm so impressed, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u171	Thank you. It's a little bit from another opera. Have a seat, please. Yes, have a seat, please. Are there speakers? Sign up. Please, Poman Zabzaluk. After him, Arjevitin. In Argentina, ask him why he was able to sign you up earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u172	I give the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u173	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, in general, the logic of the need to uphold the bill is that, indeed, we will support the purity of legislation in the area of registration and regulation of the activities of publishing entities. Instead, if we get out of the articles that the government is bringing us, and on behalf of the government of the State of Derteradio, I'm afraid that might complicate the situation, because, as our legal experts put it, it means, in fact, language is going to be additional. In fact, an additional document is proposed for the subject of publishing activity. the arbitrary character that they need to be given in order to get into this register. You know, we've been fighting over a bunch of drafts to reduce the number of permits, and in fact, it turns out that publishing should have another document. So I think that between the first and the second readings, you have to write this way so that there's no doubt that we're exacerbating the conditions for the economic activity of publishing. The second position, the bill is overloaded by the general rules that we are fighting with today, I mean by the content that the State is providing a socially necessary publication that is necessary for the functioning of the legislative, executive, judicial authorities. We are fighting that those miserable 40 million or 20 million earlier don’t publish books of officials, officials, governors, but it turns out that now let’s send these funds to support us. Ukrainian education and culture and basic publications must be supported. And the second. I'd like to ask Derjteleradio, and Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, maybe we should have had a conversation where this initiative came from, why, despite our claims, we have the Ministry. And Deirteleradio constantly wants to privatize all the remaining district prints, publishing with hundreds of acres of land? What good is it for the Ukrainian publication, for the Ukrainian book, that everything should be privatized without the consent of local self - government and so on? I've been talking over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again I'm told that the State Department and the Ministry of Education say that the end is going to be a Ukrainian book if they don't privatize the district prints that are the basis of the bookkeeping. So I'd like to take this up, too, because we're dealing with secondary issues of publishing, and we're not focusing on basics.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u175	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Who? Mikola Kulchinsky will be. Then Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm actually surprised at the appearance of this bill. And I agree with Tomenko's words. Nevertheless, I will emphasize why I am surprised by the appearance of this document. Because you can argue about some problems, about the existence of the State Register, whether it's good or bad -- you can argue here. But there can be no dispute when the fundamental value of Ukrainian nationality is thrown out. I'll read to you that people and MPs understand what this is about. "Ensure access to the public value of Ukrainian society through the translation into the national language of the best achievements of world literature, science and so forth, cooperation with foreign publications, the Ukrainian diaspora, the conclusion of relevant international agreements." [[That's the law that exists today.]] This article is thrown out, and this item is thrown out completely. And this reminds me of the decree of the famous Valoveva, which prohibited translation of the world classic in Ukrainian, the theatre exhibitions were banned in Ukrainian, and some of the Ukrainian directors were even forced not to translate the songs into the language of the invaders in the performances, because even the songs of the Ukrainians were forbidden. They were translated into French so as not to sing in the language of the invaders. But every culture is enriched by translation. And the people who wrote the previous law understood that. Today’s government does not understand, accepts, and deletes the founding article of this bill. And I don't think it's about technical things, it's about this point. Instead, they wrote, the drafters of the bill, the government: the release of publications in the languages of the national smaller Ukraine, including Russian to meet their cultural and educational needs. But that's what it is. It's just another way of saying it. No one discriminates against anyone, but the main point is that Ukrainian society, by enriching its Ukrainian culture, makes translations of the Ukrainian language, is thrown out. From that point of view, I'm impressed by that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u177	Thank you. Pavel Mokchan, then – Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u178	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It was understandable that this point, defined by Mikola Kulczynski, changed the ideology of the law. It's not just technical, as Vladimir Aleksandrovitch said, but it's a very important ideology. And that's why our "Reforms for the Future" faction can support this bill on the condition that we re-establish the position in the previous bill, that is, in the previous version. And you understand, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we need to hold parliamentary hearings on "The Ukrainian Book," because this is a major problem of a national scale. And I'm just taking this opportunity to support Mikola Volodymyrovich's speech that the issue of the Ukrainian Book is extremely hot. And then I would ask Parliament to support this ideology, and this law, and these hearings, because it's not just what Culczynski said, it's about everything that's called.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u179	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u180	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Why are we looking around for stupid politics? There's no politics here. This law proposes to clarify the order of the subjects of the publishing business in the public register of publishers, manufacturers, and distributors of and exclusion from the publishing industry. It is proposed that the central authority of the executive branch be clarified by the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of television and radio. The adoption of this law will allow for the improvement of the mechanism for the introduction of a national register of publishers, publishers, and distributors of publishing products by introducing a declaration principle for the conduct of economic activity in the field concerned. That's why there's no politics here. And the faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt this law as a basis and to make some suggestions, comments on the second reading procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u181	Please, it's Vladimir Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Yavorowski. I have had some very interesting discussions, and very good and serious comments have been made. I just want to remind my colleague, whom I also fully support, Kulčicki, of the fact that the law that has been passed remains fundamental. We're going to be, the committee, so to speak, sifting through those amendments that are being made, the amendments are purely technological. And that place Kulczytsky said, we're going to do everything we can to keep it in the body of the bill. As a result, I ask the opposition to vote in favour of this bill. Once again, you're right, the committee fully supports you, and we're going to make all these amendments to the second reading. And another thing I want to remind you, Adam Ivanovich wouldn't let me know. The most painful question in the bookstore today is the holding of tenders. I say again, the law has been passed, you voted for it, but for some reason the President vetoed it. And we have a huge problem today when we're freeing the whole sector from tenders by voting here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u183	Finish up, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u184	And instead, we would just have to really get rid of the books when it comes to buying books, that would be very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that a bill can be adopted as a basis for further work on it. I am voting on this proposal, namely, the adoption as the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Publishing. [[in the field of publishing subjects]] 9447. Please vote. [[13:37:39]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is given to the draft Act amending articles 9 and 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[Registration number 9779]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[13:38:16]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich. Correspondent is Head of the Social Policy Committee at Vasil Georgievovich Hara. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to specify the duration of the payment of the single contribution by natural persons entrepreneurs who have chosen a simplified system of taxation. To this end, the draft Ukrainian Law provides for the first time that the individuals entrepreneurs who have chosen a simplified system of taxation and their families pay the only contribution to the Pension Fund quarterly, which will allow for a rhythmic flow of funds to the Pension Fund and reduce the amount of the loan from the State budget during the year. In doing so, it is suggested that the periodicity of reporting for this category of payers should be maintained once a year. And lastly, the bill proposes to harmonize with the Tax Code the single contribution to entrepreneurs in the general tax system and to self-employed persons, i.e. lawyers, notaries and others. Since these individuals pay the only income payment they determine in the tax report, the bill suggests that they be paid the only payment period that comes after the deadline for submitting this tax report on the income of the natural person. That is, 40 calendar days after the end of the year and 1 May of the following year. The implementation of the Ukrainian bill does not require additional costs from government and local budgets. Please accept. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u187	Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! The project proposes to synchronize payment and reporting to entrepreneurs, both in the Ukrainian Tax Code and in the Collection and Accounting Act. It is proposed that the payment of a single contribution be changed for individuals and self-employed persons. Since the current law does not actually comply with the time-limits for payment and reporting to entrepreneurs and self-employed persons for themselves and for employees. That is, the current standard assumes that payments and reporting should be made monthly and that employees should be paid once a year. The real system works the other way around. As employees are paid monthly and accounted for. And entrepreneurs get their money, their income, at the end of the year. Concerning the general tax system. Under existing legislation, they are required to pay contributions monthly. But since payers pay a single contribution of net income, which is determined at the end of the year, they must pay contributions at the end of the year. About a simplified tax system. The project is intended to set a quarterly time limit for the payment of a single contribution to individuals who have chosen a simplified system of taxation. A positive factor is that the establishment of a clear time frame for the payment of a single contribution, which will ensure a balanced, planned income to the Ukrainian Pension Fund and social insurance funds, the balance of their budget and the timely monthly payment of citizens. The Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 14 March and proposes to adopt it as a basis. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u189	Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for a discussion if you need to. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u190	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, well, this bill, he's certainly a little surprised. The government says that they are struggling to keep the Pension Fund full. And how do they fight? And they offer businesses, individuals not on a simplified system of taxation, that is, they can earn enough income, they can pay to the Pension Fund and other social insurance funds once a year. My friends, today they pay every month. How, then, do we improve our arrival? On the contrary, we take away the coming. On the other hand, they say they're doing something good for simplify entrepreneurs. Nothing like that, simplifying entrepreneurs are reporting once a quarter today and paying once a quarter of these contributions along with reporting. In fact, what's changing? So we want to do someone a favor? Lawyers or notaries so that they can pay once a year. But I'm not sure it's the job of the Supreme Council to do that. When it comes to synchronization with the code, my friends, this is achieved worldwide by way of recalculation, the year after which the liabilities are counted or counted. But the filling period is exactly quarterly. It seems to me that the government has outsmarted itself, and such a law should not be supported, because somehow for a small business, there are no advantages at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u191	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u192	The honourable colleagues, the substance and content of the bill were understood, expressed by both the prime minister and the chairman of the committee. I don't understand the logic. So reporting and paying the premiums are a little bit different things. So when we ask ourselves now, what's going to win the budget? Nothing. It's normalized and unified. What Will Entrepreneurs Win? Nothing either. Some small group wins, maybe there's people there, but it doesn't mean anything at all. On the committee, when this bill was discussed, the same questions were asked by employers. They said, "So why is it that, in fact, a bill like this came into existence?" The explanatory note makes it clear that this is for the purpose of improving the laws of Ukraine. The laws of all of us do not have limits for their improvement. But there has to be some kind of legislative, legislative, legislative logic, if you want. She's not in this bill. So I don't know if maybe this bill is going to be a basis and then work on it. It can now be accepted simply as a whole, for it clearly describes what to do with the circle. But I think it would be appropriate if we added to this bill an expert assessment of which of our State Enterprise Committees to give their perspective, their vision. Budgets are not good, entrepreneurs are not good, they're good for officials. I therefore doubt the need to adopt such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u193	Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u194	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Just as the Labour and Social Policy Committee considered this bill, so at the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, we considered this bill. And no doubt we were concerned about the first question of whether or not we would have lost the adoption of this law for the Pension Fund, as well as for targeted insurance funds. And certainly, the chairman of Zajczuk Boris Alexandrovich's Pension Fund met with this question and received a positive answer that there are no insurance funds for the Pension Fund. As for the purpose of adopting this law, as for me, it is to harmonize, if you want, the synchronization of the Tax Code and the Collection Act. So the faction is going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee, I remind you once again, is proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office supports this conclusion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending articles 9 and 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection, the calculation of a single contribution to the general government social insurance. [[Registration number 9779]] Please vote. [[13:48:23]] For 304 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the wages of joining natural monopolies is being announced for consideration. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:48:54]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the committee, Mikola Martinenko. We continue the morning session for 15 minutes. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, the committee's draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on wages for joining the network of natural monopolies subjects is proposed. [[Registration number 9011]] The bill is pre-existing. Thus, on October 4, 2011, during its consideration by the Supreme Council, a number of comments and suggestions were expressed and a decision was made to return the draft to work and to re-read it. During the drafting of the bill, the positions of the wide range of experts in the field, the national deputies, were taken into account. This greatly improves the order of the contracting party to join the networks of natural monopolies and to pay for such association. The amended bill harmonizes the types of electrical connection of the contracting authorities. In particular, the standard connection is to join an electrical transmission network with a capacity of up to 16 kilowatts up to 300 metres on a direct line from the customer's land to the power supply point. It is suggested that the cost of a connection that does not fall within the standard connection category is determined by the project-cost documentation that is proportionally ordered before the power is connected. The main difference in the work done can be seen as the creation of legislative rules for financing the connection if a deep reconstruction of the power grid is needed above 35 kilowatts. The previous edition referred to the reconstruction of the network up to 35 kilowatts. The bill provides that an electrical transmission organization does not have the right to refuse to provide services to the customer by joining the electrical network. Regarding gas networks, the bill lays down basic principles for connecting newly built or reconstructed gas networks to Ukraine’s single gas transport system. In particular, changes are made to the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u198	In particular, changes are made to the basic law on the principles of the functioning of the natural gas market. The new rules establish that the construction of the components of Ukraine’s single gas transport system is provided for by investment programmes and financed by the cost of transport tariffs and natural gas distribution, the payment of connection services, the return of financial assistance to loan customers and other sources provided for by valid legislation. The cost of connecting gas supplies to Ukraine’s single gas transport system is formed by gas transport or gas distribution companies, resulting from the structure and characteristics of the gas network according to the order of calculation of the pay for the connection of customers to the gas networks approved by the NCRE. Please support the Committee's decision of 8 February 2012 and adopt the draft amended bill. [[Registration number 9011]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u199	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names of the national MPs, please. Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Potov is Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u200	Please hand over Vladimir Dmitri Bondarenko, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u201	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u202	Dear friends, this is a very important question. In Ukraine, monopolies, who provide electricity and gas, have become dictators, have created conditions for providing bribes of various costs. Some skyscrapers simply dictate prices that do not bind to anything. In our time with the former Minister of Energy of Ukraine, we discussed this issue. There was a large group of deputies. And today we're back to the old practice, especially Kiwoblanergo, the Carpathian Blanche, where hundreds of letters from the builders come from. There's a direct dictatorship coming. So we need to get these monopolies repositioned, put them in a normal market situation, but that takes into account the potential of the people who put the specific areas there, housing in the whole of Ukraine. Today's bill offers this opportunity if it is worked out and adopted in a way that would ensure an equal relationship between Oblenergo and citizens and legal persons involved in the merger. Today, they are an unequal relationship between the monopolistic and the dependent. Because where do you get the electricity if it comes from just one place? And the fact that today electrical power plants are more powerful than before, you also have to take into account, people have different engines, there are some adjustments for heating housing, because there is no hope that gas will be provided on a permanent basis. So I would like to urge everyone, and those who are in power today, and in opposition, to consider that they can't be dictators of any organization or private Obelenergo, must uphold the rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u203	Paul Mochan, the MP's group "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u204	Please pass the word to Peter Petrovich Gajsuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u205	Peter Heisuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u206	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The "Reforms for the Future" faction reviewed the bill and supported its adoption in the first reading, based on the following considerations. The bill improves today’s tariff system for the transmission and supply of electricity and for transport and distribution of natural gas and foresees a mechanism for taking into account losses associated with the integration of electricity and gas supplies into new consumers or increasing the capacity of existing ones. The bill provides for procedures for determining the order and the extent of the fees for connection, determining the sources of funding, and other issues relating to the integration of applicants into these engineering networks are addressed. In preparing the bill for second reading, we thought it would be appropriate to make some changes to the term 'energy supply' at the same time as the introduction of the concept of 'electric transmission'. In particular, it is necessary to determine at the level of the law that the energy suppliers are the skynergos who have two licenses – the transmission and supply of electricity. That is, they perform the functions of an electrical transmission organization and actually solve the issue of connecting to electricity networks. In addition, the introduction of the notion of "place of connection of the electrical installation" instead of the traditional notion of "point of connection" could lead to unwarranted complications. With regard to connection to the gas supply system, the bill provides for mandatory transfer to ownership or gas - based knowledge and the use of gas transport or gas distribution companies by pipelines built by entities that are not licensed for transport or distribution of natural gas. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office made a number of remarks to the bill. I'd like to take that into account. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to pay for joining the networks of natural monopolies. Registration number 9011. [[13:57:53]] For 318 The draft law was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, that's the situation. I'm asking you to listen to me carefully. Since the two factions here have applied for a recess, there is such an offer. The point is that we have agreed with you on a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure that the oil and gas complex is reformed, which we will consider. One minute, I'll let you know what happened, then your position. I beg of you, fellows of honor! We agreed that this will be considered, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will support the project by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin to remove any fears, warnings about possible potential hypothetical privatization of the gas transport system. And it's not a good language, dear fellows. I ask you to listen. Listen to me, please. And it's not at all that someone here has a hand to vote for the privatization of the gas transport system. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, you may have a different opinion, I say. You can count on that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, I'm gonna take a break, if you want, Adam Ivanovich is gonna be holding a meeting, and I'm gonna go hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. You don't have to! Dear colleagues, we've already had cases like this, let's make a deal that we're calling a break, then they're blocking the rostrum. Once again, I teach the Rules, let us abide by the Rules. So let's find a way out of here. I'd like to ask you now, my dear fellows, to consider the issue in the paper offered by Yuri Carmazin. And the second. If anyone fears that there may be changes during second reading, article 116 will never put me to the vote if there is interference in other articles and it will be about what is called a change. May I have your attention, please? If there's going to be another attempt at blocking, then, honourable colleagues, I've spoken, consulted with other factions, then factions will insist, including the Party of Regions, on a government bill, you know, which will be supported. So I'd like to ask that we keep it. I'm asking you to keep the arrangements with us. Let's take a look and propose. Please! The Conciliation Council stated that there would be no objection to the matter. I beg of you, fellows of honor! That's why I have this offer. Let's take a look at Yuri Carmazin's project. Don't block it, please. I would even ask if. Let's take it as a whole as a law. Come on, don't deny it, I'd like to ask you! Otherwise, your honors, well, I'm asking you, otherwise I'll ask you to stick with me. Listen to me to hold on. To hold on. Dear colleagues, please, let's all take our seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please sit down! I don't know! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I ask Adam Ivanovich to hold a meeting for one minute, and I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to meet in the head office. I'm asking the leaders of the MPs and factions to meet in the Head's office, and Adam Ivanovich will continue the sessions. Because now they're blocking the rostrum, and there'll be no work left. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for these two bills to be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[2:02:04]] For 216 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation is being announced for consideration with a view to ensuring reform of the oil and gas complex. Makuha reports. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u209	Please, you have a microphone in there, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u210	Dear National Deputies! Well, why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u211	Volodymyr Alexiovich, are you reporting or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Report!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u212	Dear National Deputies! [[The voice from the hall. The Law on the Privatization of the Gas Transport System cannot be adopted! You can't!]] This is a betrayal of Ukraine’s national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u213	The bill is prepared for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u214	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u215	The break will be when the law provides. You want me to put it to a vote? Now I'm going to put it to a vote and a decision will be made. You do, don't you? Very simple, very simple. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on a bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure the reform of the oil and gas complex. The bill is designed to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations through the implementation of the Energy Partnership Treaty. The bill does not provide for the removal of the prohibition of privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u217	Yes, please, Carmazine. () [[B in m in s a l in]] There'll be a discussion if you give it. That's how it's gonna be! Yuri Anatolyovich, report your bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the performance, because they won't let you speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Pauline Edward.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u218	Chechtew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u219	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We knew for a long time that the opposition was not able to work constructively, to work for construction. It has all its power, all its potential, to take action to destroy the State, to destroy Ukrainian parliamentaryism, to make the work of Parliament a mess. But there is a constructive majority in Parliament that will still ensure normal legislative work. We believe that those bills that are being tabled today deserve close attention, and today we must take a decision when we consider them. Since, in fact, the decision on these bills is our response to the Energy Charter. We cannot go to Europe without recognizing the rules of the game in the energy field, as we expect to receive serious investments in modernizing our gas transport system. Therefore, we propose that, if the opposition does not wish to consider Mr. Carmazin's bill, we propose such a compromise, we propose to vote on the basis and, as a whole, the bill of government and to put it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u220	Please, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u221	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens, it is clear that today the discussion of the prospects of the gas transport system has been the object of speculation among all of them. But it is obvious that today’s gas system needs more attention than it has ever deserved. There are two reasons: the first political and the second economic. As for the political issue, such a passion between Ukraine and Russia, that if there was a pipe with nothing to hang, the issue would not be raised in Parliament at all. And the second question is economic. How do we make the gas transport system eventually turn into a successful business project in this country? And we, as representatives of the MPs of Reforms for the Future, insist, dear friends, that you stop this mess. Allow me to make a decision, but most people have given their word, that the Karmazin Bill will be supported***. What are you doing? But we insist that we be supported by three basic, four basic things. First, when we adopt the bill, we must ensure that the current principle does not allow any part or whole of the NAC of Naftogazu Ukraine to be privatised. Is that what you're asking? It will be. The second question. A bill aimed at reforming the NAC into three sectors has been adopted as required by Europe. Is that what you want? It will be. Third. Conduct the GTS assessment as required by Ukraine, Russia and Europe. It will be. And the fourth. Continue negotiations on the creation of a normal system of the triangular consortium: Ukraine – Europe – Russia. What do you want? We will vote, the parliamentary group supports Bill 9429-1, and please put to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u222	Attention, fellow officers! One minute, Sobolev, please. Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u223	The Faction "BUT" – "The Fatherland" takes a firm stand against the approval of any project. And I'll explain why. The government option provides for the direct privatization of the gas transport system through its restructuring and further sale of the restructured packages. Moreover, this project provides for the possibility of selling what is prohibited by the Pipeway Transport Act, where there is a clear prohibition. It's about our colleague Carmazin's project. There's a standard in this project that really only prohibits privatization. But please tell me, is there, is it not privatization if there's corporateism, stockpiling, single-packing? Undoubtedly, this is also a hidden privatization. That's why we asked our colleague to withdraw this bill from our consideration. I've come to realize that the government has understood and is trying to take this bill off the table as well. If it really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u224	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u225	Indeed, we do, we do not even consider anything today. That is why we firmly oppose the consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u226	Question completed. Yuri Anatolyevich, you have it. Yuri Anatolyovich! Wait, give it to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u227	Yuri Carmazin. When I read the bill by the government, I saw the dangers that fall under the Ukrainian National Security Fundamentals Act and refer to threats that threaten Ukraine's national interests and national security in the economic sphere. This contributed to the drafting of an alternative bill. The alternative bill, which I have proposed, provides for the possibility of implementing agreements that are concluded with the European Union, but a barrier has been put in place — the dissolution of privatization of what will be created on the basis of restructuring or restructuring. Moreover, I would like to point out that the government has also foreseen changes, except for the Pipeway Transport Act in Article 7, which also provides for an amendment to article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Management of State Property Objects, where it has foreseen such a multi-track that it is not possible to privatise, except in cases established by law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if two government officials, deputy ministers of some kind or other factor, make a treaty with each other and this agreement as an interstate will be made in the Supreme Council Hall for ratification, then it will be fully implemented. the gas transport system, as written in that agreement. As a result, my bill does not provide for changes to this Law on the Administration of State Property. As a result, I proposed and felt that the best situation that allowed for transparency was the best.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u228	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u229	This is the situation provided for by this law. But if there is no understanding that this law should be adopted either in two readings or there is mistrust in the hall, then there is likely mistrust. I see that not everyone today is ready to accept it in two readings. In one reading, we don't know what they're going to make, what changes to this bill. As a result, honourable national MPs, I would ask you to make a judgmental decision, and it would be a judgmental decision if the factions now gave a recess, as they demand, as required by the Law of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u230	Thank you. Question completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m0.u231	I'm voting on the proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] "Our Ukraine," who's gonna be from "Our Ukraine"? Wait, no one's authorized Paris yet. Who's it gonna be? No one will speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on the proposal to accept as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let the faction speak. The factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm putting a motion to the vote because the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing to take it down. Not to consider my bill, I'm voting Bill 9429-1 of Carmazin. Please vote. [[14:15:58]] For 237 The factions, please. 188 – Party of Regions, BUIT did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 2, the Communists – did not vote, the People's Party – 18, "Reforms". - 19, non-fractional - 10. There's a break until 4:00.
