ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:48]] Cards were registered in the 411 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Honourable National Deputies, the Ukrainian Prime Minister and members of the Cabinet of Ministers are taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Bolura Antonina Volodymyrna. Please welcome your colleague and wish you good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 12 April 2012. 17 issues of the agenda have been considered: six laws and 14 regulations have been passed, one bill adopted on the basis of 12 bills and two draft regulations have been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 p.m. Honorary colleagues, representatives of the deputy factions and groups made proposals to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the situation in Ukraine's penitentiary system during the "hour of questioning". Deputies: The Party of the Regions, "The House of July Timoshenko – "The Father of Ukraine", the Communist Party of Ukraine, the People's Party of Ukraine, based on part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions they are proposing to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide comprehensive answers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the order of the hour of questions to the government. For questions to the government from deputy factions and groups, writing will be answered by Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, 30 minutes. The rest of the time should be spent asking questions directly to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Is there no objection? None. I'm inviting you to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, this is how the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to answer the head of the penitentiary system, and when necessary, you can ask the Minister of Justice and directly to all members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u2	Letters, letters, and then, yes. So please, I invite the head of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, Lisickov Alexander Volodymyrovich, please. I would ask you in turn for written questions from factions to answer briefly, and then, if there are questions from the national MPs directly. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u3	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First, let me briefly describe the criminal execution system of Ukraine. At present, there are 141 CSIs, 33 investigators, eight correctional colonies, and 703 CSIs. The total number of convicts and prisoners is about 300,000, of whom 153 thousand 800 are held in detention centres and detention facilities, 145 thousand 200 are in criminal custody. At the present time, almost 1 in 7 convicts are being punished for deliberate murder, 1 in 4 for robbery, robbery, or extortion. Almost 1 in 8 is for deliberately causing serious bodily harm. Some 80 percent of those serving sentences are sentenced to serious or particularly serious crimes. One thousand and seven hundred and sixty - six are serving the sentence of eternal imprisonment. About half the convicts are punished twice and more, indicating their persistent criminogenic motivation. The State Penitentiary Service is produced by 128 industrial and 11 agricultural enterprises, which employ almost 40,000 people. There are agricultural enterprises with land plots, almost 50,000 hectares of farmland, of which 75 hectares are agriculture. By the end of 2011, nearly 31,000 livestock heads, some 23,000 birds, had been kept in agricultural production. The activities of the Ukrainian State Pension Service provide nearly 46,500 employees with a total of 52,500 posts. The analysis shows a number of systemic problems, most of which have been inherited since the Soviet Union, in the activities of the organs, the institutions responsible for the execution of sentences, and the investigators. I would like to focus, first of all, on the problems of the system’s activities and the measures that are used to solve them. The first is the complex situation of the placement of persons taken into custody and convicted in detention centres. Of the 32 investigative isolates that function today, 14 built over 200 years old, the lion's investigators will be 400 years later, 26 are located in the city's central areas, and it makes it more difficult to implement measures to improve maintenance conditions. The second is the shortage of living space in institutions to enforce the requirements of the Ukrainian Act of 21 January 2010 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code on the protection of the rights of convicted persons in institutions for the execution of sentences, according to which, as of 1 January 2012, an increase of up to 4 square metres of housing per convicted person is envisaged, and it has been established that they should normally be kept in units of block type. Third. Not enough places to hold people sentenced to eternal imprisonment. Four. Inadequate effectiveness of the system of health care for convicts and prisoners, moral and physical equipment. Fifth. Inadequate provision of facilities for the execution of penalties by special techniques and engineering and technical means of protecting and controlling and detecting prohibited items. Six. The complex state of production of enterprises, the enforcement of sentences, the moral and physical wear of equipment. Seven. The absence of corporate tax systems, penalties, and the total debt of past years amounted to nearly 140 million dollars. The critical state of engineering facilities as a result of their total physical wear, which, on the one hand, does not allow for proper maintenance and, on the other hand, results in in inefficient energy consumption and budget costs. Low levels of social protection and staff salaries, making the profession less prestigious and creating conditions for corruption risks. Practically all government programmes aimed at reforming the domestic and criminal execution systems have not achieved their goal because of the lack of an integrated approach and the integrity of the strategy, as well as the lack of funding and inefficient use of allocated public funds. In particular, the State Programme to Improve the Conditions of Preservation of Prisoners and Detainees, 2006-2010, approved by the Ukrainian Decree of 3 August 2006, was effectively broken down by a lack of funding, which at that time accounted for only 5 percent of the planned volume. Despite a gradual increase in the funding of the criminal enforcement system over the past few years, the State Pension Service has established expenditure under the general budget of the State budget of 2.6 billion dollars in 2012, providing only 35.4 per cent of the estimated need. At the same time, steps are being taken by the service manager to improve the situation, resulting from existing opportunities. In 2011 alone, $14.2 million has been funded for the construction, reconstruction and repair of criminal enforcement facilities, allowing the completion of the construction and operation of a new 180-seat facility for holding women in the Kyiv Detention Unit, which was started in 2006, and is maintained in 2009, to provide a maximum security sector of 152 places to keep those sentenced on certain dates, to carry out capital and ongoing repairs of 183 criminal execution facilities. [[Almost half of this facility's facilities are self-managed]] With the aim of deploying investigative detention facilities and solving the problem of the placement of prisoners in correctional colonies, 44 areas of investigative isolation have been organized, with a total of 1,282 locations. Also outside the insulators, arrests have been carried out in 36 correctional colonies and are designed to hold 1,067 prisoners in custody. During the year, 160 additional places were added to hold those sentenced to eternal imprisonment. All listed objects are built according to modern projects that meet the requirements of today’s international standards. Work is being done to re-profile the Irpine Correctional Center’s facilities to create an insulator for the Kyiv region. The number of prisoners in detention facilities has dropped by 3,000 141 or 9.4 percent over the current year. With the aim of improving the level of health care for convicted persons and persons in custody in the past year, for the first time in the last decade, from the state budget allocated to the purchase of medical equipment for about 80 million dollars, which has enabled the purchase of 830 units of modern equipment that allows at various stages to detect, diagnose and treat tuberculosis and other diseases. As part of the implementation of technical development for 2011-2015, 1778 units of modern security equipment have been introduced in penal and investigative detention facilities; the issue of the establishment of pre-trial investigation and judicial conduct in video-conference mode has been addressed. The project is already being implemented in five areas of the country. Enterprises and penal institutions last year produced products and provided industrial services worth 544 million dollars, 20 percent more than in 2010. The positive developments in their activities enabled a phased upgrade to the material and technical bases. As part of the implementation of the measures envisaged by the complex housing programme for military personnel and some others, during 2010-2011 a residential building of a total area of 8,000 square metres was introduced in the cities of Sambir Lviv district, the city of Isasław Hmelnitski district. Visitors for the Sverdlov Correctional Colony in the Lugansk region were put into service. In the near future, the keys to the new apartments will be supplied to 54 families of workers in a new residential home, whose construction was completed in Chernigów last year, with the support of the government. Compared to the previous year, 8.2 per cent of funding for staff maintenance has been increased, allowing the minimum level of financial security for contractors to not less than 1,450 dollars and younger officers not less than 2,100 dollars, which is 10 to 15 per cent more than last year. Last year, at the direction of the President of Ukraine, a criminal service institution was established with 358 students and listeners currently being trained. To further address the problem of the activities of the penitentiary system, together with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, a draft concept has been developed, according to which 3 billion dollars are planned to be involved during the 2012-2017 period. We are counting on what will soon be accepted, which has already been adopted, the Criminal Procedure Code, which expects a reduction of at least 15 percent in the number of prisoners in detention. In addition, in order to bring the conditions of detention into line with European standards, it is necessary to adopt legislative acts aimed at establishing systems of testing in Ukraine, to regulate the issue of the purchase of penalties by institutions and investigators of goods manufactured by their own enterprises; to address the issue of tax write-offs to enterprises and enforcement agencies, to establish a mechanism for the repayment of debts to the Pension Fund of Ukraine and to introduce a special taxation regime, to increase the financing by 1 billion grubbs in 2012 to address the urgent problems of the pension service, including to ensure that the activities of investigators comply with the requirements of effective legislation. This requires 290 million bracelets. In the absence of time, of course, I cannot inform you of all aspects of the work of the penitentiary service. I want to assure you that work on further improvement of the human rights mechanism in places of deprivation and implementation of European standards will continue. The ultimate goal is to build a modern criminal-executive system in Ukraine based on the principles of legality, humanism and respect for human rights. Thank you for your attention. Well, let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u4	Respectable colleagues, perhaps. We have heard the information, perhaps now let us write down immediately and ask questions. Please sign up for the questions. Basil Kiselov, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Vasil Alexiyovich, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich, I will have a question for Valeri Ivanovich Horoshkovsky. Dear Valery Ivanovich, in recent times, virtually no flights from Borispol to Simferopol have been carried out in a systematic manner, at least by Aeroswitt. Delays 1, 2, yesterday it's 3 o'clock, and no one's explaining anything. The reasons are different: no airport fees, no aircraft and so on. You can imagine what people, including foreigners, say about our power and our country. Article 100 provides for the liability of air carriers for such disruptions, but believe me, it is more expensive to contact them, and no one wants to contact them. So I suggest maybe we take a couple of foreign airlines to the country if they don't want Airworld. Let those who want and can carry out these flights. But we can't do Euros before.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u6	Please, Valery Ivanovich. Microphone, please, in the government's bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u7	It doesn't really need an answer right now. Thank you for asking. We will consider and decide on the possibility of launching foreign companies into our market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u8	National MP Sinchenko, faction of the People's Party, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u9	I'd like to give it to Zarubin Oleg Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u10	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u11	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I have a question for Anatoly Mikhailovich. Anatoly Mikhailovich, I've been raising questions about the methodology of tariff accounting, municipal services in particular, about millions of people. It's about the methodology of counting these utilities for maintenance of buildings. See, according to the old decree that was adopted, God knows when, such things as garbage disposal, depend on the apartment of the subway, not on the number of people living in the apartment. What does this have to do with anything? Who's gonna trash? Grandma, who lives in a two - room apartment, or the five men who live and dispose of more? And that's where the serious ones come in. One second. The cleaning of the driveways depends on the meter of the apartment, not on the number of people living there. And there are a lot of things like this in accounting for ridiculous things.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u12	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. It's not an old decision. This is the decree of that year, June 1, 2011. And there was a personalization decision, and for everyone, I'm sorry, it's such a determination, for every house separate city authority, a miscicone should do this calculation. And it's made all over the country. There are jobs that have to be done to keep the house, and this is, let's say, like the material that's given to the performers, and they've done these calculations, so this whole thing is. And the fact that there is no control or someone doesn't want to, or can't do it, is another thing, but the methodology is so designed and working.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u14	Mikhailo Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u15	From the faction "BUT – "Fatherland" the question will be asked by Pavlovský Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u16	Andrew Pavlovsky, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u17	Andrey Pavlovski, deputy member of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko Party of Fatherland. Lisick's question. Last week a documentary entitled "Lukyanjka – Prison Number One" took place on TV channels. The facts in the film are terrible. That's what everyone needs to see. People are tortured, bullied, detained in turn asleep, eaten, unable to sit, not enough seats. Those who have not been proved guilty are victims of this cruel, inhuman system of things. How do you let this happen in your office? When are the conditions for being held accountable by the U.S.S.A., the unproven guilt of what people will be improved? When they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u18	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u19	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. So, on this issue, official investigations have been carried out and are still under way. Official investigations are under way at the level of the administration of the State Prison Service in Kiev and Kiev. So the facts that were presented to society mean that the bulk of them are not confirmed. Here. Problems. They're not confirmed, I'm telling you again. So the check is ongoing. Among other things, the review is carried out by the Public Penitentiary Office and the central authority of the State Penitentiary Service. Here. I'll tell you what, we've taken out certain electronic carriers, here, by certain convicts. We transferred all these materials to the D.A.'s office, yes. And for today, we see that there have been and there are certain photographs of what are called. Therefore, let us wait for the findings of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in order of 97 they carry out the audit and a legal assessment will be given. What we're doing, I already told you. We have done so many things that have not been done in years or decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u20	Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Goodyak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u22	Eugene Good Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u23	Good boy, "BUT is the Fatherland." First of all, I'd like to tell the reporter that there are no convicts in the investigative cells, there are defendants. That's the first one. You don't know who you have. That's the first one. The other one. Please tell me why it was necessary to show the world and the journalists in the Kachanov colony when you showed the equipment for the treatment of Yulia Timoshenko. Please tell me, was this equipment not intended at all for the treatment of a neurological or neurosurgery patient? And why were these devices taken from Kharkiv hospitals, taken from people to show journalists and the world that you are so beautiful? Why would you do that, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u24	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. I have already reported that for the first time in decades, we have been provided with 80 million bracelets for which modern equipment has been purchased, which we have placed in our institutions. And here, indeed, we have something to show for it, and thank God. Because this diagnosis at the Kachanov Institution not only treats Julia Vladimirovna, but with this diagnosis we have 150 more women who are serving the sentence. They also need such equipment to be treated. And I'm asking you to understand that we, we have our own specialists, the ones where we don't have enough questions to consult, we go to the Ministry of Health. And thank you to the Ministry of Health, which provides us with highly professional professionals who are known throughout the world and who are being treated by the bulk of the population of our State. Therefore, my conclusion is: Whosoever desires to be healed is to be healed. Do you understand? Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u25	The Serbian is transferring the right to ask Stace a question, please, a microphone, the "BUT" faction. I'm just asking you not to yell. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u26	Well, I won't scream, obviously. And first of all, I want the head of the penitentiary service to apologize to the entire Ukrainian people for the lie he's telling. Because I feel like I was talking about how great things are. And it feels like we're watching some different programs, different TVs, different movies. Questions. Have you seen the film Usov? Or at least this may lead you to believe that you should apologize for the lie you just said. And the second. You've made a public statement that 90 percent of what's been shown is a lie. This automatically means that you have recognized that 10 percent is true, which means that you broke the law by 10 percent at least. Then what exactly is the truth, do you think? Similarly, what punishment can you personally bear for these 10 percent of the violations against human rights against those convicted and arrested at the Kyiv S.I.A., and not only in others??
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u27	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u28	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to reply as follows: an initial official investigation has already been carried out, as I said before. And by this, for every fact, I have personally reviewed and every fact has been made clear. Investigations have been carried out, surveys have been conducted, staff and so on. So, as far as our shortcomings are concerned, I've already reflected. The Kyiv Detention Facility, unfortunately, has been in detention for more than 150 years. There are catheterinian, centipede, birch, etc. Of course, this infrastructure has not been occupied by this infrastructure in recent decades. We've taken our first steps, I've brought them to you. Let's not solve this whole event yet, but we're already moving forward, we're making arrangements. And we have something to talk about. For the shortcomings you're talking about, I'm really saying that it's necessary to repair the cells, it's true. Communication means communication is water, heat, sanitation requires, naturally, major repairs as we are doing right now. But it's not decided one day, it's not decided one day. Therefore, once again, I bring about the completion of the audit by the central authority, the prosecutor's office and all the issues reflected in this film, and they will be brought to society. Yesterday, by the way, I held a press conference with many, more than 20, which means that representatives of the various media were present, and we discussed in detail, in particular, the Uss, by the way. I talked to him about it. And this conversation will continue with him. And.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u29	It's all yours. Antonina Boloura, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u30	Please give the floor to Bondarenko Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u31	Olena Fedorovna Bondarenko, please, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u32	Olena Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Mr. Lisickov, in accordance with article 24 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, national deputies have the right to exercise control without special permission to visit enforcement agencies. On March 16, the eight national deputies arrived at the Kachanov Correctional Colony number 54 for this very purpose. From 9 to 11 a.m., the MPs in vain tried to get them into the territory, standing under the gates. Without any explanation, the staff did not allow deputies. No one took the lead. Our appeal for a violent violation of the KPC and the People's Deputy Status Act has been answered by the acting head of the Kolpaszczkov colony, which says that the staff members have not been asked to allow them. Do you agree that the leadership of the colony.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u33	Finish your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u34	That not only did the colony's leadership violate legislation but it also led to a cynical lie? And do you believe that the guilty should be punished, and will they be punished?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u35	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. In this regard, we will carry out an additional official investigation. I know that this question has been dealt with very substantively, and we will naturally give an answer. I will only say one thing: that staff members are aware of the legislation and operate clearly within the existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u37	Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u38	By the faction of the Company of Ukraine the question will be asked by Beviz Valeri Anenjevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u39	Valerius Ananiyovich Beviz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u40	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a well-known politician who has now demanded to apologize to General Lisickov, so I want to tell you that, in large numbers, we should apologize to the parliamentarians first, because they gave only forty percent of the funding of the penitentiary system, that's the first. Second, the government should apologize because there is no government order and there is no connection between the enterprises that exist in this system today and the appropriate enterprises that work in our country at all. Apologize to the courts because today there are 34,000 people in the detention cells, half of whom have been sitting for a year to five, to whom we should apologize. And the question that I have to ask General Lisickov is, sorry for delaying, please tell me, is it true that today there are two and a half thousand members of organized criminal groups sitting in detention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u41	Allow me to complete the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u42	that are there from one year to five, and the courts do not decide on it. Is it true? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor. We are currently on 01.04. The investigators contained 35,000,238 persons, including 2,000,393 persons arrested for sentences held in detention centres for more than one year. There are these facts, and with the adoption of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, we assume that this situation will change dramatically. Our literally preliminary deductions, we thought that more than 15 per cent of us would reduce the number of defendants in detention facilities. But I think this percentage is going to be higher. That's why. A number of other measures are still being taken, indeed, in order, and we are actively engaged in this issue. But today, the new Code of Criminal Procedure clearly defines the timing of the investigation, the pretrial investigation and clearly defines the time frame for the custody of a suspect. Therefore, I think that the situation will soon improve and this issue will be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u44	Alexander Goodima, Faction BUT is Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u45	Please give Mr. Ukil's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u46	After the film Usova, the whole world and Ukraine saw the terrible conditions in which they were imprisoned in the Lukyaniv SEZO. I urge you, as Ukrainian national deputy, to resign in the best traditions of Europe after the examination, because this is an outrage, a horror and a violation of the law. And now it's the main thing. Please tell me, on what basis could there be an investigative isolation in the reformed Cachan colony? This is a direct violation of the law. And one more question. As a member of the Media Committee, freedom of speech I warn you that any attempt to break any case against Ussa based on the results of his film will be a direct recognition of all the facts he has set out in his film.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u47	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u48	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP! I want to give you the next answer. I've already reported to you that we have 44 units. It is said to be an coercive measure. Why? Because, in fact, the lack of detention facilities, 44 such areas, has been created by our institutions, which have more than 2.5,000 persons under investigation. With Usov, I already said that we are having, on the contrary, dialogue. And I think that this dialogue will continue, and in general with all the journalists, we have a dialogue with the media, and we have contact and communication. Because that's what we need. As far as resignation is concerned. We all walk under God, as it is said, and my position here depends on how much the Lord will measure to me, well, of course, the President. God! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u49	Rybeka, please, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u50	May I have the floor to Prokopchuk Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u51	Yuri Prokopchuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u52	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland. Mr. Lisickov, in the absence of a fair independent court in Ukraine, and after yesterday's treacherous, on Friday, Friday, Friday, at 4 o'clock in the morning, without declaring war on the Ukrainian people, you have to expect not more than 36,000 persons in isolation, but at least 70, or maybe 200,000. Because everything is open there to destroy the Ukrainian people and all the people. And people have lived there for years, they've seen it all. The Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that a person is found innocent of committing crimes until the guilt is proved and established by an indictment. For today, 8 bracelets are allocated for each person to feed them. There's a business going on in prisons, and you're showing it on the basis of the Cachan colony.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u53	Please finish your question. Do you have everyone? Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor. Once again, we are not trying to demonstrate, we are honest and open to all, and we are really showing what is the situation in our institutions. Yes, there are problems, they are not only in the Lukyanovo Sizo, there are also in the Donetsk Sizo, and in the Simferopol Sizo, and in the Odessa Sizo, there are problems. But they're gradually, and I'll tell you, very actively solving these problems, and that's where we see our problem. As far as the Code of Criminal Procedure is concerned, I just want to express my gratitude to our people's electorates for their work, so tense. And we hope that this code will indeed respect human rights and serve the truly humane, determined goals and goals that our people have set before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u55	Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u56	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I have a question for the Minister of Regional Construction. I apologize, Mr. Lukyanov, to the minister of regional construction and the minister of the interior. What is happening in Kiev today is, in fact, no other name than the destruction of the historic capital. Thank you very much. The fact that today an honorary citizen of Dnipropetrovska is destroying Sofia Kyivsky, another "Donetsk" is destroying the Andrijavski Vistula, how could it be? You know that all the lands that are in Kiev, according to the Earth Code, are land that belongs only to the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I demand that many Chinese stop all this insolent construction. This is the first time. I address you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let's set up a commission in Kiev, this project is registered, after the decisions taken by this insolent Kyivrad have been overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. Let's say that when we say "a," we have to say "b" and "c" and the entire alphabet to the end. We've met before, so. There are levels of power. And let's make a decision. How do we know that someone once took the land there, and now they're trading it or doing something, let's make a decision, and you know how it is to make a decision. And the ground-- it's got who now? Open Commodore Truth and you'll see where, where, what. We already have property, so we must conduct ourselves according to the law. So there's a question, but that's not how they're considered as you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u58	As for the creation of the TSC, I think we need to support this proposal -- and create a commission, let it study this problem thoroughly. That's what Anatoly Mikhailovich was talking about. Let's make a decision. Please, Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u59	Dear Mr. Lisickov, I'll start with a good one. I thank you for transferring my assistant, who was never convicted of murder, 14 years ago, from one colony to another where his relatives live. Thank you. But he complains that they're being treated there -- only painkillers give, so there's no normal response to treatment. We read from the press that the Volodymyr Timoshenko still gives painkillers. Lucenks give only painkillers. When will they be treated? By the way, Mr. Renat Kuzmin, Deputy Attorney General, boasted that there are as many as 150 women in the Kachanov colony who suffer from back disease, that is, well, this is a serious problem. Perhaps one day you arrange not only for the ailing but also for the treatment of these sick, poor people. Explain this, please, what you are planning.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u60	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I personally invite you: let us take a trip with you and see how they are treated, and then we will report to the national MPs and to our society. I can assure you that you have little misinformation. As for 150 women, they are indeed indignant, these are the women who are in Kachanovsk in particular. Indeed, they resent that one person’s privileges are created and treated, but not as they might wish. That is why we will take this into account. But believe that, to date, the issue of security, health care, treatment is under daily supervision, monitoring every day and taking all necessary measures to really where we can provide assistance, we provide it, and we are very actively assisted by the Ministry of Health. Spasbo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u61	Vassutin's handing over the right to question Michael Chechtev. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u62	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, thank you very much for your objective, comprehensive, professional information and professional responses. I want to apologize for the emotional perversions of individual deputies, but the nearness of an election to cloud someone's brain. That's how the MPs raise their ratings, not work for the electorate, but that's such a tactless question. Don't pay any attention. And now, in fact, yes. Today, there are many problems with social adaptation of people who are freed from places of deprivation. They usually have no housing or employment. As a result, freed persons cannot find their place in society and have to return to criminal activity. What measures are being taken to socialize those released from places of deprivation of liberty and to prevent the recurrence of crime? I understand that this is a matter of the state, and that Parliament must also be a factor and the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, as it turns out, from your position, that's the solution to the problem? Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u63	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. In 2011, over 40,000 242 persons were released from prison. What work has been done. Well, first of all, with local self-government. We sent 39,000,563 people, which means we're in a place of residence. Naturally, our criminal-executive inspection has already been included in the work. Direct meetings are held with the heads of the bodies concerned and the issue of labour adaptation is being addressed. But we start this work not only when a person leaves the institution but when he arrives. This is the most important issue, the question of re-socialization. I mean, more than 70 percent of us don't have a job, they don't know how to work, they don't know how to do it. Fifty per cent, even fifty-seven per cent, have no education, no secondary education. So I want to prove to you that there are more than 70 schools in our institutions, we have vocational training, we teach 80 professions. That's what we need production to do. When a person learns, has shown himself at work, has mastered a profession, of course, it is easier for him to adapt or, as we say, this process of resocialization is more active. Unfortunately, we have a lot of patients, here. So far, we've got about 4,800 tubulars. And by now, about 6,000 people are living with HIV. Well, there are other diseases. We're very supportive here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u64	Microphone, please. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u65	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u66	Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u67	Please pass the word to your colleague Stec. Stec, Stec!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u68	Steak, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u69	Mr. Head of the Penitentiary Service, you must have misunderstood me, I repeat my question. I'm here. I have this feeling, once again, that you don't understand what's going on in the country and in the service you're in charge of. First of all, I'd like to ask you. You say you're going to fix the situation. Well, please explain now, how are you going to fix the situation with Lucenko, Timoshenko, regarding the health they lost in the institutions you trust? And explain, please, how are you going to fix the situation, you've mentioned the Lord God here, well, how are you going to fix the situation with those dead people in S.I.A. and in jail? Maybe you're going to resurrect them? And the last. There's a colleague on the right, yes, on the out-of-control party, talking about not paying attention. In fact, do not pay attention to Ukrainian journalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u70	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u71	Don't pay any attention to anyone who is now addressing you, the Ukrainian Parliament, the government, the President. Perhaps you and your fellow convicts have changed places.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u72	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u73	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. I would like to answer the following, that I understand the national language and I would like to say the following, what is really happening here, I have already provided figures that are being done according to order. Our contacts are very close. We have a public council with 25 independent experts. We have scientific advice, which is a community that has more than 30 scientists. We meet with the media on a monthly basis. And there was this meeting yesterday, literally 25 to 26 numbers, we're going to hold another press conference, and I'm inviting you to attend. So we have contact. And there are no accidents on our part. The problems, I told you, have accumulated in us, they have not really accumulated for a year or a decade. Therefore, the main points have been raised. The main point is a concept that provides for the development and improvement of our service. And believe me, we will make every effort to ensure that these activities are resolved. As far as Lucenka, Timoshenko, other convicts or defendants are concerned, believe that our task is, and we see this task, is to provide all medical assistance. And we have nothing to hide and nothing to fear, and we are doing this. Another matter, they take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u74	Thank you. Valerius Kamchatny, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u75	Valerius Kamchatny, Kharkishkin. I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Health Minister of Richter Raisa Vasilovna. In particular, I would like to take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of Kharkiv's young moms, for discovering a beautiful and modern perinatal center in the structure of our Kharkiv district hospital -- this is really a European institution. And the question is how to prepare for Euro-1012. Our city, as we know, refers to one of the four cities that will receive the Euro and is very interested in the question, how will medical care be organized for foreigners who come to the championship, especially those who have medical insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u76	Please, Raisa Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u77	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MPs. In line with the government’s mandate, the Ministry of Health issued an order in Euro cities, developed routes for the delivery of patients in need of either diagnostic or clinical care; designated medical facilities for treatment and for diagnosis of such patients. All the doctors who will be involved in the provision of medical care are doctors who have worked in these professions for many years. So all the possibilities have been created, both the organizational and technical plan and the medical, including the medical, to ensure that everyone who needs such assistance gets it in time. In addition, there is increased attention to the sanitary-epidemic measures that will take place during the Euro. You know that this summer will take place, and these facilities will also be strengthened along the tourist trails that will take place during the Euro celebration in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u78	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u79	Thank you. I have a question for the Head of Penitentiary Services. You know, after watching this reporter Usova's movie, I was personally blown up by this movie. I mean, my brain just melted after what I saw. You reported today that money was missing, as if there was not enough help from the state. And what I'm saying is that the question that was raised in particular in the review of the Lucian S.I.A. is the question of humanity, that is, the caring, normal attitude of one Christian to another, because it is impossible to live without it. I want to tell you that the conditions that these people hold, in my opinion, are created artificially and exclusively artificially, perhaps in order to deprive these people of their right to a decent life, even considering that these people have not yet received their final judgment. I would like to tell you that people who do not have sadistic tendencies and who live in peace with their conscience will not be able to do so by allowing such torture. And here's the question for you. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u80	Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Well, finish drafting the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u81	The next question. In what way do the penitentiary systems in general in this service carry out the psychological selection of the personnel working in this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u82	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I invite you, when you have time, so let's visit the detention facility together, go through, see, really look at the disruptions that are there, and the flaws that are there. And I think we'll sort things out faster together, that's the first. Secondly, I'll tell you, and I've already reported that unfortunately, this is literally 20 years of service, so we didn't have a university, a university, a university. And thanks to the mandate of the President of the Government this year, the Institute of State Executive Services was established at the Academy of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. This, of course, will enable us to train high-quality professionals. And I've already proven that over 360 guys are studying, the guys are studying, they're coming in voluntarily, there's been a competition. Of course, they believe in the profession and the work they dedicate their lives to. Our job is to help these young people, which is what we do. It's not a simple profession, it's a complicated profession, really, why I've drawn your attention to what is really necessary here, the support and the people's electorate, and thank you for listening to me, as I'm told. And I hope that this will indeed be a joint effort to improve the situation. Because, in fact, the conditions of detention of the defendants depend on what personnel will work there. And we understand that very well, and we're really aiming at raising a normal image, which is said to be an attractive image of our staff member who's going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u83	Cosub, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u84	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Drey Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u85	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, the problem of the pension system in Ukraine today, Ukraine has inherited from the Soviet Union the image of "the countries of the saddles," a huge number of people under arrest, and certainly it's very difficult and it's not that simple to overcome mentality, and you're picking up the footage, and solving your material problems. I think it's one of the conditions, and if there was no such talk, if there was real public control of the execution of punishments, legislation would provide for the possibility of such public control. If possible, say a few words that you do to make such control effective and complex and systematic. As a representative of an important State institution of success and good health, I wish you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor! I've already reported, and once again, I'm going to say that there's a public council at the State Penitentiary Service in the central apparatus. This is an independent body, a social body that has 25 representatives. At the same time, they are representatives with their views, with their works that support us, and at the same time allow them to follow their instructions. These meetings are held regularly. Monitoring boards have also been established in each regional administration, which have the right to visit our institutions. The powers of the monitoring boards are very great, and we hope for such cooperation. This work is progressing, and how is it measured? It is measured when there is more order in our institutions. I have already given you examples that, unfortunately, our contingents are not easy to work with. This is actually more than 70 per cent of those who committed serious crimes or committed crimes on several occasions. Of course, these people need to work with us, which is what we see the problem. As far as we're concerned, the problem is, you've already heard what a complication it is. To date, the complexity of our staff is more than 16 per cent. We see ways to address this issue. Let's say, when I took up the job, our employee got a salary of 850-900 bracelets, now it's almost half a thousand. Yeah, it's not much, but it's a step forward, it's at least a step back. At least we've got our own staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u89	Mikola Demenko. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u90	May I have the floor to Grigory Smithu?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u91	Gregory Smythew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u92	I have a question for Prime Minister Nikolai Azarov of Ukraine. Nikolai Janović, I have a question for the next order. Yesterday we adopted an important document, not for this year, with regard to the change to the budget of Ukraine. Money, which mainly addresses the social issues of our population. Accordingly, from the mouth of our opponents, the opposition that is in the hall has been repugnant to ours and to your address that this is a one-time supply of the Cabinet of Ministers before the electoral campaign. Please tell us, the whole country and our people, are these one-off issues and social issues that we raised yesterday the pay standards for many of the population, or is this a stable situation that will continue in the years to come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u93	Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! First of all, I would like to thank those people's deputies who supported the President's social initiatives yesterday and the amendments to the draft State Budget Act. This is the implementation of a system policy aimed at improving social standards. I heard it yesterday and watched the broadcast of the meeting of the Supreme Council. I am surprised at the lies and the lowliness of the people's deputies, who have spoken with absolutely false data under the State budget. This, I repeat, is a systematic increase in pensions and salaries that the Government will continue to implement. I stress that it will continue to implement, and this year we will continue to raise all social standards twice this year. Next year, we are also planning a quadruple, once a quarter, an increase in pensions and salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u95	Yeah, time's up. Alexander Volodymyrovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Two factions: the BUT-Paternity faction and the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, according to the Rules, require a recess and are ready to make a statement. Sergey Sass will make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Let me make a statement to the faction of "The Motherland of the Motherland of the Motherland of the Motherland of Yulia Timoshenko." The latest events, the events of the last days in the Ukrainian Parliament during the review of the Criminal Procedure Code, the laws amending the State Budget have struck a devastating blow on democracy, parliamentaryism and the statehood of Ukraine. The Ukrainian society has witnessed how during the last four days the session hall of the Supreme Council has become a theater of absurdity. During the consideration of the Criminal Procedure Code, about a thousand amendments were considered over three days. When the Bank’s team arrived, most in two hours in a hurry, in the middle of the night more than 50 deputies managed to consider some 2 and a half thousand amendments and unwittingly press the buttons of the new KPC. Thus, by blindly doing the will of one person, members of the majority turned the state's legislative body into technical service to the President's Administration. It is difficult to overestimate the weight of the Criminal Procedure Code for the life of the country. This is a document that determines the level of rights and freedoms of citizens. The adoption process itself, not to mention its contents, clearly demonstrated that Ukraine had become a police state with its acceptance. According to the new KPC, the authorities have actually been given the opportunity to appoint the culprit. All we have to do is express our compassion to hundreds of thousands of people who hope for a fair trial and an impartial investigation of their cases. From now on, your fate will depend on high officials, through corrupt prosecutors and judges. At the same time, KPC was accepted with gross violation of the Constitution and the Ukrainian Rules. Dear Ukrainian citizens, the last days in parliament have shown that dictatorship in Ukraine is a reality. The totalitarian regime, which is accompanied by reprisals of disagreeables, not just politicians, is rapidly paralyzing all spheres of social life. The Faction "BUT" - "Paternity" before the great Christian celebration calls on the authorities to stop. What you do can have terrible, unpredictable consequences for Ukraine, everyone in it, and primarily for power. With the coming celebration of all Orthodox Christians! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the exchange of petitions. Two factions: the faction of the Party of the Regions and the People's Party -- also require a recess and a statement. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u99	Respectable citizens and respected representatives of the media, respected colleagues! Late last night and late at night, when many of our colleagues in a warm bed were looking at the tenth or fifteenth dream, there was a serious, stressful and transparent work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code. All voted without exception. Even those who have duplicated each other and have been introduced to ensure that the Criminal Procedure Code never exists in Ukraine. This was done on purpose for four reasons. First reason. Because at one time, when all the important authorities were in power, the Criminal Procedure Code was not adopted, they refused to accept, they were unable to accept. Although in 1995 the key commitment of Ukraine to the Council of Europe at its introduction was the adoption of a new Criminal Procedure Code. For 17 years it took those people who were sitting here to adopt this codex. Another reason. The elemental political jealousy that someone could do what they didn't do. The third reason. The elemental and primitive jealousy of those who could organize and accept what others could not accept for 17 years. [[Applause]] The main thing is to understand that now it will be much more difficult to appeal to international structures that Ukraine is doing nothing to fulfil its obligations to the Council of Europe. Because the Code of Criminal Procedure, as it was adopted yesterday, meets all the standards of the Council of Europe, and you will see that once again, through your emissaries, you will appeal to Brussels, to Europe, that they were trying to say again that something is wrong in Ukraine. Jealousy, jealousy, and self - inadequacy. And this Criminal Procedure Code is a better order than the one that's now in existence who wanted to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, please! Dear colleagues, let's not go further than this. Yesterday. One minute, I'm completely out of line, I think, and we're all in some kind of conflict. Everyone. Please! I'm not set up, I'm stressing these conflicts again. And I'm saying once again that, dear colleagues, we've been looking for and finding compromises. I have to say that yesterday the opposition factions declared their position. They did not hold back from making the right decision. Let's refrain from these mutual accusations. Let's see how this Criminal Procedure Code works. If we do not return to him again and again, we will blame each other for disregarding some adjustments. Well, they accepted the document, well, I understand everyone's dissatisfied, because it's obviously complicated. So I'd like to ask you here, on the one hand, and on the other hand, don't create a problem. I'd like us to have the opportunity for dialogue and compromise. So on my part, I say this for the representatives of the BUT faction, our Ukraine, for the faction of the Party of the Regions, for the faction of the Communists, the People's Party, the Reforms for the Future group, the honourable colleagues, let's save the dialogue, come on, let's not fight, let's defend the positions, but let's not cross the line. Please, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u101	Well, please, calm down! We still need to talk to you and work! We're not enemies! Well, please, that's it! So I would ask you not to take this, and I'm especially saying this to Andrew Anatolyovich, don't take it that way. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! Everything, please, please, please! Microphone. Andrew Kozemykin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u102	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we heard you. Thank you very much for the comments, but we're not going to do as our colleagues do with the "stupid" scheme. So all that happened yesterday was all witnesses and what was happening there at night and breaking the Rules, and that's what history will remember. I want to say that there are a lot of colleagues here, the leaders of the faction of the Party of Regions, they say that someone has a pierre, someone else has an action. Now, this man's pierar has been in prison since 2004, when he showed up at Kuchma for the illegal privatization of factories and steamboats, this time. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, answer the question, please. At the Conciliation Council, we decided to consider the question of watching the session room under cameras with journalists of Prison No. 1, where we are shown as human beings. Torture, torture, everything about ours, the whole reality of our prison. Please answer, why isn't that today?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll give you an answer. It's going to be very short and it's going to be in two sections. First, no violation, no violation of the Rules during consideration. One minute, the Criminal Procedural Code was gone. I think people are more, with bigger ones. One minute, people with more experience working in the Supreme Council from the very beginning will say that they have not looked so scrupulously at every correction, every article, and every chapter. There was no such thing. The second question is about watching the video. Dear colleagues, on the Conciliation Council, when such a proposal was made, I said, "When the "hour of questions to the Government" is proposed, I will put it to the vote so that the Supreme Council will support it." Just a minute. Please. So that the Supreme Council can make the right decision. This makes a decision that is not acceptable to the Conciliation Council. Unfortunately, no one made any suggestions. The other one. I mean today, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u104	Today at the meeting. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen, please, Andrew Anatolyovich! The second, honourable colleagues, unfortunately too, I must say that two committees that have been entrusted with preparing appropriate proposals. Well, one minute!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u105	I made an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u106	I said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u107	I made you an offer, put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u108	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u109	You did it yourself, you provoked this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u110	What situation did I provoke? Well, what did he provoke? Which one? Andriy Anatolyovich, please, please! What should be put to the vote? What do you want? I'll do it. I'm voting on the video, please to the Supreme Council, please. Vote, please. Well, you said put 'em up. Well, get it, I'll put it. What are you yelling at?Oh, my God! Please prepare for the vote, I'll put it in. I don't know what kind of hysteria I'm talking about. Please! I'm voting a proposal to watch this video, please. [[11:18:36]] For 113 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, "BUT" is 78, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 30, communists, the People's Party, "Reforms for the Future" is 0. I refer to two committees again: the Committee on Law Enforcement and the Committee on Human Rights, the International Relations, I have asked you to prepare a draft regulation today, and I would like to ask then, including the faction leaders, to see what draft decision the Committee on Legal Protection proposed. And then you claim me. He left the subject. I ask this letter to the committee to be distributed to everyone so that they can see how they relate to the question. So it turns out that it doesn't need to be done -- it needs to be done. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come from the national deputies of Ukraine. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the President of Ukraine on the prevention of the degradation of the Ukrainian part of the Danube Delta and the affrontation of Ukrainian shipping vessels. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:20:15.]] For 261 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:20:36]] For 259. Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of shutting down a public education institution with Ukrainian language: boarding school No. 7 in the town of Sevastopol. [[Skutak, Grigorovich]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[11:21:10]] For-48 Request not supported. Eugene Goodyak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the pressure on the working group of the Malian News from the law enforcement authorities, the Malian District and City Council. [[Malin City, Žitomir Region]] Group of People's Deputies to the Vice-President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the removal of the head of the Supervisory Board of the National Reserve of "Sofia Kyivska" Peter Toločka and Director of the Department of Cultural Heritage and Cultural Values of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, Andrija Wingranowski, who are forcing the co-workers of the Reserve to remove all materials related to the President's decree on 1000 years of Sofia of Kiev from Sofia. [[Matvienko, Filenko, Steshenko]] I'd like to make a point here. I'm no longer Vice President of the National Academy of Sciences. We need to clean this up. All right. Alexander Kemenyash to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the provision of information on the allocation of funds foreseen under the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a standard of expenditure for a national deputy, but not used during the year. Vladimir Danilenko to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, the Supreme Council of Justice, regarding the improper treatment of parliamentary appeals and the failure to take steps to respond to the violation of the oath by the judge of the Suma District Court of Suma, Allo Sidorenko, in the judicial proceedings of a veteran of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, a retired colonel, the head of the civil union of veterans of the Somali region of Constantine Stankević. Anatolia Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the enforcement of court decisions on payments to the general public. Andrija School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for inclusion by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the airports Borispil, Livov and Zaporozhye in the list of companies that are subject to concession. Boris Tarasjuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deliberate destruction of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine of the social and professional adaptation system of military personnel who are released or subject to exemption from military service. Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of labour rights violations by education students in Kirovograd. Valerija Suškević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the integrity of the National Institute of Epidemiology and Infectious Diseases of the Name of the Grošev National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine and for the non-improvement of conditions for the treatment of the sick and the work of medical personnel. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Government's intention to illegally repay Russia from the State Budget 405 million dollars just to have reason to destroy Julia Timoshenko in an existing debt. To have reason to accuse Julia Timoshenko of the existing debt owed to the Russian Federation, which she seems to have caused. Valeria Behwaz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of effective and urgent measures of government regulation to preserve and restore the operation of a number of liquor companies in the Winnitz region. Victor Olijnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a special state expert commission to study the consequences of the development of the Chalk family "Hotislavské" on the ecological state of Volinski Polissy and to preserve the unique Lakes of Shaka National Park. [[Mallorite Region, Belarus]] Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the payment of debts to the Public Shareholders Association of Chernigiv Chmvolocno from the enumeration of funds to the Pension Fund of Ukraine for the payment of benefits to former employees. Valery Kelestin to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the underfunding of the 2012 budget expenditures of Kallus Ivano-Frankov. Victor Olijnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the social rights and freedoms of citizens evacuated as a result of the Chernobyl disaster in 1986. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State funding for the treatment of renal insufficiency patients at the Chernigian Hemodialysis Centre Fresenius. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Director General of the State Administration of Rail Transport of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District State Administration on the socio-economic situation in the working group of the Rhine Sea Trade Port, the use of appropriate response measures to prevent the reduction of the port state, timely payment of wages, the execution of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decision of 26 July 2006 and the state support for the well-known port of the State. Vladimir Stretovic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to preserve the authentic appearance of architectural monuments located in the center of historic Khrestetics. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for enhanced steps to ensure the proper level of child health and rest, with a view to ensuring the full right of the child to rest and leisure. Eugene Kzarow to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the State Inspectorate for Consumer Rights on the operation of the McDonalds fast-food restaurant network in Ukraine, the conduct of a comprehensive health and genetic testing of the nation of chemical pretenses, trans fats, genetically modified products in production, and compliance with sanitary standards. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to combat the spread of alcoholism, drug abuse and tobacco among children and young people. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the illegal withdrawal of Herson's cotton combination assets. Mr. Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the return of deposits and the payment of pensions to customers of the Bank of Ukraine in Dnipropetrovsk. Mikoli Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of targeted funds for the capital rehabilitation of the Palace of Culture of students at the Dnipropetrov National University of Olesia Potter. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine to build a new solid waste site in the city of Korstoschev of the Žitomir region. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to amend Ukraine's legislation in order to cancel the provision of services without competition in the market. The Royal Natalia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure that the interests of children with disabilities are taken into account during the construction of the housing and rehabilitation complex in Cherkasa. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of property rights of landowners, including the possibility of an unhindered change in the renter's rent and an adequate rent. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to recover hundreds of thousands of fraudulent investors of money stolen by credit institutions and banks. Natalia Kraljevska to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-closure and maintenance of the construction of the Parliamentary Central District Hospital in the Ternopil region. Oleg Laska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the bankruptcy of VAT "Harkov factory Tochmed device" - a domestic manufacturer of medical technology and medical devices. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of issues related to the training of foreign students in Ukraine. Alexander Steshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure of the executive authorities to comply with Ukraine's legislation in the exercise of rights for participants to obtain the elimination of the consequences of an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant for information on the actual doses of radiation. Alexander Crnvolunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the chronic underfunding of the urgent needs of the city of Kiev, which led to the collapse of the transportation system of the Left Bank of the City. Alexander Crnvolenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv District Public Administration for falsifying the decision of the Irpine City Council of the Irpin City Head. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the non-closure, the destruction of the Mirdoro Group of Agricultural Products No. 1 of the State Shareholder Company "The Bread of Ukraine", the preservation of production and the payment of paid wages to employees. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Lviv District Council, the head of the Lviv District Administration for the verification of the catastrophic state of the road between Borislav-Szenz Lviv Region, which threatens to block communication with the mountain villages of Drogbitsky and Turkovsk regions, in particular to the U.S. Eastern health centre, has a negative impact on the number of those who are in recovery and excludes the possibility of being placed in hotels in the tourist resorts of the Euro-2012, leading to the anti-sanitary state of the buildings in the street of Stéphane Bandera, the threat of collapse on the transversals and the solution of the immediate payment of the funds for repairs in the area of the province, including the transport of Boryslav region. Spiridona Kilinkarov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the "own house" programme in 2012. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Odessa District Council, the Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the lifting of the wrong decisions of the Odessa City Council, which are in grave conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and aimed at the illegal reduction of the network of public and municipal health institutions in Odessa, namely, the closure of the Municipal Clinic No. 7, two anti-tuberculosis dispensers and 7 urban dental clinics, which severely violates the right of citizens to receive adequate medical care, and the criminal responsibility of officials of the Odessa City Council for the adoption of the said decisions. Sergia Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine to complete the gasification of the villages of Maryanivka, Luxury, Rubany Bridge of the region of Cherkas region. Vadim Kolesnicka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on ensuring compliance with Ukrainian legislation in the field of culture and sport since 4 June 2010. [[concerning the non-destruction of the stadium in Sevastopol]] Petra Cibenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, on the conformity of the positions of officials of the Ukrainian State Property Fund and the management of the Public Stock Exchange Association, which is located in the administration of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. Jurya Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the delay in funding for the budget programme "State Credit Credit for Individual Rural Indigents". Jurya Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the road in the area of Butac-Jazlovac of the Butchik region of Ternopil. Jury Prokopchuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on threats to stability and negative trends in the financial, monetary and banking spheres, which are compounded by errors in the leadership of the National Bank of Ukraine in the implementation of monetary and regulatory policies in Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the discreditation of the Ukrainian Presidential Order by Peter Toloczko and the harassment of the Director-General and the National Reserve collective "Sofia Kyivska". [[Rock, Hare, Blacksmith]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, in connection with the threat of the destruction of the public education school of Taras Shevchenk No.109, located in Kiev on the street of Panas Mirny 24 through the construction, started by the company-regulatory company Dnipro-Plasa. [[Philenka, Grigorovitch and others. Total 7 deputies]] Vasila Petovka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the Zakarpatski oblovtodor subsidiary of the Public Shareholders Association of the State Shareholder Company "Ukrainian Roads". Valery Baranov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the facts of the unsatisfactory implementation of the State Objective Program "Sugar Diabetes" 2009-2013 in the Kharkiv region. Vasil Spak to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Hmelna District Council for Conflicting Events with Reduction of Bed and Staff at Black Island Railroad No.2. Vladimir Danilenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Somali City Council on increasing funding and providing new equipment: an electrocardiograph and x-ray utility of the Sumska City Clinic No.4 for the realization of the rights of residents of Suma in the field of health care. John Kirilenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, for the correction of deficiencies in the reform of medical services in the city of Vilnius Dnipropetrovsk. Igora Ribakova to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the application of the rules of interaction between internal affairs, health institutions and the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office in establishing the death of a person. Irina Herashchenko and Julia Kovalevsky to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Ministry of Health of Ukraine - providing information on the amount of money needed to treat oncological children in full. Mr. Mikoli Potapczuk and Mr. Vladimir Karpuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Volin District State Administration for the closure of the Samarovsky and Velimčany District Hospitals of the Ratni district of Volin Region. Valerija Baranov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the free provision of visually disabled persons living in the Zaporozhye region with eye braces. Katerina Vashuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the elimination of social injustice and on the settlement of the legislative and governmental problems of single farmers in regard to the inclusion in their working life in private households and the provision of a minimum employment pension. Sergei Pavlenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds for the establishment of a rehabilitation centre in the city of Radehov in the region of Lviv to provide permanent rehabilitation assistance to children and young people with limited opportunities. Alexander Steshenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on regulating the order and size of social benefits for disabled persons on the Chernobyl AES. Sergey Shevchuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the non-payment by the Pension Fund of sums owed according to court decisions. Vasila Amazing to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the review by the State Environmental Investment Agency of 11 projects of targeted environmental investments submitted by Johno-Franco by the State Administration for the implementation of energy conservation measures in the Kosovo budget area of Johno-Franco County. [[Green]] Vassila Cherniy to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine regarding the granting of the status of the literary and memorial museum of the poet Vladimir Zabashtansky, who operates in the village of Braille of the Jmerin district of Winnick. Vassila Zdovna to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for completing the book collections of the libraries of Kosovo, Verkhovina and Svetinov region of Ivano-Frankiv region. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Ukrainian Minister of Culture for the Inadmissibility of Passing State Certificates to the Right of Distribution and Showing TV series "Was Guardia" as one that ignites international hostility and distorts the content of Michael Bulgakov's same literary work, which he is screened as. John Stoyk to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine on the reason for Anatoly Melnik's release from office as Director General of the National Art Museum of Ukraine. Vassila Hari to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory work of the Ukrainian State Executive Service in the case of the Private Shareholder Society "Organization of Workers Supply". Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the conditions and order of reconfiguration and replanation of housing. Caterina Vaschuk to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the need to resolve the conflict between the Open Association of Volinoblanergo and the village of Pecichvost Gorokhiv district of Volinska district of Raisa Kačur, which was caused by the deployment of high-voltage power lines and self-building in the security zone of the power grid. Alexander Kemenyash to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for information on the quantity and quality of hybrid cars and cars used by alternative types of fuel registered in Ukraine. Greeneweck's Sergey to the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine in order to subordinate the State Enterprise to the Scientific Research Institute of Mobile Technology. Julius Kovalevski to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the violation of the citizen's right to retire for years. Viacheslava Koval and Alexandre Crnvolenko to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the urgent need for financial assistance by the Ukrainian Physical and Mathematical List of the National University of Kyiv, Taras Shevchenk, to improve the material base of the aircraft and to carry out construction and repair work. Edward Prutnik and Valerija Bondik to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the President-designate of Ukraine from the rights of the child, the Lviv District State Administration on the need for all-rounding assistance in the treatment of a severely ill child in Somalia Alfawika to ensure its inalienable natural and unbreakable right to health care and timely medical assistance for the budgetary programme "Treatment of Ukrainian Citizens abroad". Sergey Tereshuka to head the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine for the funding of the completion of the construction of the road to the village of Dibrovka in the region of Cherkas region. Andrija Parubia to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the criminal offence of the destruction of Ukrainian cultural heritage objects located on Andriev's Export in Kiev. Sergei Gordienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District State Administration for the Protection of the Rights of Landowners of Lubenski, Horolski and other areas of the Poltav region, who, as a result of a gross violation of the contractual terms of land rations by the Nafkom-Agro company, is not paid rent and leased by persons and authorities. Andrija Pinchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the verification of the formation, the drafting of statutes, and the further work of the joint owners of multi - apartment buildings. Boris Tarasyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of illegal construction work at Andriyów Export in the city of Kiev. Vassil Wooden to the Attorney General of Ukraine for drawing the head of the Ternopil State Administration, Valentin Hoptian, to the responsibility of the current Ukrainian legislation for obstructing the comprehensive, full and objective investigation of the road traffic accident, which took place on 31 December 2011 near the village of Vilhivka Čemerovecka district of Hmělnický district, because the Prosecutor's Office of the Vinnitsk district has been criminally disturbed in relation to another person, namely, the Head of the DAI UMS Administration of Ukraine in the Ternopil region, which the Hoptian will not be held responsible for the personal commission of this road accident. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on a repeat, objective investigation into the killings of many businessmen, journalist Igor Alexandrov and others, as well as national deputies Eugene Szczerbań at Donbassa, Eugene Kushnarov at Kharkish, Vadim Gethman, [[Apathy Bragina, Alexander Momon, Sergey Gutula]] Anatolia Bandura in Kiev in the 1990s and 2000s and the illegal possession of their property. Vladimir Maruschenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the obstacles to the legitimate activities of the All-U.S. Public Organisation of the All-U. Association of Retired Persons, the illegal capture of her premises, documents and property, as well as the improper response of law enforcement authorities to those issues. Vasil Krawczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Act on the Prohibition of Game Business in Ukraine. Gennady Zadirk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation of Ukrainian legislation by the leaders and employees of the Chief Justice Administration in the Mikolaiwi region in the matter of making changes to the name, legal address and composition of the governing bodies of the Mikolai District Organization of the Justice Party, which was renamed "United Lefts and Villages" in December 2011. Eugene Goodyak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of existing legislation in the Korstosev City Market, the failure to take action by law enforcement authorities and the involvement of those responsible. [[Korostišov city, Žitomir district]] Lesi Orobec to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the restoration of legality in the actions of officials of the Odessa District Administration, the Prosecutor's Office of the Odessa Region and the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, as well as on their responsibilities under the current legislation. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the investigation and, if the facts are confirmed, the discovery of a criminal case involving the destruction of several thousand Polish prisoners of war, as well as prisoners of other nationalities by the Communist authorities in 1939-1941 in the village of Kozelščina Poltavska oblast in the undergrounds of the Kozelščina Monastery in the development and testing of chemical and bacteriological weapons. Sergey Vlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the systematic refusal of admission of a member of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, the State Science and Technology Prize laureate for the development and implementation of new surgical technologies in cases of diseases and spinal injury, doctor of medical sciences, professor, head of the Department of Neurosurgery of the National Medical Academy of Postgraduate Education of the Name of Šupik Mikoli Polishchuk for the purpose of treatment of Yulia Timoshenko. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on gross violations of labour law by the management of the Open Shareholders Association of the Malin Research and Experimental Foundry and the legality of the actions of prosecutors in the Malin district of Žitomir. Leonidas Grač to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the theft of property of a Ukrainian national deputy by employees of the Republic's Committee of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Jury Crook to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures to protect the interests of a Ukrainian citizen. Paul Mobchan to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the biased trial of the court case by the Solomon District Court of Kiev and on the unjust verdict of George Filipchuk, a doctor of science, a professor of the Academy, an academy of pedagogical sciences, a former minister of environmental protection. Mikoli Shershun to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation of Ukrainian legislation in connection with the non-payment of salaries to employees of the Open Shareholders' Association of the Sarnasian Combine of Bread Products in the Plains region. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the review of the complaint of residents of the village of Vita-Postova Kyivo-Svetoshinsk region of the Kyiv region concerning the unlawful actions of officials of the executive authorities and the Vita Postal Council during the alienation of the land of state ownership, the purposeless use of budgetary resources, the overstatement of powers and abuses in the management of municipal property, forest and water objects, as well as the conduct of further checks on the activities of Sergio Ivanov at the head of the Vita Postal Council. Sergei Vlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the organisation of a gastroline tour by Western European countries of the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Renata Kuzmin, with the aim of distributing unreliable information to discredit the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, at the expense of the Party of Regions. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to respond by the procurator of the city of South Ukraine to a parliamentary appeal regarding the annulment of the illegal decision of the South Ukrainian City Council of the Mikolai region. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, on the requirement of halting illegal pressure and persecution by the tax authorities of the Bi And Eich Association, which duplicates and broadcasts in Ukrainian language foreign audiovisual works in Ukraine, which are for rent in Ukrainian cinemas, the immediate return of illegally removed computers and special equipment to duplicate films, the failure of film sales in Ukraine, and the involvement of those guilty of violating legislation in accountability. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the circumstances of the death of Ukrainian National Deputy Igor Golovchenk. [[Jarochuk, Pavlovenko, Gerasimchuk]] Oleg Nadoshi to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rights of a citizen of the Russian Federation Vladimir Bogdanov on a Mercedes car. Tarasa Steckova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the enforcement of Ukraine's laws by adopting a decree of 11 August 2010 from the Cabinet of Ministers No. 764 and an order from the State Shareholder Company of Ukraine dated 25 October 2010 No.136. Sergia Srapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on numerous violations of legislation during the trial and trial of the criminal case of the accused citizen, Andrija Kalitka. Jaroslav Kendzior to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the circumstances of the criminal case concerning Mikola Didenko, who, according to the facts of the trial, has clear signs of provocation and procurement. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of disbursing the budget on the basis of a fictitious act between the National Historical and Archaeological Reserve of the Stone Mogila and the Scientific Research Institute of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine. [[Korya, Blacksmith, Sasa]] Groups of National Deputies to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science, youth and sport of Ukraine, the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, the State Administration of Rail Transport of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration, the Regional Council of Kiev, the State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the address of the teacher of the Kyiv Gymnasium of Eastern languages No. 1 Denis Rossohi on the number of violations of labour legislation by the administration of this institution and the need to remove facts that have a negative impact on the educational and educational process; and on the objective consideration of the appeal of Mikola Tokar on the possibility of transferring him to the previous work of the leader of the passenger cars, in relation to the complex material situation. [[Plotnikova, Prutnika and others]] Andrija Pavlovski to the head of Kiev City Administration, prosecutor of Kiev City for the non-admission of illegal construction of building sites of buildings Nos. 16, 18, 20, 20th on the street of Mikola Usakow, Svetoshin district of Kiev, which are objects of collective ownership of their inhabitants, which could lead to a technological accident and destruction of the buildings. Andrea Pinchuk to head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the accident of the road at: ul. Irpine, houses 64, 66, 68, 70. Basil Cherney to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the extremely unsatisfactory state of roads in the area of the Sosnian Family and the Royal Academy of Sciences in Kiev. Vladimir Ariev to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the establishment of a metal fence on the Constitution Square near the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Alexander Chernomorov to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the need to establish a competent commission to assess objectively the professional activities of the chief physician of Kyiv’s city maternity home No. 1 Natalia Honcharuk. Alexander Shepelev to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for repair work in a building on Rogosovska Street, 1, which was affected by a gas explosion. Julius Kovalevsky to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration to increase funding for the city's Kiang Health Program in the direction of infertility treatment. Yuri Gnatkewicz to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the prospects of renaming capital toponymic objects called murderers, great sinners, and Orthodox temple destroyers. Vladimir Bondarenko to Kiev City Head, Kiev City Council for the Adaptation of Žuljana Airport, which is located in the municipal property of Kiev City, the name of the outstanding creator of rocket and space technology Sergio Pavlovich Královov, who was born, lived and studied for a long time in Ukraine. Paul Silent to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration for the illegal eviction of the city centre of the All-Ukrainian Education Society, Taras Shevchenk, in the city of Novomosk, Dnipropetrovsk. Igor Jereshka to the head of the Cherka District State Administration for the violation of the legal rights of residents of the Iraklieu territorial community of the Cherkobai district of Cherkas region in the issuance of state-owned land rights. Igor Jereshka to the Cherkas city head on the catastrophic condition of automobiles and sidewalks in Cherkasa. Thus, honourable colleagues, 171 parliamentary inquiries have been made, 1 of them being sent to the President of Ukraine. There is a call by a number of deputies for statements about the dissatisfaction of the parliamentary request. But, unfortunately, the time is running out, so we can't make a speech. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues. A vote is taken on the question of the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Igor Golovchenka. I'm putting to the vote a draft decree to take it as a ruling. [[Registration number 10334]] To suspend the term of office of Ukrainian national deputy Chief of State Igor Borisovich, elected in a multi-mandatory national constituency, the electoral bloc of the political parties "Block of Lithuania" in connection with death. Please vote. [[11:54:57]] For 317 I'll take the order. A bill is put to the vote. The decision to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Alexander Pecklesenka. [[Registration number 10334-1]] To suspend the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Paklesenko Alexandr Mikolayovich, selected in the multiparty multi-party national constituency of the Party of the Regions, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Please vote. [[11:55:47]] For 314 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, perhaps such a suggestion that we don't take a break and then start the "Virgin" half an hour earlier. Thank you. One more, my dear fellows. In view of the fact that we are supposed to have a Conciliation Council on April 23 and here a number of members of the Conciliation Board have said that these days we are going to have a memoranda of action, and that we are practically left with questions, and from this plenary week to not hold meetings of the Conciliation Council, in the working order, if there are immediate proposals from factions and committees, to submit them, the apparatus is processing them. Because people will be at this event. Is there any objection? Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization" is under consideration. This is about the election of Talishev Evgen Ivanovich, the national deputy of Ukraine from the multi-mandatory national constituency, the "Our Ukraine" bloc, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs. No warning? I put to the vote a draft decree for its adoption as a decree. [[Registration number 10253]] Please vote. [[11:57:57]] For 309 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, the following draft decision on the election of Shevchenk Andrija Vitaliyovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, exempting him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. I'm voting on this motion for a ruling. [[Registration number 10335]] Please vote. [[11:58:54]] For 313 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, we need to remove the disagreements in the text of the adopted Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on improving the use of defence land. [[Registration number 6644-d]] In accordance with article 131, the committee handled the relevant proposals, and the legal authorities worked on them, and this document was given to you. I am voting on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on improving the use of defence land. [[Registration number 6644-d]] Please vote. [[12:00:01]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have a problem here. We're not going to be able to sign this law. Well, I'm asking you to go back to the matter, or we need to rescind the law. I'm voting for a return to the subject, please vote. [[12:00:35]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Please, I'm going back to the committee and the General Legal Department. Please deal with this question. It is wise, it is wise, yes. Dear colleagues, we are under review. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we agreed it was 12:30. Okay. [[B in m in s a l in]] about pipeline transport. Well, dear fellows, let's do it this way. We agreed first. I'm going to put a motion on the vote not to take a break. Please vote to work without interruption, and 12.30 p.m. Please vote. [[12:01:47]] For 264 Decision taken. Communicator Nicholas Romanyuk, please. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u111	Turn it on, yeah? Dear colleagues, Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meeting on 10 April 2012, reviewed the draft Law amending the Law on Pipeline Transport in Ukraine. [[on the reform of the oil and gas complex]] [[Registration number 9429-1]] [[tabled by Karmazin, National Deputy of Ukraine]] The bill is designed to introduce legal mechanisms to reform the oil and gas sector and to adapt domestic legislation to European Union legislation. The text adopted in the first reading was based on 14 proposals from four Ukrainian national deputies: Karmazin, Romanyuk, Matchuk, Yavorowski, of which 3 are counted, 2 are partially counted, and one is rejected, and 8 are rejected. Since road pipeline transport is of important national importance and is a national property of Ukraine, according to a comparative table prepared for the second reading of state-owned enterprises carrying out transport activities by pipelines and storage in underground gas shelters, as well as enterprises, institutions and organizations formed by their restructuring, the following restrictions are imposed: reorganization, merger, integration, division, transformation, conversion only by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, privatization is prohibited. The exclusion of core funds, shares and particles in statutory capital, the transfer from balance to concession, lease, lysing, mortgage, management, to the statutory fund of other legal, other rights that may result in the alienation of core funds, shares, stakes in statutory capital is prohibited, except where the result of such actions is: the transfer of core funds, acts and parts in statutory capital of such enterprises exclusively to a state enterprise or to an equity company, 100 per cent of which is held in state ownership. In addition, the privatization of all the above-mentioned enterprises and the alienation of their core funds, used in the process of implementing the activities of the pipeline transport and storage in underground gas shelters, is carried out only after the restructuring. The adoption of the bill will facilitate the restructuring of state-owned enterprises that carry out the transport of the pipeline and the storage in underground gas depots, and will put in place restrictions on the privatization of these enterprises and the alienation of their core funds used in the conduct of the main activity. As a result of the discussion and discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill, registration number 9429-1, in the second reading and in general. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u112	Thank you. Let's get some repairs. 1 amendment. Yavorowski, do you insist? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u113	Dear voters, I address you first. Of course, before this second reading of this law, there is no danger. But we have the power to protect ourselves by any means. If the government is willing to borrow $405 million from Russia today just to hang them from Julia Timoshenko, which seems to be. As if the state had guaranteed, today it is impossible to assign a bill to the government that contains "Achilles Five", I think. We have everything taken away from us in the Ukrainian people today. There was a pipe with our unique shelters and a culture that remained to be acquired. As a result, my amendment is to remove this bill from the second reading and not risk it. And please put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u114	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, based on your words, you might say: the pipe of culture. I'm putting one amendment to the vote, please. [[12:06:44]] For -6 Not supported. 2 revisions included in part. Romanyuk, 3rd. Counted. Yavorowski, 4th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u115	I propose that if you have not already rejected this bill and I, judging by everything, you vote for it, I simply propose that it be at least a little bit more understandable and safe for us, and for future generations, therefore I propose that part of article 7 of the Pipeway Transport Act leave it in its proper form. I want to remind you that a few years ago, in fact, Yulia Timoshenko passed a unique law that prohibited any concession or lease, especially the gas pipeline, because I did. Put to the vote to leave the article 7, its fourth part as a valid text.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u116	I'm putting the 4th amendment, my fellow Yavorowski, to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:08:00]] For two. Not supported. 5 revisions. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u117	I insist again, and I want to explain to the voters. My fellow national deputies are standing by the rostrum to block the rostrum and not allow this bill to be passed. That's why we don't actually vote on what I'm explaining. I propose a part five, six, and the seventh section of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law is deleted. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u118	I'm putting the 5th Amendment, Yavorowski, on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:08:46]] For the Not supported. Yeah, 6th Amendment, Carmazine. Don't insist. 7th count. Mathuk, 9th Amendment. Edited. Are you insisting? Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u119	Adam Ivanovich, correction counted. I mean, it's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u120	It's considered editorially. Do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u121	No, no, it's fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u122	Yes, please, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this amendment seems to have involved some kind of technical error. What is it? This amendment provides for the exclusion of the shares of the major funds, the shares of both public enterprises and institutions and organizations, only public enterprises. And that's right. But we forget that, in this case, both the share and the core funds of institutions and organizations are still being alienated. They can only be transferred to budgetary organizations and in no way to private organizations. So I'm going to add words after words, and now I'm going to say, "the transfer of core stock and particle funds to statutory capital of such enterprises" -- "except add, to the budget institution, to the state enterprise." And it's still in the text. I'll get that text.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for 9 amendments, which is readjusted to add: "the transfer of core funds, shares and particles in the statutory capital of such enterprises exclusively to a budgetary institution, to a state-owned enterprise or to a shareholding company, 100 per cent of which is owned by the state-owned Ukraine." Please vote for this clarification. [[12:10:48]] For 240 Supported. Please, 12th, Matchuk. Matchuk's microphone, 12th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u125	Thank you. I insist on adopting the 12 amendments because I do not agree with my colleague Yavorowski that this bill seems to contain no risks. Risks are and are related to privatization options that are formulated in such a way that the action of part six of this article does not extend to the exclusion of state-owned core funds. There is still a very confusing text. This is a text that can then be treated as at least in two different ways. So I proposed an amendment that says the same thing, but it's as clear as possible, as simple as possible, and in addition to everything else, it ends with the words, "not by consent," but "by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers." That's what the reporter was talking about. But there's still an old word for "agreed." I insist that it is necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers to decide to privatize such assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u126	Well, it's better for the Supreme Council, not even the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm putting 12 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:12:22]] For-7. Thank you. Seven. Dear colleagues, all the adjustments are taken into account. I'm voting on Bill 9429-1 on pipeline transport as a law. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:12:52]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u127	I suggest, given that we worked very hard yesterday, let's move on to the Vulnerable. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to prepare for the recording, for the recording on "Rizzna." No objections? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, prepare! I'm waiting for you to prepare, please. Please take up your jobs. I'm waiting. Yeah, are you ready or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] You'll hear me. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the recording. Here comes the recording. Yes, please, you can see it on the board. Please, Bully, the reform group. Prepare the Davimuks. Chaplain's handing over Bully. Please, Chaplain. Dámukuk is next. Yes, we have exactly an hour, that is, until 13:15.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, the MP's "For the Future Reforms" group is calling attention to the beginning of a new turn of the hysteria around the language issue. This is evidenced by the renewal of applications for the urgent need to adopt a bill that envisions an increase in status, particularly in Russian. So once again, we're talking about the actual introduction of Russian as the second state. In this statement of linguistic neutrality and the willingness of the MP's Reform for the future to support a similar bill, which some national MPs have allowed themselves to do, in our view, provocative attempts are being made to get us into a pre-foreseeable language issue or ground conflict. In view of the noted MP's Reform Group for the Future, it is necessary to make clear its position on the language issue. To our conviction, there are no grounds for considering the Constitution of Ukraine, as defined in article 10 of the Constitution, as the only non-EU country. We are reminded that the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 14 December 1999 clearly states that the status of Ukrainian as the only national language fully corresponds to the governmental role of the Ukrainian nation, which historically resides in Ukraine, is the absolute majority and population, and has given the official name of the State. In this regard, we also warn against speculation on the issue of the Russian-speaking population, because, first of all, not all ethnic Russians consider our fellow citizens politically correct and appropriate to grant Russian the status of state status. An example may be the position of the scholar Mikola Amosov, a man and a citizen with a capital letter, who has repeatedly stressed that, as a member of the imperial values, he advocates the granting of state status to the Russian language. Secondly, it does not match the reality of the claim that all Russian-speaking Ukrainians regard Russian as their native language and seek to increase its status. According to official data from the 2001 U.S. census, 67 and a half percent of the population in Ukraine considered their native language to be Ukrainian. The parliamentary group "For the Future" against changing the status of the Russian language and because this will lead to the division of Ukraine, we are confident of that, and even the head of the Ukrainian representation "Rosor" pointed to such a threat in December 2010. Constantine Vorobyov. And at the end of the talk, we want to draw the lines of the great poet Majakovsky from his poem "Dolg Ukraine." "I'm telling you, my friend Moscal, on Ukraine, you don't have to learn that language on the flags and lexicons of the Allies. This language is glorious and simple, you hear, the trumpets are played, the time of reckoning is now." Let's take these lines of the great poet, and then there will be no language problems in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u129	Yes, please, Davemuk gives the Undercover a word. Prepare Chetchev. Chechtev says, well, good, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u130	Dear voters, dear colleagues! In the near future, the entire country will witness when the great experience of the Party of the Regions in terms of raids earlier only enterprises, both private and public, will be distributed to the local government authorities. A raid on the South Ukrainian City Council is under way. In violation of all possible laws, in violation of the Constitution, the committee yesterday considered the ruling of the People’s Deputy of Maybeard and unfortunately supported the holding of the city’s next election. It's in violation of the Constitutional Court's ruling, it's in violation of the Local Self-Government Act, it's in violation of the Constitution itself. I believe that if Parliament supports this decision in the near future, it will also become a raider. He will include the experience of the Party of Regions in registering with local self-government authorities. So I call upon all my colleagues to vote against this ruling when this 10306 is passed to the Hall. We can't go against the Constitution, we can't go against the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u131	Yes, please, that means Chechetov and Glushchenko are being handed over to Popescu for six minutes. Gerasimczuk says. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u132	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The great electorate! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, this week, we have adopted a decision aimed at fulfilling all of our commitments made at the Council of Europe in 1995, as well as at the implementation of the recommendations of Resolution 1862 adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 26 January 2012: "Functioning a democratic institution in Ukraine." We have foreseen the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code, and today we have adopted it, one of our main obligations to the Council of Europe. Because after the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code, you can immediately complete the drafting, adoption and adoption of the law on lawyers. And within a year of the adoption of the CPC in accordance with the President's decree on a plan of action for the fulfilment of our obligations to the Council of Europe, there will also be a law on the prosecution. And when we adopt both these laws, this legal unit that we took on as a commitment in 1995 will be fulfilled. As soon as possible, a working inter-ministerial working group will be set up with the participation of the representatives of Minsk, the Henprocurement, the judiciary and others with the aim of analysing the experience of the members of the Council of Europe in matters of political and criminal responsibility, the application of legal rules, similar to those enshrined in the 364th and 365th articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, as well as the rules of criminal and electoral law, the judicial system, the activities of political parties, i.e. those set out in the resolution itself. And on the basis of this analysis, appropriate proposals will be made for amendments to Ukraine's legislative acts, which are based on European standards, Ukraine's national interests and the conclusions of the Venice Commission. This is a very important moment, because we recognize that there are still problems at the level of legislation that have been inherited from the previous authorities. And we must move forward, and we will do so in accordance with European standards and with our national interests. We also point out that, within the limits of its competence, the Council of Europe’s recommendations should be carefully analysed in preparation for the consideration of the relevant bills. Because sometimes a draft law is being prepared, and then it is already in line with European standards. So we insist that this is done in the drafting stage of the bill. The training committees should ensure the speedy development of those bills aimed at reforming criminal justice in line with the Council of Europe standards. And the authorities should speed up the implementation of the plan of action for the fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations and obligations arising out of its membership in the Council of Europe, approved by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine. And we are implementing a plan that the President has approved. Today, as I said before, we've already adopted KPC, and on its basis we're going to develop and adopt laws on lawyers and prosecutors. When we get a proper analysis of the legislation of the members of the Council of Europe on the subject that was reflected in resolution 1862, appropriate changes to national legislation will be made, and so we will approach the moment the monitoring procedure is completed and we will move on to post-monitoring dialogue with the Council of Europe. This will be a new quality phase of our dialogue with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Today, Ukrainian authorities are sending a positive signal to our European partners. We are gradually and planned to fulfill our obligations, and in turn we look forward to a positive response from European structures. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I welcome everyone with the coming Easter celebrations, I wish everyone health and God's blessing in all things, and on Sunday with the pure soul we say to each other: "Christ the Resurrection! The Truth of the Resurrection!" "Christ.".. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u133	Mikola Sherschun, please. Get ready, Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u134	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear listeners! More and more appeals are coming from the regions asking them to ensure that the legitimate rights of education and culture workers are realized. More and more, Ukrainians are raising questions about their social security. But let's face it, there's no progress in this situation, rather the other way around. Recently, at a meeting held in the city of Breznom, I was contacted by representatives of a circuit organization of the educational and scientific community in the Plains region. They stressed the urgent need to guarantee the social security of education workers provided for by valid legislation. And believe me, such demands are being heard all over Ukraine. First of all, students are asked to provide a decent reward for their hard work and exemplary performance in accordance with article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. In recent years, this reward has declined steadily. For example, in the Brezni district, teachers received up to 80 percent of their salary, and at best up to 50 percent. Secondly, the professional organization draws attention to the failure to comply with the laws on guarantees for teaching workers in rural areas free of charge with heating and lighting. Then, in the villages of the educators, they have to fight poverty and difficult living conditions alone. And these are the educated, these are the people who bring up the knowledge that raises our young adult generation -- the future of our nation. It is also important for the well-being of our education staff to ensure the implementation of paragraph 34 of the National Educational Doctrine, approved by Presidential Decree No. 347 of 17 April 2002 on the National Doctrine of Educational Development. This is the position that provides for the establishment of pensions for teachers at 80 percent of the wage. And educated people deserve it completely because they do the most important function in society: they form intellectual potential, a way of thinking and educating a young generation of the future, as I've already said, our state. Unordered legislation and its inaction now create social tensions among educational workers. Because people want to live, not live.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u135	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u136	So I urge the government to pay particular attention to the proposals I have made and to implement them. The Enlighteners look forward to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u137	Thank you. So it's Jojik's word. Get ready. Pavlovsky and Balura are being handed over to Jaborovski, and it will be six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u138	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Less than three months have passed since the appointment of Dmitry Solomon’s new defence minister, as the so - called draft concept of reform and development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, according to which the Ministry of Defence plans to reduce the number of military personnel to 70,000 by 2017. That's about 3 times less than we have right now. In fact, in Ukraine over the next five years, it is proposed that the remnants of its own Armed Forces be destroyed and that Ukraine be deprived of its protection. There are no suggestions on how the country will protect its territory without an army, without new technology. How could such a concept come about? Perhaps the answer is that only in 2005 did the new defence minister become a citizen of Ukraine and have family ties with the governments of neighboring Russia. This country is known to have demonstrated its ability to force peace by force of arms without any particular respect for international law or the sovereignty of States. Threats have often been heard on Ukraine’s side. We are very fond of talking about neutrality. So let me give you just a few facts that may not be known to those who favor neutrality. Switzerland is in a relatively peaceful Europe, but it supports one of the world’s most prosperous armies. This small country with democratic neighbours is able to mobilize one and a half million people. An even more outstanding example for Ukraine is Israel’s army. This country is in an aggressive environment, and it has to protect its borders constantly. Israel spends more than 6 percent of GDP on its defense. By the early 20th century, we had lost our independence. When they relied on good neighbors and gave up their army. Today, the risk of repeating such a scenario is very high. Neutral Ukraine, with seven tens of thousands of military forces and less than 1 percent of GDP, is doomed to become a playground for the military aggression of other nations. On the basis of the foregoing, the Ukrainian People's Party requires the President of Ukraine to consider the purpose of being a defence minister who deliberately destroys the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The other one. Consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u139	Thank you. Thank you. Yavorowski, six minutes, please. Get ready for Samilak. You bet your ass. Remember, too, that people are behind you. You've made your point. Others want to. There's not going to be one sentence, because you have 10 points. Well, finish up, just one sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u140	The other one. It is urgent to adopt the Law on Financing the Armed Forces of Ukraine at least 2 percent of GDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u141	Yavorowski 6 minutes. Getting ready is a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u142	Dear voters, you often ask me why I still don't read this unique document. I'm doing your will. I'll remind you. May 2005 A new government came, a new government that came from Midan. And the head, then head of the State Property Fund, who steamed everything he could steam, quickly ran to the Attorney General's Office to show off. The name of this person is already well known to Ukrainians – Mikhailo Chechetov. I have this unique document in my hands. It's a protocol for his interrogation. Here on every page is Mr. Chechchev's signature, so to speak, there's obviously no need for anyone here. This document explains how the privatisation was conducted under the leadership of Mr. Chechchev in 2004-2005. In particular, I'm choosing the place that's talking about privatization of the Chrysalis. Let me remind you that Mr. Chechetov sold Creebrisstal for 4 billion dollars. Who? You'll read it. Then, according to Julia Timoshenko, there was the second tender, the second auction, and it was 24 billion, 4 and 24. Now let's go over the sheets, like we did. The question to Mr. Chechtov, he answers. “After the announcement of the initiation of the privatization of the Krivoroz metal combination into the Statehood Fund, statements were made by 9 applicants wishing to participate in its privatisation. The claimants included the US company LMN US Steel, which was not allowed by the Commission to participate in the competition because it was not subject to conditions.” "Under conditions," of course, Michael Chechtchev, not legislation there and so forth. “In the end, only six applicants were selected. Of the 6 participants, there were two structures of Russian participants, four Ukrainian participants. After that, the President of Ukraine, Kuchma L.D., called me. and recommended to me that this competition should be won by a serious national investor, to whom the listed list includes the Industrial and Financial Consortium “Investment and Metallurgical Union”, a consortium of “Industrial Group”. I knew that these were the actual owners of these enterprises were Ahmatov, Pinchuk and Taruta. Taruta is a partner of Ahmtov. In response to President Kuchma's recommendations, there were additional conditions, on the recommendation of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, in which it was a key condition that the winner had to work on the Ukrainian coke market. Only two of the above-mentioned enterprises were subject to this condition: the Industrial and Financial Consortium “Investment and Metallurgical Union” and the “Industrial Group” consortium, which have also become participants in the competition for the privatization of the “Croat Metalworks Combined”. As a result, the Industrial and Financial Consortium "Investment and Metallurgical Union" was the winner of the competition, which offered 4 billion 260 million bracelets. Keep listening. “The available information is that Chechetov himself said that, according to available information, other foreign companies offered more money. For example, LMN US Steel, U.S.A., offered 93.2 per cent of the State-owned stake in Crimsonstock 7,95 billion griven. There were 4, and there was 7, 95 and they're refused. An additional 6.3 billion bracelets were added to the enterprise's investment programme, totalling 14.3 billion bracelets. Russian firms have offered more than one and a half billion." Question of the investigator: “During the transfer of authority to other employees of the Ukrainian Property Fund concerning the conclusion of contracts for the sale of privatization facilities, what rights did you grant them: only the signature of the contract of sale or the authority and responsibility to control the terms of the contract?" Answer: "In my assignments, I delegated only the right of signature and left control behind." So he was completely in control. Question: "Who is personally responsible for the rightfulness of privatizing an object that has been sold on your orders?" Answer: “Personal responsibility for the rightfulness of the sale or transfer of each facility which has been sold under my authority is vested in me as head of the State of Ukraine.” Question: "What normative documents did the fund privatize property in general or parts of property that were not subject to privatization?" Answer: “To date, there is no normative act allowing the privatization of property as a whole or part of the property that is not to be privatized. Privatization of property that is not subject to privatization was carried out during my manual on the scheme worked by my predecessors.” I'm done, but I want to tell the voters it's not over, it's going to be, and it's going to be even more interesting. He'll give Janukovich up, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u143	Katerina Samuelk. Getting ready, Scybinetsky will tell Goodyak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u144	Dear voters! During the last eight years, the work team of the Herson cotton band has been fighting for the right to work, earning their wages at the right time. The situation at HBK is catastrophic. Payables of 10 million, pension funds of 40 million dollars. For the last six years, people have been out of retirement, and they have not been allowed into the factory. The executive criminals took over the dormitories, handed them over to relatives, and people who had worked 40 years later were denied the right to privatize rooms that had four or more people living in. Smallpox are also kept for their family. The opinion of the professions is ignored completely. Of the four factories where 25,000 workers worked, one and 705 remained. My statement is a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the SBA, the Attorney General's Office. What I'm asking is, why are we selling factory equipment, modern machines? Why is it cut out for scrap metal? There's a mall at the third place. Here was the only factory that produced batistas, madapolams, floods, other tissues, the only factory in Ukraine. The leaders unpunished the entire social sphere: the Black Sea holiday house, the Orlatko children's health camp in Skadowsk, the Teaka profiler on the shore of Dnipra. Simple people and their children feel that there is no need for payment, treatment, and recovery. People came to see me for a walk, because they don't have money for a trolleybus, for food, for clothes, for utility. And I'm asking the power structures, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to answer these HBK workers, all the Hersons, why the former director of Ukraine is being brutally fat, why they sold everything, they bought it, they washed the money, why they turned people into a famous combination, and the whole Soviet Union was famous for its tissues, by the way, which began and released guns to Euro-2012. Why have they turned the collective into lawless beggars? Why are they closing the factory door? And one more question. Tell me, who really needs a beggar in Ukraine? This is not the only case in Hersonian. It's also "Beautiful" who was famous for his masculine costumes. So we'll never get up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u145	Thank you. Eugene Good. Prepare Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u146	Good boy, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Dear voters, the Malin district of the Malinsky News newspaper is one of the best in the state-communal editions, one of the best newspapers in Žitomirščina. For 20 years now, the newspaper has been led by the Deserved Journalist of Ukraine, the secretary of the Ministry of Journalists’ Association of Ukraine, Ivan Ivanovich Wozniak. His honest position as a journalist and objectivity in the information was not appreciated by one of the deputy heads of the Malin District State Administration, who organized a crusade against the labour community, began a banishment by the Malin District Attorney's Office, who sent her application claiming that the newspaper was not a legal person and required the re-registration of the papers of the newspaper "Malinsky News". This is because the newspaper was registered in April 1992 and has been paying hundreds of thousands of dollars on a regular basis for the last 20 years. Joined the raid and the Malin District Administration and the City Council, on 28 March 2012, the district council report was placed in the agenda of the day, and the Malin News Editor's report on economic and financial activity, although no copies of the district print budget and other expenditures were allocated. The city chief decided to become a cofounder of the newspaper in order to remove the working group. I appealed to the Attorney General with a parliamentary request and to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the protection of freedom of speech. President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine and Attorney General Viktor Pshonka promised to respond harshly to the pressure of journalists, and I hope that the words will not go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u147	Yes, please, Baranov-Mohort. After him is the Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u148	Respectable citizens, honourable chairman, respected colleagues! Today, the President of Ukraine, the Government, Parliament of the country is making an appropriate effort to improve the crane economy. An important aspect of this effort is the support of small and medium -sized businesses. A large part of the state’s entrepreneurs carry out their activities in temporary structures or small architectural forms. But their location and operation are associated with a number of existing problems: the complexity of the documentation, the dispute over the location of these buildings in certain places, and the conflict over the forced dismantling of temporary buildings. In addition, legislative and regulatory imbalances need to be added. For a time, these questions were offered as a ransom to local councils, and some local officials understood that as a ransom. Just mention the problems with the deployment of the MAFs in Kiev in 2005-2010, which KMDA Alexander Popova's team of today's head is still trying to solve. Last year, Parliament passed the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation, which provided for the unification of arbitrary procedures in this part. For the implementation of the law, MINREGIONBUD has already approved the arrangement for the placement of temporary buildings, but this order cannot be achieved because of one problem: the lack of land rights for the owners of the MAFs. Businesses simply cannot form the land because land leases that have not yet been approved are necessary for the transfer of land to the lease. As a result, every owner of a temporary building can be blamed at any time for the arbitrary occupation of the land. The legislative regulation of land relations is the prerogative of Parliament, so I urge you to return to small business problems and address these issues. There may be several options: either to supplement the Ukraine’s Land Code on the arrangements for the establishment of personal waiters for the deployment of MAFI, or to simplify the arrangements for placing land in a lease to accommodate such buildings by supplementing the Ukraine’s Land Code with a rule on the non-requirement of land auctions in this case. Or to determine that the placement of temporary buildings can take place without the land rights being established, while at the same time determining how to pay for the actual occupied land area. I have deliberately failed to submit an appropriate bill, I do not want to impose my position on you, and there is a corresponding committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Instead, I offer to help those in small businesses as quickly as possible by providing their own families with new jobs, creating a large proportion of budgets at all levels. Thank you for your attention. Finally, I welcome everyone with a coming festival and a desire for health and family warmth!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u149	Thank you. Julia Kovalevska. She'll be followed by Mutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! This week you and I have once witnessed a political circus in the performance of our opposition. This time, it is a dissatisfaction with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that have amended the electoral rules on the prohibition of parallel balloting and the abolition of the right for Ukrainians living abroad to elect majority deputies in the city of Kiev. In doing so, representatives of the opposition make initial, ridiculous statements regarding the withdrawal of their votes in favour of the Ukrainian People's Deputies Act. Strong statements of vote not only indicate the full legal illiteracy of our opposition colleagues, but also the attempt to get white in front of their constituents. After all, all Ukrainians have seen that the electoral law has given its vote to the vast majority of the people's deputies from the opposition parties themselves, voluntarily, without any coercion. The current actions of the opposition are like panic attacks, which clearly demonstrate their insecurities in their own strengths. It is quite obvious that they are simply trying to justify their failure in the upcoming elections in advance by unsuited electoral law, by allegedly misdistribution of districts and so on. You see, they chrome ratings, they don't trust you people, gentlemen of the opposition. One advantage in this situation is that the real purpose of voting the opposition for this law is now apparent. The rate was likely to be on the use of flaws in the law to break the elections. This indicates in particular the fact that, in preparing the new Electoral Law, it was our colleagues from other factions who insisted that the parallel voting rule should be included. The unconstitutional double-counting rule was a threat to the results of the upcoming parliamentary elections. Following the announcement of the results of the elections, the losing party, dissatisfied with their outcome, would have legal grounds to challenge the outcome of the popular will in the court. Remember, the draft Electoral Act, considered by the Venice Commission, did not contain such a rule. Remember, during the discussions on the new electoral rules, representatives of our faction have repeatedly pointed out that this rule is not in conformity with the Basic Law. Initially, there was no doubt that the double voting rule violated the equal opportunities of candidates. Indeed, those who run both in the majority district and on the party list are in a better position than those who have chosen one of the proposed options. I also recall that, in 1998, the Constitutional Court had already considered the issue of double balloting and had declared such a possibility unconstitutional. Given that the same text of the Ukrainian Constitution is currently in force, it is not surprising that the court has reaffirmed the unconstitutionality of the law. For the Party of the Regions as powerful as the country's leading political force.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u151	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u152	It is very important that the elections take place democratically, honestly, in an equal and competitive struggle, and no one has been able to question their results. Thank you very much for your attention. Everyone with a bright holiday coming!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u153	Thank you. Mitz Orestes. Get ready, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u154	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear Ternopil community! This year, we face with hope one of the greatest festivals of Christ’s resurrection. Ternopilska has a special place on the religious map of Ukraine, and we have the highest percentage of Christian temples and active religious communities in Ukraine. In terms of population, the religious network of the region has tripled over the years, and today there are almost 1 000 religious communities. We have one of the greatest centers of the Christian world: The Pocavian Holy Lavra and the Marian Spiritual Center at Zvarnica, which visit millions of believers each year. Over the past two years, we have forgotten what interfaith conflicts are, learn to live in peace and love together, learn to live, not in the past, but in the future. To ensure this worthy future is our shared community with you, the "Representation of Ternopolska", which brings together all the patriots scattered across and outside the various political structures. There is no division in the "Representation of Ternopolska" by religion, and there is a common goal: to take care of the development of the country's homeland and to increase the well-being of its inhabitants. Faith in Christ the Savior helped our countrymen at all times. And today, my countrymen hope that God’s people will become real masters on their own earth. Easter days are also the time to pay tribute to all those who are not alive, who, having plunged into eternity, left us their love and life experience. We think of them in heartfelt prayer and in a good word, previously cleaning up the graves of our relatives and loved ones. On behalf of the Ternopolska Representation, I wish that the miraculous celebration of Christ's resurrection would bring love and light to every family, sincerity and good in the relationship, to work together. May God’s blessing be a guarantee of peace on our earth. Spiritual rebirth and the realization of the most fulfilling expectations! A sincere harvest of strong health, great happiness, and strength in all the beginnings and activities for the benefit of Ukraine. Christ Voscres! The truth of Voscres!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u155	Vladimir Leschenko, please. Prepare Chago. He's giving it to Hanushtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u156	Vladimir Leschenko faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! April 26, Ukraine will mark the next difference since the Chernobyl disaster. However, some excitement from the authorities about the preparations for this tragic date in the neighbouring and affected areas of Chernigiv region: Kozelecki, Chernigivski, Ripkinski, Gordnjanski, Cerski, Korukovsky and Semeninski is not observed. It is likely that the authorities, who each year are fit to look at how concerned they are about the problems of the inhabitants of these areas and how they care about the Chaes disaster fighters, will tell us how they will help the affected areas and people in the future, and they will forget them again for a year. Last year, until the 25th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster in preparation for the arrival of several presidents and prime ministers of foreign countries in March/April, heavy work was brewing from the point of view of the economic development of the Chernobyl road. The government then allocated some 200 million dollars from the budget. The road was made, but the issue of creating social infrastructure in the Chernobyl area and the necessary rural conditions remained unresolved. By the end of March of this year, I had a personal reception and a meeting with the voters of the Ripkini region. During these activities, I learned about the new gift of power to the inhabitants of the polluted territories. Almost all villages where the Chernobyl disaster has banned the use of traditional water sources and is supplied with water from the artesian wells have three times as high as the 1 February tariff on water. The population of the village of Misa, which is 33 kilometers [33 km] from the AES, was most unhappy. Here, over a cubic metre of water used, we will now have to pay 49 bucks 99 dollars -- almost 10 times more than in Ripach and Chernigov. At the same time, officials threaten residents that if they do not sign contracts for water consumption with such a cabal tariff, they will be excluded from water supply. Do such actions coincide with the social initiatives of President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovič of Ukraine and with repeated public statements by Prime Minister Nikola Janović Azarov that there is no basis for raising tariffs in Ukraine? Similarly, the price of a cubic meter of water in Gubich and in other villages has also been tripled. The district’s management claims that tariffs did not increase if the state allocated funds from the budget. The Communist faction expresses outrage over the treatment of people affected by the Chernobyl disaster and demands that the government take steps to review decisions regarding the sharp rise in water tariffs. Please consider my statement to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Azarov Mikli Janović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u157	Thank you. Shago gives Hanushtak Yuri. Please. Get ready, Perstenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u158	Jury's shame, "BUT is the Fatherland." The holding of the National Round Table on April 5, despite ignoring its exposure to mainstream media, can be considered a serious manifestation of December 1, initiated by 11 gray patriots, who can be described as the conscience of the nation without exaggeration. It is remarkable that among these apostles of the Ukrainian spirit are the principals of all the churches of the Orthodox ritual: the UCC, the UPCC. This inspires hope, for the hopes of our numerous foreign foes and native mancures to play in addition to the language and religious map of the country’s dissipation seem to have not been justified. The creation of a national round table at a time when society lost its moral orientation, when a self-proclaimed pseudoelite tries to impose a predatory pattern of behavior, may or may not be the last protection of Ukrainianism in Ukraine. The idea of a national round table will be successful if its noble goals are accompanied by institutions and procedures. The initiators of the round table will have to answer the question that society is asking. Are we directly involved in the political process? What is the form of social dialogue? How can you influence the actions of authorities? The first question was clearly answered by Julia Timoshenko: The availability of moral authority will embellish a unified list of democratic opposition. But you can understand the position of social dialogue initiators to distance themselves from political structures and institutions, to guide the entire nation, not the part represented by the party. It's about the Ukrainian parties, not the Fifth Column representatives in Ukraine who were currently occupying Parliament. Evidence of this is the Kharkiv Pact — a shameless betrayal of national interests, a banal trade in state property for individual oligarchs. And if it were Ukrainian! Regrettably, native nuvarians view Ukraine as an industrial field, not a country to which they associate their lives and are going to take root, creating an environment that is comfortable for humans. Otherwise, they would not buy property in Monaco, hide capital in offshores, give royal gifts to cultural institutions in other lands. Can a national round table be a mediator between power and opposition? I'd love to. At the moment, however, the authorities have shown no desire to hold a dialogue with the opposition. Because it should be premeditated that power is not eternal, that it will be changed, if not through fair elections, by a social explosion. It is necessary to stop political repression, release political prisoners. Finally, God and his people will appreciate the essence of today’s authority. At the moment, our political power needs the help of the National Round Table officials in a constant, impartial and objective assessment of our activities from programming principles to human resources decisions. And we are confident of the wisdom of the patriarchs of the Ukrainian spirit, their ability to rise above the political situation, to rely on sound reason, and on God’s commandments. Tasty Belt, dear Ukrainians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u159	Stop it, Marina. Queen's here, please. Yeah, we've got a helmet out there. Will you be performing?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u160	I would like to inform you of the disastrous situation with regard to the ports of Ukraine. Last year the Rhine port recycled about one and a half million tons of cargo, but the port's capacity is 14 and a half million tons of cargo, so we see a tenth of the port's capacity is being realized today. In 2012, the port situation remained critical. At the beginning of the year, a large part of the group was sent on unpaid leave for a month. At the same time, it was emphasized that non-necessary vacations could be extended. As the port manager Vasili Lazowski Portowikov informed us, they transferred 50 per cent of the work week. But how to survive on those 50 percent was not explained to them. There was no explanation for how to feed children for 50 per cent of how to pay for housing for 50 per cent. And they didn't explain whether or not Vodocanel, Oblenergo, Oblegas will meet and if the tariffs are cut in half. The delay in paying wages frightens people by the fact that they can be followed by a failure in the debt gap from which you can no longer get out. Unfortunately, over the years of independence, the Government did not want to hear about the problems of porters, and every second port in Ukraine is in that state. From interviews with dockers, it is clear that in Reni and other ports in Ukraine, they deliberately want to discredit the very State form of ownership of Ukrainian ports. The situation in Rena is paradoxical. There is a railway section belonging to the Odessa Railway, but not related to it, but connected to the Moldovan Railway. The delivery of goods depends only on the decision of the neighbouring party. The Ministry of Infrastructure also has a waiting position. I recall that, as early as 1992, the transporters understood the importance of the construction of the Izmail-Reni railway line and soon the Odessjöldorproject Institute of GPI prepared a technical justification for the construction of the line. The Government has issued additional acts and regulations, but so far the train is there. Several branch construction options have already been developed, but because we do not have railways, urban enterprises can be virtually destroyed and we will lose another port. If you remember, the first problem we faced was Yushchenko and the previous presidents, when we made Moldova, when it was never a maritime state, by giving them a plot of land, and they built the port of Jürdulesta there, in fact, everything stopped today. The situation in Reni is exacerbated by the failure of the State-wide Small Town Development Programme adopted in 2004, i.e. there are no alternatives if the port stops suddenly. Therefore, on behalf of the Communist faction, I appeal to Prime Minister Nikolai Azarov, Deputy Prime Minister of Infrastructure Boris Koleznikov, to respond immediately to the situation in the port of Reni and other ports of Ukraine and to provide direct ownership of the budgetary enterprise of our country. I also appeal to Mr. Efimenko not to take a waiting position, to set up a working group, to leave and to study the matter. I request that you consider the request made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u161	Please, helmet. He's got Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u162	Dmitry Schlemko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Dear compatriots, you must all be waiting for the social initiatives of President Yanukovic and the "improvement of people's lives" to begin at last. Although, I remind you, this "today" was almost yesterday, but it would be good to have it tomorrow, and it's moving tomorrow, and somehow closer to October's parliamentary elections, to fool people with less financial costs. As they say in the people, "and eat fish, and don't eat fish." A party of regions, together with Yanukovic, are searching for sources of funds to fulfill their promises. One of them must be a new wave of massive privatization. So far, everything that has been privatized has come into the hands of the oligarchs of the Party of Regions, who have become the richest people not only in Ukraine but also in Europe. Is it in their hands today? National wealth. In order to fool ordinary Ukrainians before the elections, and at the same time not to reduce the wealth of the rich, but, rather, to multiply it, the Party of Regions is cunning. The point is that assets of state property that have been banned for 20 years of independence by Ukraine for privatization are now excluded from this list and proposed for privatization. I believe that everyone who listens and sees us will for the first time determine who they will belong to tomorrow. Among the facilities planned to be privatized in 2012 are unique enterprises that work effectively, with thousands of production units, a convenient land location, a capital building, and a regular payment of taxes to government and local budgets. In time, the name is only one of them: the Mayan factory, the Feodosian shipbuilding company More, the scientific and manufacturing association "Kyivska Automatikacy of Petrovsky", the state-owned enterprise, the scientific and manufacturing complex. "The Star is a March Project", "The Turbot" and many others. These companies are strategically important for the economy and security of the state, they develop and manufacture weapons, military equipment and special products for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The list of enterprises planned to privatise in 2012 includes 24 energy-generating and energy-generating companies whose privatisation procedure will follow a simplified procedure. And privatization authorities won't even have information about end-user owners who will be given control over Ukraine's energy objects. It's scary because when you focus on the whole field of the fuel-energy complex in one hand, no one in the state will even know who or when they can submerge the country into darkness or make a national energy complex. In this way, it is planned to transfer dozens of state-owned enterprises at no cost in order to continue its domination and oppression of the Ukrainian people from the billions that have been earned.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u163	Eugene Volintz. The next one is Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u164	Respectable voters, respected colleagues, respected Adam Ivanovich! Today, on television screens and newspapers, we can learn that Mr. Tigipco is the father and ideologist of the luxury tax. My party friends and I are hearing such a statement. I recall that the Company had introduced a bill three times before this bright thought had visited Mr. Tihyp's head. Our legislative initiative has not supported the national parliament on three occasions, including the associates of the newly discovered ideologist. Today, when the party's rating is rapidly going down, Sergey Tigipco decided to resort to the test and issue the Company's initiative for his own. I draw your attention to the fact that, apart from the similarity to the title of the bill, everything else has little in common. And if the Communists' legislative initiative meant that rich people would have to pay for the crisis, the Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister's bill is intended to bring all the few Ukrainians, whom today with great tension, to the middle class, below the poverty line. On your own, with the easy hand of Kabmin and the Minister of Social Policy, the apartments were 120 square metres away, the houses were 250 square metres away, the 3 litre motor vehicles and also the docks and dog booths. In doing so, the list of non-taxable objects was coined by Mr. Tighip’s subordinates. They included all non-permanent accommodations: animal accommodation, inventory storage if they are located on one site with a home which is a permanent residence. Thus, a house of 285 square metres, a total of 130 square metres, with many children living in it, became the home of an oligarch. At the same time, connected to the beautiful stables, guest houses and tennis courts, Sergey Leonidovic and his supporters feel that they have no relation to the luxury of their relationship. Now, if there's a barn on six tolls of a simple worker, a dog's booth, he'll have to pay a tax for that luxury, as well as for a maintenance of a Mercedes about 1995 engine size of 4.2 liters. It turns out that the wealthiest people in Ukraine will not be affected by Mr. Tigipko's luxury tax law, and ordinary Ukrainians will have to pay the lion's share. Dear colleagues, respected comrades, in drafting the Law for luxury, we, the Communists, sought to ensure that the socially unprotected segments of the population received additional assistance from the well-being of the people. The Minister of Social Policy of Tigypto, his associates have withdrawn from our legislative initiative a single name. I am sure that in Ukraine there are enough healthy people who can understand that our bill reflects the interests of ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u165	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u166	I am convinced that the truth is on our side and that we Communists will do our utmost to promote the interests of the workers of Ukraine. It's time to change a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u167	Thank you. Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u168	On the eve of the Passover festivals, and especially on the last day of the work of the Supreme Council, you probably need to talk less about state problems, and yet more about the celebration, about the greetings of all the Ukrainians, because from this rostrum they heard a lot of troubles, so it happened that I am now the last one to speak on this last day, so I must welcome from all of our parliamentary corps all of our Ukrainians with these bright holidays. In particular, I would like to welcome our Ukrainians from the western region, since it is only during the Passover days that we have to, and it has happened that the whole family is gathered together at one family table, and in just a few days, all the bosses and their sons will go to work around the world. And I wanted them to return alive and well, to earn money for their family, to bring new joy, and to be reunited with a large family at one feast table. With the Light festivals of you! Christ Voscres! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-13-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to take part in the "Variable" speech had this opportunity. Those statements that had been addressed and asked to be considered as parliamentary inquiries, I ask the Secretariat to formulate accordingly. I remind you, Your Honor, that you and I will be working next week on committees, factions. The next plenary session will be held on April 24. As we agreed at the beginning of today's meeting, on Monday's Conciliation Council, we're not going to be spending, and basically the next plenary week of April 24, we're going to be working on a work plan for this week, because you understand that we're practically, apart from the basic issues, one of them is the Criminal Procedure Code, the other is practically unexamined, so we have a formal agenda. I am sincerely associated with the words of my fellow voters, who addressed our people in Ukraine with the greetings of the greatest festival we will be celebrating. And I would like to sincerely wish that, in fact, there would be better things in our country for us to celebrate this celebration, and with new powers, we would begin to carry out the great tasks that stand before each one of us. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
