ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:04]] The 415 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, on request. Without the Conciliation Council? Aah! Well, of course. In accordance with the Rules, honourable national MPs have called for a recess to be announced so that they can consult on matters of order and make a statement. It's a faction of "BUT" -- "Fatherland" -- "Our Ukraine" -- "National Self-Defense". A break of up to 16 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u2	A break of 30 minutes was announced. Who will make the statement? Andrew Parubius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u3	Parisi Andrew, authorized to announce a statement from the BUT faction and "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". In the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, in grave violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, the First Vice-Speaker of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk, has put forward a bill for the privatization of the Ukrainian gas transport system. First, there was an application from two BUT factions and our Ukraine for a recess. According to the law, the break was to be announced, but in spite of the law’s decision, the break was not announced. Second, it was disgracefully refused by the NH-NS faction. And thirdly, the vote took place outside the time allocated to the plenary. Despite the fact that the bill of government has been withdrawn, we believe that the attack on the gasogine will continue by making changes to the second reading. The Communist-Oligarchic majority, which is now in the Supreme Council, has once again demonstrated that they are ready to be rudely and cynically violating the law to achieve their political goals. Following the adoption of the Kharkiv agreements today, they are trying to pass on the Ukrainian gas transport system. But Ukrainian GTS today is the only guarantee of Ukraine's energy security. As long as the national gas transport system is under the control of the Ukrainian State, we can talk about the stable supply of blue fuel to Ukrainian families. I'm only going to name three key points. First. To transport gas to Europe, there is no alternative to Ukrainian GTS, a unique 37,000 - km - long gas transport system. Its uniqueness is that it includes five underground gas depots for gas storage. The other one. In the event of the sale of Ukrainian GTS, our nation will lose any weight to regulate the price of gas in the internal market. Ukraine may not be affected by the price of gas, as was the case in Belarus, which sold 100 percent of Beltegazu shares to the Gazprom. Third. Now it's clear that Ukrainian GTS want to buy at reduced prices. Gazprom manager Miller's 20 billion dollar price of Ukrainian GTS is insolently speculative. Experts estimate that the price is 80 - 120 billion dollars. The Ukrainian GTS was and will belong to the Ukrainian people. The government of Yanukovich is coming to an end. In six months, after the parliamentary elections, I am convinced that there will be a Ukrainian majority here in Parliament that will repeal those laws that have been passed by representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u4	Complete the sentence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u5	And those who initiated manipulations with strategic objects would be criminally responsible. That's how it's going to be very fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'll be with you in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I remind you that at the Conciliation Council meeting on the proposal of opposition factions, it has been agreed that a bill by the national deputy Karmazin will be considered, which, with the approval of the experts and the committee, corresponds to the national interests of Ukraine. Please, you haven't been to the Conciliation Council, so sit down. And by the way, it's a good thing you came forward, and I'm asking the secretariat to calculate for a microphone broken out of salary. The other one. Dear colleagues, for that matter. When it comes to the gas system, it can then be accused of being a waste in the European Union. Because it's on the European Charter requirement, it's about divisiveness, overcoming the monopolies of Naftogaza Ukraine, in which everyone is interested. So I would ask, my dear colleagues, not to look for problems where there are absolutely no problems. We're going to have problems, reasons for political conflicts, the main thing to do is to solve things normally, civilized in the session room. And I'd like to ask us to continue doing the arrangements we've reached. Now, if there are, please, factions in one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, it seems that those who blocked the rostrum today were very eager to allow the gas system to be privatized, because they all made provocations for the purpose of passing the bill where the provocation was. The other one. Because my name was mentioned, a friend who screams. The other one. The representative of the NH-NS faction didn't get the speech for one simple reason, because he didn't sign up and the faction didn't authorize him to speak. And I know that whoever wanted a vote isn't a great specialist in this field, which he was going to say, you have bigger and better experts in this situation. So your provocations didn't go through at 2:15, and by the way, no later law was passed. And most of all. You accuse Communists in vain because you see the press: the Communists did not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u8	Please, Alexander Ephraim. Then there's the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u9	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the opposition for helping to adopt the gas transport bill. Without your help, we would hardly have consolidated so clearly and voted in favour of the bill within such a time frame. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wanted to talk about another. I don't understand what we've lost half an hour's work. If our opposition colleagues do not want to work, let them openly state that they do not want to work. They had two hours off when they could gather and discuss the statement with which they had left. They took advantage of the break in person, and then they came to work, and they made us hang around the hall for half an hour. They once considered the amount of money they spent on the custody of deputies, let them count once again and understand the damage they had caused to the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u10	Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u11	Thank you, Your Honor. The MP's Group of Reforms for the Future has deliberately supported Bill 9429-1 Yuri Karmazin, because we see no violations of the State's position or the State's interests by privatizing Ukraine's gas transport system. And we've developed this consciously because we haven't seen any convincing evidence of what it is. The second question. Today, there are reports of a violation of the Rules. We haven't seen him either. Next question. We are talking about the desire to discuss the matter in another way today. So there was no discussion in the hall. Too bad she wasn't here. Because you could express your position on each particular issue. Not even Carmazin was allowed to speak. So our conscious position leads to the next. You don't have to talk about it, and you don't have to speculate about what doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u12	Please, Andrew School. Will there be someone? Goodyma? Goodima, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u13	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I, on behalf of the faction "The Yulia Block Timoshenko – "The Fatherland" -- want to state that the government bill envisioned privatization. Our colleague Karmazin's bill, although it can be said that he is better than the worst, but he foresees alienation. In our terminology, the word "exclusion" can predict the following. NAC Naftogaz can be divided, 10 billion debt will be transferred to the shoulder of a separate "Ukrattransgas". After that, there will be an appeal by creditors, mainly Russian, to the Stockholm Arbitration Court, and thus we will lose the GTS. And in closing, I want to say, as a participant in those events. Yes, the Communists did not vote in favour of this shameful law, but this law was enforced by Communist Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u14	Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin, or who's there? Please
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u15	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm addressing you, all of you, with one request. First, read the document I prepared. And you had to understand that this bill has destroyed Ukraine from what happens to privatization is the first. And the second is clearly in black and white it reads: "Exception of major foundations and state-owned enterprises that carry out transport activities by highway or distribution pipelines, storage in underground gas shelters, transfer them from balance to concession, lease, lysing, mortgage, management, to the statutory fund of other legal persons, other acts that may lead to the exclusion of the core funds and shares of these enterprises, as well as the main funds and shares of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, the subsidiaries and its established enterprises are prohibited, except where 100 percent of them are state-owned." That's the first one. I would like those who comment, including in mass media.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u16	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u17	Ten seconds. For commentators to read and make suggestions. Nobody wants to bring anything, and then they can just throw something away. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear national MPs, that's all. All of it. Dear colleagues, we're done. Dear colleagues, they exchanged their thoughts on this matter. Let's get down to business. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of pension assets is being announced for consideration. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:42:20]] For 223 Decision taken. The rapporteur is a member of the National Commission, which regulates the financial services markets of Lithuania's Andri Volodymyrovich. I'm warning you, he's not a son, he's not a relative, and he doesn't have to. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of the bill put forward for your consideration is to secure the pension assets that are placed in deposit accounts or stored in commercial banks. The substance of the proposed legislative changes is this. First, in the Ukrainian Law on Banks and Banking, in part of the liquidation procedures in commercial banks, it is proposed to provide for a warning that the management of the pension assets of the Stockpiling Pension Fund and the assets of non-state pension funds is carried out in accordance with the laws of Ukraine on the "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance" and "On Non-State Pension Insurance". This is about the existing legislative prescriptions of the last two named laws that such pension assets cannot be included in the liquidation mass of savings banks. Secondly, it is proposed to place the requirements of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on liabilities to the Cumulative Pension Fund and non-state pension funds in the first place to meet creditors' requirements in the liquidation procedure of banks. Thirdly, the project provides for the possibility of the early termination of a contract for the maintenance of the Pension Fund by a savings bank in the event of the bankruptcy of such a bank, the decision on its liquidation, the imposition of a sanctioning regime or the appointment of a temporary administration of such a bank. The adoption of the proposed changes will protect the property rights and interests of insured persons of the Custody Pension Fund and non-state pension fund participants; the establishment of transparent and clear rules for the return of pension deposits in bank accounts. Based on what we have learned, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u20	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Karakai will be speaking from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered the draft bill at its meeting and recommends that it be accepted as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council supports the adoption of the bill as a basis, but it has observations that can be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u22	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues who insist, please sign up for the talk. Names of the national MPs, please. Stanislaw Arzewittin, the right to speak is given by Vladimir Moysik. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, we would like to improve the system of non-state pension funds. We have a system of non-state, non-state pension funds in Ukraine for six years, and we actually stand at zero. Why? The answer is very simple. The first level is the deficit of the Pension Fund, we have the largest, largest in Europe and the largest in Central Asia, according to IMF estimates, which makes it impossible to develop a second level. The second level is the absence of a state to protect the property rights of the persons of the accumulated pension fund. The second level now provides for compulsory and compulsory government insurance, and on the other hand, the State has not established completely State guarantees at the second level. As for the third level that we're talking about with you today, the main motivation for developing the third level of the non-state pension fund was the pension deposit. And, you know, the main motivation that was, is just a simple deposit that was guaranteed until yesterday by the State Guarantee Fund and within 150,000. You know that this left-hand half of the room has passed a bill that has removed the rule that the State Guarantee Fund is a state institution and, by the way, the President signed it today, the standards of 150,000 that you and I guaranteed with you in this room are not in this bill. And today we no longer guarantee $150,000, including under non-state pension funds. Unfortunately, it's a step back. As far as this bill is concerned, this is about when the bank goes bankrupt, what will be the turnaround in the bankrupt bank of the non-state pension fund. A third level is proposed, i.e. after the commitment is paid when the health of the citizens is damaged, then the salary, then the Deposit Guarantee Fund, and then the nonstate pension fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u24	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u25	Of course, the first reading can be supported, but we need to make major adjustments to the second reading in order to be motivated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u26	Oleg Zarubinsky, factions of the People's Party. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u27	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, our distinguished colleagues, in our view, in the view of the faction of the People's Party, this legislative initiative is a certain answer, it is a certain reaction, in our view, to a sufficiently adequate response to the problem that has arisen in the banking services market. Everybody knows about this problem, it's not only talked about by financiers, not only by experts, but also by people who suffer from situations where they don't get their money back, they don't actually return their pension assets, they don't return assets that are placed by non-state pension funds in banking institutions. This problem is objective, if you can say so, because it did not arise today, it originated in the banking market as a result of a financial crisis, it is clear, but the main thing is the failure of individual banks to recover pension assets. And this reaction is fair, is, once again, I want to emphasize, deliberately repeating that word, is adequate enough. We've analyzed this bill, and the reaction to it, more specifically, is to the profile committee. We can agree with the conclusion of the committee of profile, where, among other things, it is noted that adoption of the proposed changes will allow for the elimination of shortcomings in current legislation, they really are, we have already said that it will protect the property rights and interests of the insured persons of the cumulative pension fund and the participants in non-state pension funds. And also, I think that's what's most important, will help set transparent and clear standards for the return of pension deposits that are in bank deposits. Thus, as a summary, I can say that this bill, its implementation, will be in the interests of thousands and thousands of our citizens. The faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u28	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be Ganushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, allow me to draw your attention to this bill because of the prism of the pension system, which is also imperfect, which is also opaque, which is both unjust and which is such that there is no alternative. Ukraine began reforming its pension system in 1993, when we adopted the concept of social security for citizens. From 1993 to 2003, Poland completed the reform of the pension system, providing about $500 to $800 per month of average pension to its pensioners. Stanislav Arzvitin spoke because of the prism of securities funds, and I want to tell you because of the prism of the need for further reform of the pension system. You and I understand very well, without further developing the confidence of the population in the accumulation system and the guarantee that a normal deposit protection mechanism will be installed, we will not be able to develop a second level of pension security for our citizens. Today, we have the following situation. The accrual system of pension insurance is a general and public insurance policy. But you and I are probably for the first time attracting the role of the state, and the State's attention to the need to ensure that these contributions are guaranteed. Imagine why it doesn't work that way today. It's so hard to have a non-state pension. There's no confidence, there's no confidence in citizens that they're one or the other. will not cease to exist, nor will he, along with him, cease to pay his pension payments. So today, a colleague of Arzewittin said about this, about how many payments were made in the event of a moratorium. I think, my fellow Members, this bill can be adopted in the first reading and for the second reading, we have to write clearly on the orderlyness. I think they have pension payments. The deposit guarantee fund will have to be paid in advance, because otherwise we will lose confidence in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u30	Microphone. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u31	to further deepen and develop the reform of the pension system in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u32	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u33	Gentlemen, as my colleague and previous speaker continued to say, I can explain why there is mistrust in the population. Look at the law that says pension insurance. Same stockpiling fund. From the beginning, and the people who do insurance, they see everything, and they understand very well what kind of scheme is being introduced. A gang’s absolute scheme is in place, according to which the State will use the mandatory insurance fund for 25 years. Because she will be. Apparently, the Prime Minister is coming to the Pension Fund and he says, "Your money will not be used for 25 years, hand it to me, buy my bonds. And then 25 years from now, another government will take it and buy it back." Who are we kidding? That's what I'm telling you. There's no trust, it's like putting out the fire that is. All over the world, they're being very, very careful and very mistrustful about the stockpiling funds. All the countries in Eastern Europe that have implemented this fund have been burned because as soon as they can steal, they will always steal. We don't have a system that runs automatically because we don't have any tradition of not stealing from this country. Management. And it's been seen all along. So let's review the general basic law that it provides. And we'll give up the accumulation system and replace it with a normal, solid form system. By the way, it can be implemented and done literally tomorrow. And then they'll believe us, and then the third level they're talking about right now. People will believe in this third, because then there will be a guarantee of a state that will not cheat at this second level. Won't the state fool you for what? Because she's, like, 25 years old, she's actually shooting, she's running.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u34	Finish up. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u35	Thank you. But I will be against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u36	Right. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority also recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis for further work. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine relating to the provision of pension assets. [[Registration number 9687]] Please vote. [[16:55:54]] For 267 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act has been announced. [[on the grounds for the registration of means of transport]] Registration number 10021. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[16:56:29]] For 226 Decision taken. Rapporteur – Deputy Minister of Interior Viktor Ivanovich Ratushnjak, co-rapporteur – Head of the Transport and Communications Committee Mikhailo Ivanovich Mironenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u37	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, which is designed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine and the corresponding mandate of the government. The purpose of the project, the act, is to make it impossible to refuse to carry out a public registration, re-registering of means of transport where owners of means of transport or authorized to use these means of transport are liable to pay fines, to violate rules, regulations and standards in the field of road safety. The bill was agreed without any comments from Minnen, Minfin, and Minusto. The implementation of the act will not require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u38	Thank you, sit down, please. Mikhail Ivanovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10021]] [[of 09.02.12]] The purpose of the bill is to abolish the prohibition of State registration, re-registration of means of transport when owners of means of transport or authorized to use these means of transport are liable to pay fines for infringements of the rules, regulations and standards in the field of road safety. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in general supported the idea of the bill, but it pointed out that the Supreme Council's consideration of this time contained a number of bills proposing substantial changes to the same article of the Road Traffic Act, which is proposed to be amended by the bill under consideration. Taking into account the above and the outcome of the discussion at the meeting on March 14, 2012, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, are we going to make decisions? Please sign in. Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "Fathership".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u41	To me, it's even a surprise, my distinguished colleagues, that the Cabinet of Ministers suddenly passed this bill, which liberalizes the process of registering vehicles. To be honest, we would have long had to look back and fundamentally review our regime, the legislative regime for the movement and registration of motor vehicles. People today know very well in Ukraine that it's worth going through an official, not even the President, but the Prime Minister, or that, for two or three hours, it's actually closing down a movement that's totally unacceptable for a European civilised state. I think this is a standard that is accepted when a person can register their vehicle, if he has, let's say, a debt that this debt, we know with you. What's obviously necessary is to think, let's say, even the same route that Azarov travels, this Coastal, Korchiatian array, where they're absolutely consciously placing 60 kilometers of speed, where you can quickly walk, where there's no walkways, there's no traffic lights, there's a 60-mile speed on purpose, and there's an inspector sitting behind every bush and just waiting for a person to get hit. Because of this, we will support this bill. He's really liberal, he democratizes the situation. We have a lot of unregistered means of transport just because, in today's poverty and the lumpenization of our society, people can't pay that fine and because of that they can't register their means of transport. We will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u42	Vladimir Moses. Ruslan Knazevich, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u43	Dear Head, dear colleagues, this is when we are forced to support the government. I think there's no serious professional objection to that bill here in the session room, because it's really on time. Another thing is, it's too bad we're only here right now, and it took a special order from the president. But I fully support the fact that liberalisation of this position will benefit. The other thing is that somehow you have to get out here from the point of view of the rules of norm-making technology, logically. There are several bills that provide for changes to be made to the same standard. Maybe it would be worth the government, because they're all government. If he proposes to take this as a basis, then call off the bill, and when it comes to the second reading, it is a complex approach to solving the issue. Or the other way around. Because it is allogeneic that, see, on January 16, January 19, and February, various changes are made to one article. As far as I'm concerned. The solution to this question, I would ask the government to pay attention to such a problem as re-registering driving licenses accordingly. You know, this is now being done according to the location of the owners of the means of transport. And that gave rise to a huge problem. The queues, again there's corruption, there's double opportunities, so to speak, there's people at the entrance offering their services and so on. Let's somehow define separate and special centers, where whoever lives, wherever they live, can come up and solve this question at any time. I personally have dozens of phone calls on the day about the need to settle this issue. Note this. And with regard to this bill, we propose to vote on the basis, and in the second reading, we offer a comprehensive solution to all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u44	Ivan Popescu, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u45	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! We're denying the procedure for state registration of vehicles because we're refusing. fines. Since our colleagues spoke and offered to accept as a basis and in general, on the other hand, Mr. Knazevitch said that we should prepare for the second reading. But there's nothing to prepare for the second reading, there's only one norm. Let's vote on this bill both on the basis and on the whole. And what Mr. Knazevitch said is that we will apply to other bills that are being submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u46	Asshole, please, mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u47	Thank you. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will support this bill. Moreover, we propose that it be voted as a law as a whole. Because there's really nothing to consider here. This is, unfortunately or fortunately, a case where, in fact, the authorities are taking a step for the people. Because the strange thing is, if a person has debts on fines and there's no way to pay them off, he can't sell his vehicle, including to pay off those debts. That is why this law is positive because the ban on state registration is lifted, the re-registration of means of transport when the owner of the means of transport or authorized to use these means of transport is liable to pay fines in the area of road safety. We're talking again about what we're going to be supporting this bill, the MP group of Reforms for the Future. And we suggest that we put it in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u48	That was the conclusion of the discussion. Knyazevitch, a line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, I don't mind having this decision made today as a whole. I don't want us to somehow create confusion on our own in norm-making technology, we're still confused. But it was just then that I asked the government to review the legislative initiatives they were taking. Maybe there's a point to call off and instead propose a comprehensive bill to amend the Road Traffic Act that deals with all the issues that they have now scattered in a series of bills on this issue. It would be logical, right, and I think we would, including by a comprehensive vote from our faction, support this bill in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. That's what I'm asking. If there's no objection, let's put him to the vote on the basis and in general. But what Ruslan Knazevitch said about the following bills, I think we need to go to the government the other day to give a single bill with complex changes, if that's what we need. No objection to the offer? None. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Law amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act. [[on the grounds for the registration of means of transport]] Registration number 10021. Please vote. [[17:07:01]] For 322 The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to consider a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to ensure public order and security before, during, and after football matches. Registration number 9662. Please, Chechtev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u51	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The law is indeed very important in the context of the upcoming Euro-2012 competitions. But since it is not in final agreement with the relevant law enforcement authorities, please postpone consideration of the bill to the next plenary week. Thank you. The author of the bill, Koleschenko, requested the same thing, would request that the plenary be transferred to the Chamber next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, we must vote on this matter. Since it is included in the schedule, I will put to the vote a motion to postpone consideration of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on ensuring public order and security before, during and after football matches]] [[Registration number 9662]] Please vote. [[17:08:40]] For 258. Decision taken. The bill has been transposed. The bill is postponed. I declare the draft Aquaculture Act pending consideration. [[9571 Registration Number]] Yes. The committee proposes that the subject be reinstated from the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please, maybe we'll be right there. What? Then the offer of a friend is to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:09:29]] For 227 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u53	Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, respected colleagues, water bioresources, which are raw materials for the fish industry of Ukraine, are formed by two main ways: industry and aquaculture. Aquaculture is the activity of artificial reproduction, maintenance and cultivation of hydrobials, fishes of crustaceans and other aquatic organisms in fully or partially controlled conditions of purposeful replenishment of water resources and conservation of biodiversity. Aquaculture is a specific activity and requires greater human involvement in the production of fish and other aquatic living resources compared to fishing. Aquaculture is such a type of agriculture that it is based on different resources and requires a separate approach to management. Aquaculture production also has a wide range of impacts on other areas. Individual legislation in the area of aquaculture will help to improve the management of aquaculture and increase the production of fish products. This is in line with the world’s trends, according to which aquaculture plays an important role in overcoming the consequences of reducing fish production by overfishing. According to the agricultural and food organizations, aquaculture is the fastest growing sector of animal production in the world. One of the biggest factors that significantly inhibit its development in Ukraine is the lack of appropriate legislative and regulatory provisions. Therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy at its meeting, which took place on February 7, decided to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the bill. And since there was no such controlling understanding of the difference between aquaculture and fishing, the committee decided to send him to work. As one of the co-authors of this bill, I ask you all, taking into account the committee's decision, and as the author of this bill, I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u54	Please, mike, finish. You all have it, don't you? Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, then please sign up for the speech. Yes, the names of the national deputies. Andrew Shevchenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" refers to the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u55	John Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u56	To Ivan Kirilenko, please, the "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, it's a very commendable wish for the drafters to finally respond to the enormously principled problem that exists in the country that we're silent about. If you read, as they say, between terms, this law should read the following. We need to radically change our diet, especially the growing generation and generations to come. All over the world, this has been understood, and today the priority is given to the beneficial proteins, the full protein of fish origin itself. What the author spoke for today, but he was said to be a scientist, and I speak a simple language, which means this in translation. All countries are doing so because the protein of fish and aquaculture, the micronutrients contained in these products, stimulates mental activity and protects the immune system, which is extremely relevant to the Ukrainian nation as well, we know about what. Therefore, the bill deserves support. It's missing the only thing that needs to be added to the budget every year for 5 years is 1 billion dollars, so we can solve this problem because the potential of Ukrainian water resources in this respect is only used by 20 percent. In fact, China has grown production of this product every year over the past 10 years. A laudable law. We'll support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u58	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u59	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. In support of what the previous colleague said, I would like to support this legislative initiative in another direction, in another river. Of course, the issue of dieting our citizens’ diet is very important, and from this point of view it is the right bill. But I'd like to talk about something else. Today, when a Ukrainian citizen comes to a store or a supermarket, most of the fish there are raised under controlled conditions. So this is the product of aquaculture. And Portugal has virtually no fish left. Industrial fishing is exhausting itself around the world, all over the world. Norwegian fish are sold in Portugal. But this Norwegian fish is caught, not in natural conditions, but in aquaculture conditions, i.e. under the control of those who grow the young and so on. Right, Ivan Grigorovich? In these circumstances, what the legislator is proposing separately is this promising and, I think, a sector that is going to be good or bad, but it's a fact that it's going to squeeze out, it's going to extract traditional industrial fishing, because the ocean doesn't reproduce what the 7 billion people on earth eat. And it's progressive, it's promising. It seems to me that the observation of scientific expertise, on the one hand, makes sense when it comes to the fact that there is a separate Law on Fisheries, but with the same success we can say that there is a law, and there must be an Law on organic raw materials or inorganic raw materials. That is, if we set out in an integrated way separately this issue, which is proposed by the legislators, it will be useful, including for the diet, including for the diet, but it will also be beneficial for the economy of Ukraine and for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u60	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u61	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I call upon you all to support this very important, timely bill, regardless of the fact that the Chief Legal Office, where the legal professionals work in the field of law, does not have any specialist in aquaculture, and most of them probably do not know what aquaculture is at all. The previous speakers, I fully support them, but I want to say a few words. The European Union and around the world say that over the last 50 years, fish stocks have decreased by almost 70 percent in the ocean or in the water. What some countries, including the European Union, have done on this issue. The European Union has adopted special laws that regulate and support this economy, because most European countries today provide for themselves, including the supply of almost 100 percent of the fish we consume in Ukraine, is aquaculture, especially valuable species such as the ostensible group, the trout group and others, and will thus provide the population with high-quality products that are so important to our nation. If we look at whether the Ukrainian per capita consumes every standard, medically speaking, you and I find that not only do not eat, we do not provide ourselves today with this vital product that is essential to our health. So probably without eating such important foods, and we have a high disease, we have a low-cost minimum population, and so on, and so on. If you take a country like Japan that is based on the diet of a fish product, life expectancy is high. And the last example I'm going to give you is literally. The Soviet government, as usual, supported development because Ukraine has unique opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u62	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u63	It has a unique supply of water, and these water resources need to be used comprehensively, especially when we're talking about farming and other agriculture. I'll give you an example of what we call Ukrainian World War I or Volin, where the only place where they grow is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u64	Thank you. Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u65	Now, Vladimir Mikhailovich, look, there is not enough time to discuss such an important issue. You know, when the reporter started talking, I started to count how much he was going to say aquaculture, 25 percent of the time, then I'm looking at 50 percent of the time, then I'm looking at 75. In short, 100 percent of the time he told us what aquaculture is. Well, it's not a lecture, it's a bill. So that's the procedure when we decide to work on a reduced procedure, and then we don't know what to do with it, because it's not even possible to tell what the bill is about, or it's about nothing, and then it has to be rejected, or it's about something, but then we all have to make a point that it's completely pointless to work on a reduced procedure. When they can't ask questions. When we can't listen to both the reporter and the committee. When we can't express ourselves properly. There's a situation where there's a reference from the Science and Technology Department and there's a proposal for the committee to re-read it. At the same time, the subject of this legislation is completely unclear. So I'm still making an offer. There is no need to put to the vote the issue of work after a reduced procedure, because it does not allow the bill to be properly discussed and does not allow our electorate to understand what the Supreme Council is doing. And what she accepts is for Ukraine or not. Or at the expense of Ukraine. Whether this is an empty-to-empty conversion or a simulation of the job. Still, it's not that bad, but it's a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. The committee suggests that the head of the committee be more specific when the committee suggests that the subject be reinstated from the legislative initiative. The main scientific and expert management made this recommendation: "There is no need for adoption of this project." At the same time, and in accordance with the Rules, the proposal for a vote is the first to be adopted on the basis of the draft Aquaculture Act. [[9571 Registration Number]] [[17:21:53]] For 299 Decision taken. With regard to the proposals made by the National MP of the Blackwolf, I'm informing you that we have until 6 p.m. today, and I think we have 15 minutes to consider 21 questions. So let's, like everyone else, you say, civilized parliaments, when you made a decision, approved the schedule of work until the issue is resolved. You don't support this proposal. And then. And I'm asking you not to engage in moralism later. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then, please, calm down! A draft Act amending Ukraine's Land Code and other legislative acts on land administration related to the establishment and change of territorial administrative units is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10042]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. Please vote. It's written here. The committee's offering. I have a committee proposal to make. [[17:23:13]] For the 220. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bevanzenko Valeriy Fedorovich, but we will have two co-reporters: from the Committee on Agricultural Policy and from the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, as this affects interests, including territorial communities. Please, Valery Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u67	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending Ukraine's Land Code and other Ukrainian legislation on land administration related to the establishment and change of the administrative and territorial units, Law No. 10042. In Ukraine there are 29 thousand,795 locations. So far, about half of these boundaries have been set by land - based projects. One of the negative factors that hinders the completion of the work and the setting of the boundaries of the population is the absence or outdatedness of the master plan. In addition, it should be noted that without the boundaries of the administrative and territorial units, the formation of a quality State land cadastre cannot be established. The bill provides for further amendments to the Ukraine Land Code and the Ukrainian Land Administration Act, on State land-use documentation expertise, including the definition of composition and basic requirements for the development, approval and approval of projects by the Land Administration Authority for the establishment of territorial boundaries; the second, on the determination of dispute settlement procedures for project reconciliation; and the third, on the possibility of establishing existing borders for population locations for the absence of general population plans. In doing so, it should be noted that this applies only to the boundaries of inhabited areas that have been established since Soviet times. Any change in such boundaries should take place in general order. Four. I'll hand over authority to the district councils to confirm the boundaries of villages and villages. The changes will allow the establishment of the boundaries of the population to be completed in the near future, which will contribute to the clear accounting of land, the formation of the State Land Cadastre, and the development of the territorial communities. As for the observation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, they mainly relate to the regulation of issues that have been violated in the bill, perhaps only after the adoption of the law on:
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u68	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u69	As to the comments of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, in some parts they deserve attention and will be included in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u70	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations Victor Sinchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In Ukraine, there are 29 thousand,794 settlements, and so far, land projects have set the limits of just over half of them. One of the negative factors that hinders the completion of work and the establishment of population boundaries is the absence or depreciation of general plans, planning schemes, planning, zoning of territories, detailed plans for them, which generate numerous disputes in the exercise of authority between government authorities and local self-government authorities, making it impossible to maintain a high-quality State land cadastre. In view of the foregoing, the need for urgent solutions to the problem of a clear distribution of powers between local authorities and executive authorities has now come to light by adopting the bill. It proposes appropriate changes that will help to establish the boundaries of the territorial units and to report them to the State Land cadastre. The Chief Research Administration's observation is largely technical and can be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading, as well as in the observation of our colleagues from the State Building Committee. During the consideration of the bill at its meeting, members of the committee were invited to replace the word “administrative-territorial units” with the words “area, city, village, village” in preparation for the second reading in the title of the bill, which would allow for a clear interpretation of the position of the bill on the conduct of work and changes in the existing boundaries of the city, village and village, rather than changing their administrative and territorial structure. As a result of its consideration of the bill at its meeting, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the proposed bill to be adopted on a basis. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u72	Deputy Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Viktor Mikolayovich Sinchenko Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed at its meeting on 22 February 2012 the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code and other legislative acts on the conduct of work with the land structure related to their change in the boundaries of the administrative and territorial units. [[Registration number 1042]] According to the Committee, the procedure for dealing with the administrative and territorial matters of Ukraine in accordance with article 92, paragraph 13, of the Constitution of Ukraine should be defined by a special law which should provide for the establishment and alteration of the administrative and territorial units, the appointment and renaming of the population items referred to them in certain categories, and so on. In addition, the bill contains a fundamental redistribution of powers between district and district councils. Part of the solution is to establish and change the largest category of administrative and territorial units of villages, villages. In this way these issues are actually being removed from the control of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and District Councils and in the Republic of Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The bill states that the decision to establish and change the boundaries of the territorial units at the same time as the decision to approve the draft land scheme for the change of the administrative and territorial units does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine as part of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as defined in article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine for the approval of the land structure projects. According to a discussion of the project, the committee concluded that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be recommended as a result of its first reading rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u74	So you've got it? Have a seat, please. Please sign up, distinguished national deputies, for the performance. Yes. National deputy Korge is handing over the right to speak to Yuri Hanustak. Please, Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u75	I'm handing over my word to Hanushkah Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u76	Gentlemen, the self-government committee has already said very well. So this is not the prerogative of the State Commission to resolve state issues. In all countries, the question of the delimitation of public authorities is decided solely on a political level. Look at the administrative maps, it's written in red: it's the jurisdiction of appropriate rural, urban, and so on. And the order of these things has long been defined. It is done as the delimitation of state borders is done. So this line is 200 meters, and within that line, I'll say again, when you have any questions between the neighbors, there's a demarcation, that's the definition of exactly where this line goes. This is absolutely not the kind of thing you need right now. I thought why this law was coming down. And now I have. In 2010, Derzcomym ordered work for 5 billion dollars to produce 50 million pieces of gold each. And now we really want to remove these rings, this money, from local self-government, because they have to do it. Look at the law, the last thing: it is an obligation to put these boundaries into character. Look, in this bill down here, this requirement is going to go, so it's going to be imposed. That's the 5 billion. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you very much to talk to the President. There are 5 billion left in the State Commission. You need 16 billion to remove your initiatives. Here's how $5 billion is taken from the $20 billion deficit, which is in the local budget, for completely unnecessary work. By the way, Kabmin is already preparing a project on some of the issues by the administrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u77	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u78	where it's installed. Administers, how their boundaries are defined. This is totally unnecessary and harmful because it costs money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u79	Chapel, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u80	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you know, the bill is quite contradictory, contradictory, I'd say. Indeed, we agree with the conclusion of our colleagues in the profile committee that today there are 92 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for the regulation of this matter, exclusively by special law. But I would like to remind you that the big discussion on the adoption of the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Division of Ukraine ended in nothing, and for today, on whether or not the other policies are "watching" this law. But the group is willing to support the bill in the first reading if at least the problems found in the creation and activities of the conciliatory commissions are removed from the second reading, in the conflict of interest between those or other subjects of the local executive authorities. So for the second reading, this bill needs careful work, and we're only allowing it to be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government is making a negative statement on the bill. This is the view of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. However, according to the Rules, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Land and other legislative acts relating to the conduct of work with the land administration in connection with the establishment and modification of the boundaries of the territorial units. [[Registration number 10042]] Please be sure. [[17:35:46.]] For 230 Copy that. Now. The factions, please. Region Party – 185, "BUT - "Patkashtina" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 4, communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 10, non-fractional – 11. Please, Ephraim, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u82	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we discussed on Monday at the Conciliation Council that we should vote in favour of the statement of the Supreme Council on Euro-Association. We placed it on the agenda this morning. We could have considered this issue today under the Rules. Convincing request from the faction to submit it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, this is really the language that went to the Conciliation Council. And yesterday, when we discussed this issue, there was an appropriate draft document. Let's put it this way: to keep this clean, I'm going to put a motion to vote on this issue now. As the Supreme Council decides, we will make decisions. May I have your attention, please? I would like to vote on the proposal to consider the day-to-day draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Statement: "On the conclusion of the Association Agreement, including a deeper and comprehensive free trade zone, a free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union (registration number 10161), please vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:37:35]] For 273 Decision taken. A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Is something wrong? [[17:37:59]] For 236 Decision taken. The reporter is Leonid Kojara.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u84	Dear National Deputies! Today is proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council, a draft statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the conclusion of an Association Agreement between our State and the European Union. Our constant position on European integration has always been that for us, European integration is primarily about achieving European standards in all spheres of social life. It is as an effective tool for achieving these standards that we are considering the EU Association Agreement, including the Agreement on a Deeper and Comprehensive Free Trade Area. On March 30, both Ukraine and the European Union are known to be counting. At the same time, we feel that it is time to give strong political impetus to the processes involved in making this agreement effective. That is why the Supreme Council's draft Declarations contain both a call for the European Union to act as soon as possible with the agreement and a recommendation to the executive authority of Ukraine on the implementation of appropriate internal procedures. We call on the European Union to demonstrate political will and to ensure that the Association Agreement, its ratification by member countries, is signed as soon as possible, and to ensure that the agreement is implemented even before it becomes effective. The relevant provisions of the basic Treaty of the European Union provide for this possibility. I mean, since you've all read the text of this statement, I want to say that there have been other amendments to the process of processing. In particular, paragraph 9 of the agreement, the word "not as a gift, but as a gift" should be deleted. Paragraph 2.8. should be supplemented by the words "para. 3 of the Central Electoral Commission", and paragraph 2.8 itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u85	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u86	as paragraph 3.1. "Ensure the right conditions for free and fair elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 28 October 2012" Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u87	Regarding the last position, I think it's equivalent because we're going to write, "The fish swims in the water." It is not the Central Election Commission that provides for civil society and people. So let's do it. It's supposed to provide an electoral organization. Well, what fair choices does the CBC provide? Fear God. Well, once again, you don't have to add butter to the porridge when that butter is there in advance. What does the CTC have to do with honest elections?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u88	I think so. Well, first of all, it's the only body that has general authority over elections, not the Cabinet of Ministers and not the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u89	That's not all. Not all the Supreme Council sees it that way. Please have a seat. Please sign up, Your Honor, for a discussion. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Maleshev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u90	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, has happened both in history and today in the Ukrainian society, which unfortunately has not so many issues that have a common and common consensus in Ukraine. One such issue is questions related to the issue of Ukraine’s Euro-Integration Desire. They are historical, objective. Therefore, the faction of the People's Party has no reason not to express its support for the Euro-integration aspirations of the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian people, and the Ukrainian society. And this should not depend, in our opinion, on the political situation, on even the electoral process that has actually begun, on the deployment and composition of political forces, even political preferences, sympathy and antipathies, because today we are in Parliament, tomorrow we will not be in Parliament, today someone in power, tomorrow we will be in opposition and vice versa, and the trends that will ensure the civilisation of the Ukrainian people will remain. And I would very much like to see these trends finally become reality. We will support this statement. And, frankly, we don't see any obstacles for the entire Ukrainian Parliament not to confirm the attempt to be in Europe not only geographically but also economically, politically, civilizedly in Europe. We support this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u91	People's Deputy Malesev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u92	Please hand over Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u93	Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u94	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The great colleagues, the acceptance of this statement will be another step towards European integration, and this will be a clear signal to our colleagues from the European Union. I point out that there are three very important points in this statement. First moment. We call on the European Union to demonstrate political will and not only to initial the Association Agreement, but also to sign and do everything in order to ratify it. One second. We ask and this reference goes to Article 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in order to implement the Association Agreement, it began to take effect before it became effective, that is, before it was ratified by all the countries of the European Union. This means that once it is signed, individual parts can be executed immediately. And the third point that we are paying attention to is to ensure that all the documents necessary for the ratification process of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, including the free trade zone, as for the Supreme Council, the European Parliament and all national parliaments, are submitted in sync. As soon as we do so, this signal will be heard in Europe. Thank you for your attention. And the faction of the regions is asking for everyone's support, we're voting. And to the opposition's representatives, I want to remind you that Euro-integration processes are taking place not only at the level of statements, but at the level of concrete action. And today your vote will show whether you're in favor of Euro-integration or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u95	Sergey Shevchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, half an hour ago the meeting of Yanukovich with Putin was concluded. She was complex and low-effectual. Half an hour later, the faction of the Party of Regions went to Europe so boldly that it wants to accept an application for European integration, which is ridiculous. I want to pass on the word to Andrew School. Please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u97	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u98	Dear radio listeners! Dear TV setters! Honorable Predestination! I would like to stress here the calls for opposition were from the authorities. We know the authorities have taken some unprecedented steps towards democracy. They were arrested without trial and, in fact, with a comical investigation, with a comedy court, the leader of the opposition dropped out of jail and demanded opposition. address the opposition: please move towards Euro-integration. I don't know where you're going, but you're moving Ukraine into a failure. That's clear. If you don't believe my words, please let me quote the words of the Czech Ambassador in Ukraine, who said, "The Ukrainian political representation should point out that we are consistently touching the highest political level after the beginning of trials against former government representatives. As long as this situation is not rectified, it is necessary to say honestly to the Ukrainian public that the process of entering into an association agreement, the area of free trade will be suspended." It's a quote. Next. He added that the ministers of foreign affairs of Poland, the Czech Republic, Germany, Britain, and Sweden were in their letter. The process of signing the ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU has been described as blocked because of the unsatisfactory state of democracy in Ukraine. This is evidence of the EU’s concern. And the opposition is concerned about power. It says: Government, Your Honor, you're here. Don't throw your horses away, you don't draw them here, you know, some statements and projects; please, you want the consensus to be in the Supreme Council, you take it as a basis, you include the implementation of the resolutions on the release of Yulia Timoshenko from prison, the release of Lucenko from prison, the cessation of political persecution, the cessation of political killings. Or dare and start shooting right in this room. Shoot here and now, and pray for European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u99	Paul Zebravsky, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, is there today any of the factions of "Our Ukraine" -- the People's Self-Defense or the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, which is against Euro-Integration? I don't think you'll find anyone on this. In fact, it's a sincere desire and understanding of what Euro-integration is. This statement, in my opinion, is played by the Variats. It was very clear and wise to say that not only words were needed but actions were needed. European integration is more than just signing another document, another treaty. This is a lot of reforms in harmonization, in democratisation of Ukrainian society. In the humanization of Ukrainian society, absolutely correct. Without such conditions, signing is the only way to say that we are in Europe right now. Far away! Today, it raises doubts about the sincerity of these statements, and why? Because they turned to both — and others — about what they asked not to publish, not to talk about the timing of the initials. And they said it was still a negotiation process, and we have to agree. As a result, the Ukrainian authorities were urged not to sound a date. Ours jumped out like Gretz from the hemp, to say that, look at how bad Europe is, it doesn't want to take us in. How, though, can we deal with those violations, including the human rights that exist in Ukraine today? Do we deserve to be members of a European democratic family? Whether we have Europe outside, and in Ukraine we do everything we want, according to our citizens. Sorry, it's an Asian when the prince does everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u101	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u102	I am convinced that on the first reading, we are ready to vote with amendments, including the elimination of human rights violations, and we will vote in the second reading. Then it will be your sincerity and your openness, and your honesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, please, Valery Kamchatny, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u104	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that in 2012 Ukraine is the head of the Central European Initiative, an important organization that is one of its tasks in promoting the accession of new members to the European Union. That is why we must be consistent, today we are taking all measures, including parliamentary measures, the Central European Initiative and the support of this statement, which we are considering today, will go in the direction and context of our aspirations for European integration. So on behalf of our group, we offer to support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u105	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a performance, however. There's been a show. Dear colleagues, I'm begging you, there's already been a speech. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal that takes into account the clarifications that the rapporteur has said about the adoption of the decision and the approval of the relevant text of the statement. [[Registration number 10161]] Please vote. With the amendments, I said. What are you yelling at, I don't understand? Stop it. [[17:52:24]] For 267 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of state and municipal property is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10043]] We approved that statement. Just give me one second to get back to work. All right, all right, I'll count. Dear colleagues, the two committees will be co-rapporteurs, the committee suggests that the main consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:53:23]] For 221 Decision taken. The rapporteur is national deputy Bevanko Valerij Fedorovich and co-reporters Grigory Mikolaiovich Kalietnik, as well as Vasil Vasilovich Demšin. And we continue our evening session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, is presented to you by Bill No. 10043. First of all, it should be noted that the existing disengagement mechanism is ineffective, and this must finally be accepted. What is involved in this inaction? The legislation provides for the need for full land inventory to be carried out in each land area, not only public and municipal property, but also private property. But this is true only from a theoretical point of view. More than 8 years have passed since the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Distinguishing of State and Municipal Property, but there is no distinction as such. And according to municipal property on earth today, there is no small exception. In our view, one idea should be the basis for regulating the disengagement process: certain countries outside the control of circumstances must remain stateless forever. Taking into account what has been said, the bill proposes to radically change the approach to this process and to separate directly from the law, which will save several billion budgets. The bill provides a clear, clear and comprehensive list of land owned by both state and municipal authorities. There is one criterion: Who owns buildings and buildings or a legal person who uses land, who owns the land under it. The laws are formulated as direct rules of action, and if adopted, local authorities and local self-government authorities will be able to register ownership of the relevant land areas without any additional regulations, regulations, instructions. In addition, the bill is complex as opposed to the existing law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u107	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u108	It is a comprehensive solution to the use of state and municipal land for the needs of state and territorial communities. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u109	Thank you, sit down, please. Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Of the total number of projects ordered, 114 have been approved by the land administration for a total area of 200,000 hectares. That's 0.7 percent of the total area that's bound to be bound. At the same time, no hectares of land have been officially transferred to municipal property in all these years and so far. Thus, more than a decade’s attempt to separate the land of state and municipal property has failed because of the lack of interest of local government administrations and local authorities. And the absence, almost absolutely, of funding for this kind of work. It should be noted that more than 5 billion are needed to carry out these tasks. Moreover, a valid law provides that the definition of land boundaries in cases where there is no material to install them in kind. Or the existing boundaries do not correspond to the land-cadastral documentation, they are carried out according to the Land Code requirements, that is, through land-use projects, for land-disposal. So the bill's mechanism for delimiting state and municipal property, which is based on a declaration of land that is one-minutely divided by defined criteria, allows for a fundamental simplification of the disengagement process, for delimitation without cost, both from local budgets and from the state budget, and for the avoidance of conflicts of interest between authorities, for the elimination of duplication of land-based organizations and for the development of a project of delimitation in general and at the stage of the formation of a specific land area, for the respective individual documentation with the land structure. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations also sees a number of difficulties in doing so and the need for serious second reading work. Now I want to say that the committee has supported the bill and recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. Please support the decisions of the committee and the drafters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u111	Vice-Chairman of the committee, Victor Sinchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u112	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, National Deputies, the Committee discussed at its meeting a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of state and municipal property. [[March 14, 2012]] [[Registration number 10043]] Thus, the draft law proposes that all lands are owned by the State outside the population except for the land of municipal and private property. Such a bill is contrary to the principle of widespread local self - government, according to which local self - government is to be exercised throughout Ukraine. This means that there are no areas to which the jurisdiction of the territorial communities and the relevant authorities of local self - government is not extended. And the territory of one administrative and territorial unit borders with the territory of another administrative and territorial unit. In terms of simplifying the process of demarcating state and municipal property, it is suggested that they be rejected altogether. Instead of projects, the distinction is to recognize as an integral part of the projects a list of land ownership areas with their cadastral target numbers that go to municipal property. In fact, an uncontrollable route of land distribution is proposed that cannot be implemented if the cadastre does not have formed areas with its cadastral numbers. The issue is the principle of the secondaryity of land ownership in terms of the form of ownership of the buildings on which they are laid down in the draft law. [[Buildings]] The practice of land delimitation projects shows that the value of land, especially in the central areas of large cities, far exceeds the value of the building. [[Buildings]] The creation of a complex with a single form of land ownership and a building does not have sufficient economic justification. The bottom line is:
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u113	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u114	The committee concluded that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be recommended, as a result of its first reading, that the subject should be reinstated from the right of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u115	Yes, please sign up for the discussion. And you and I continued for 15 minutes of the evening session. Yes, Stanislav Arjevitin. Yuri Hanustzak, please, the "BUT is the Fatherland" faction. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u116	Gentlemen, this was the first law, now the second law. They're going in the same direction. That's the last pitch before the election. So we decided to take the last one, the land. Now I'm going to tell you how it's supposed to be and why it can't be adopted. We don't have a system of land control and decision-making. How should it be? The whole country, which is not private, is defined as communal. In this case, they cannot manage the land uncontrollably. Why? Because approval, acceptance of occupation plans, the use of land, that is, in all five types, must be controlled by the state. So the scheme goes to what plan, one has the right to manage, but it can only be governed by the rules established by the state. Another cannot make a decision of an operational nature, but it holds the depository of these lands. Just in this system called mirror reflection, we don't have what's called a property dump. What is being suggested now? It is now proposed that all the land that can be sold be put to a decision, in fact, what is now being done by the regime. We know how corruption is done. They are uncontrollable on behalf of the state, because the control system is not in place. And until it's installed, until the land cadastral is made, this decision can't be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u117	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergey Shevchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u118	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I have the impression that the opposition is horribly awaiting a decision of the Constitutional Court when it is stated that it is possible to run either on party lists or on a Majority. They're about to walk eleven columns, eleven columns, maybe twelve will be there, I don't know. So now they see politics in every law. It's like you're falling asleep with the election and waking up. The country lives, the country does not care about elections, life goes to elections, and after elections. You're going to lose, you're going to lose, you're going to lose, you're going to lose. Now for the bill. The bill proposes to separate the land of state property on the land of the State and the land of municipal property, and the land of municipal property is proposed to identify all lands within villages, villages, cities, except land that are in constant use by public authorities, public enterprises, institutions, organizations, and lands where the property of the state is located. So this bill or the law, if passed, will speed up the process of dividing state and municipal property, that is, it will streamline the procedure. And you're all thinking about the election. Think of the people, think of the country. You don't have to go to the election anyway. I propose a bill to be adopted on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u119	Sergey Shevchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u120	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, but I didn't realize that we accepted the application, in principle, good with your amendments or without your amendments, the text or any changes? Well, you see, for that, there's a procedure of acceptance as a basis, then a right, or maybe we've ruined the good stuff. And now I want to pass the word to Vasil Kravchuk for a speech on the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u121	Please, Vasil Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u122	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." I'd like to see what district the previous speaker will win, his name is Mikhailo. Michael's name is Michael. Which district he wins and how much he gets. Let's see in October. You've done so well to adopt this law, because you don't have the money to put the most basic order in the land of public property. You don't have money for agriculture absolutely, which I don't know how to run a seed campaign right now. The vast majority realized that the Law on the Earth’s Market could not be adopted in a second reading in the way it is. And the main purpose of the law was, in the first reading that they adopted, to rob several million lands of state property. That's why they decided now. began to search for holes through which the adoption of this law could be broken by force through the knee. In short, volunteerism. Solve all your questions for yourself. And this is the land of the State Academy of Sciences, this is the land of the Ministry of Defense. The main issue is the land ownership of dead owners who do not have heirs. There is no order in the State Land Cadastre. The adoption of this law will completely ignore the opinion of the community and the authorities of local self - government. The BUT faction – Fatherland – will definitely not vote in favour of this law, and I urge colleagues from the Party of Regions not to commit another crime, because the adoption of this law is another step towards a derelict of land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Again. Please, Caplienne, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u124	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, well, the 10042 bill that we voted on before this, and 10043, well, they're both disturbing. And, in principle, we support those things or those statements that came out of the rostrum. Question 10043 in most of this is the question of the owner and the system of regulations as to the land and buildings on which it is located, and this issue is decided solely by this law. We believe that it is not possible to support this bill definitively in general. Whether it can be taken apart in such a way that it becomes constitutional for the second reading is not clear either. The MP's Reform for the Future has made a decision: we will only support this bill in free voting, and as we will determine, it will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-20-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The Agrarian Policy Committee proposes to take it as a basis, and the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government has taken a negative decision on this bill, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority also believes that the bill needs to be finalized. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the first proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property. [[Registration number 10043]] [[18:09:22]] For 227 Decision taken. I, my dear fellows, am asking questions. The factions, please. Region Party – 189, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 5, non-factional – 11. As for the question of Sergey Shevchuk, how did the draft ruling feel about the vote? As proposed by the rapporteur, there is a clarification of the deletion of one word and the commission of the Central Electoral Commission, that is, as the main reporter suggested. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot begin to consider the following question right now, since we have four minutes left. Therefore, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work from 10 a.m. to Wednesday, March 21st.
