ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:08]] Cards were registered in the 412 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear National Deputies! It's now under review -- the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2013. Such a procedure is proposed. For the report, up to 10 minutes. To answer the question, in five minutes. For the report, 5 and 3, respectively. It's 15 minutes for the faction. And the national MPs' speech is 15 minutes. Is there a denial? None. Then we do what the Rules require in this regard. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Finance, Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Baranov Valerij Aleksijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Government has prepared, in accordance with the requirements of the Budget Code, and has submitted to the Supreme Council a draft guidelines for budgetary policy for 2013. The main directions of budgetary policy are a clear and concise document that does not duplicate other regulatory system documents, such as the Budget Code, the National Action Plan, the medium-term forecast, and is a logical one-year extension. All the positions of the Main Directions of Budget Policy for the following year are in line with the requirements of article 33 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. The implementation of budgetary policy in 2013 will aim at ensuring the sustainable development of the national economy, raising living standards and the welfare of citizens, promoting a balanced development of the competitive economy. Key parameters of the main budget policy tasks for the following year are: reducing the government budget deficit to between 0.8 per cent and 1 per cent of GDP; in 2012 this figure was approved at 1.7 per cent of gross domestic product. With a view to reducing the debt burden in 2013, the main source of fiscal deficit coverage is the privatization of state property. Also, the basic position of budgetary policy is that only the state budget is defective. Local budgets are defined and, according to the Budget Code, we form on a deficient basis. The next lighthouse we propose for consideration is the definition of the marginal amount of government debt that is proposed to set and limit not more than 25 per cent of gross domestic product against counted in 2012 27.7. So we're gradually trying to reduce the debt burden on the economy. And so, taking these two basic parameters into account in terms of financial stability, we are clearly pursuing the positions set out in the Ukrainian Economic Reform Programme, approved by the President of Ukraine, concerning the stabilisation of deficits and government debt. Under this programme, the government sector deficit in 2013 is expected to be limited to no more than 2 per cent of GDP. The next indicator, which also clearly describes the government's intentions in fiscal policy, is the provision of a lighthouse for a share of the gross domestic product distribution through Ukraine's consolidated budget. And we define it, and we define it, and we suggest that we define it at a level not higher than in 2012, which is 30.5 percent, which will help reduce the fiscal burden on the economy. It is also fundamental in this context that the government, in the main areas of budgetary policy, is clearly defined that the tax base in 2003, which will be included in the budget, will be made up of purely valid legislation at the time of submission of the draft State Budget Act. The next indicator that affects financial stability in Ukraine is the fixation in the main directions of the amount of guarantees planned to invest in the economy, not more than 1 percent of GDP. That's about 17 billion dollars. Which will allow you to implement priority investment programs. In the social sphere, budgetary policy in 2013 will be geared towards further implementation of the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine. Including the continuation of the State’s commitment to progressively compensate citizens for the loss of money savings. But the cost-of-travel loan mechanism works to provide affordable housing for citizens who need to improve living conditions. Moreover, in 2013, social protection for underprivileged populations and social services for elderly people, disabled persons, families with children and orphans, low-income families, and improvements in the allocation and indexation of pensions, the creation of a level playing field for the indexation of pensions, regardless of the basis for their assignment. This is foreseen, and this is also one of the basic budget provisions of the following year, an increase in living minimum for the following year will be made on the basis of updated food, non-food and services sets for the main social and demographic groups, based on prices for goods and services in January 2012. This will make it possible to increase the amount of social assistance and pensions. The following indicator is planned to increase the minimum wage and salary of the first tariff level of the Single Tariff Network with the aim of gradually approaching its size to the minimum wage level. It is also planned to increase with the rise in basic social standards of student scholarships. Regional development will also continue to be supported in 2013 by increasing the drinking weight of local budgets in the consolidated budget, taking into account the rise in basic social standards. In 2012, this figure was nearly 41 percent. The next regional position is to increase investment, including the creation of a State Regional Development Fund of at least 1 per cent of the projected revenue of the general budget of the State Budget project. According to previous estimates, this amount will amount to more than 3 billion dollars. State policy in 2013 will focus on further deregulation, reduction of fiscal burden and implementation of budget reforms. It should be noted that the budgetary guidelines for budgetary policy for 2013 do not provide for specific figures for the allocation of resources by major sectors or priorities, since, in accordance with the Budget Code, such allocation takes place under regulated budgeting procedures at the Ministry level and is already set out in the draft State Budget Act for the following year, which, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, is to be submitted to Parliament by September 15, which is ahead of the planned year. Thus, the document submitted for consideration is the basis for all the main contributors to the public budget's requests for this document. The draft guidelines for budgetary policy for the following year were worked on during working meetings and were discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues. And in the light of the discussion, a decision was made at the committee meeting. This is a decision, I've already told you that it's worked both with the Ministry of Finance, and all the additions that are included in the draft decision are supported by the government. And given the foregoing, we believe that after the discussion, the government will support a draft decree registered under number 10363-d, which is the draft regulation for which we propose to vote in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Yes, please state the names of the national MPs. Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u4	Dear Anatoly Ivanovich! Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. There are a lot of questions to your report and direction, but I'm just going to ask. The section on the relationship between the State budget and the local budgets indicates the position of further health - care reforms and beyond the text. I think you can give me an answer, if it's not appropriate to move it, that's the position, in the core tasks of budgetary policy. Yes, if it remains there, the State is essentially transferring responsibility for short - term reforms in the medical field to self - government and local budgets. And what I'm going to tell you is that today there's an extreme disaster and today they don't even write out the benefits and free recipes for the disabled of the Great Homeland War and the categories that there are. Today, the transfer of FAPs to the district budget has led to the fact that no copies are financed even by medicines.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u5	Thank you for asking. You know that the Supreme Council passed a law last year on piloting projects to reform the medical sector, and it is in the pilot regions that there is a test of new methods and approaches to reforming this sector. Of course, as in every new product and direction, reform is usually certain during this pilot project, some problems arise. I think that's exactly what the possibility of further improvement is meant on the basis of an analysis of the implementation of these reforms. Because reforms are being implemented at the basic level of medicine, this is the position recorded in the section "The State and Local Budget Relations". So I think when we develop the budget, we'll take your proposals into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u6	Andrey Parubius, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u7	I ask that you pass Paul to Zebrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u8	Paul Zebravsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u9	U.S. Sobor platform. Paul Zebravsky. Vladimir Mikhailovich, first question to you. Neither the budget committee nor the "Basic Directions of Budget Policy" have, unfortunately, come to report to the minister of finance. It's a tradition that I don't understand because it's one of the key things that, at least, the finance minister should report. I just want to understand why he didn't come. But to Anatoly Mikhailovich. Anatolia Ivanovich has several questions. First. Anatoly Ivanovich, the dollar you're planning for the next financial year. One. Are there "Basic Directions" today? It's an agro-industrial complex. And how are you going to support yourself in this big component of the Ukrainian economy? And the third question. How big is the first level of the single tariff network in terms of subsistence?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u10	Thank you for asking. Dear Paul Ivanovich! There are budgetary policies in the main directions. Because the directions, these are not clear numbers, because the clear numbers are defined in the budget balance and will be given together with the September 15 justifications. And budget policy's "directions" state that next year there is a gradual increase in the flexibility of the exchange rate of the bracelet as Ukraine's financial system recovers -- it's a direction, you know, it's a policy. It's called "Basic Directions of Budget Policy." So that's the policy we're predicting in this direction. And the specific figures will be given along with the explanatory note on September 15. What is involved in supporting the agribusiness complex? Like other areas of the real economy, they are being implemented according to the requirements of current legislation. There is tax legislation where fiscal policy rules are defined. And for the next year, we predict that we continue that tradition by.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u11	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u12	These are our new work on changing the system and supporting the agri-industrial complex through the State Budget. In particular, it is a budget support for the construction of new complexes, an animal program that deals with the expansion of cattle and the development of support methods through the Ukrainian Agrarian Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u13	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Valery Baranov, please head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. And to me was the question of Paul Ivanovich of Zebrowsky. I have to say that the Cabinet of Ministers, signed by Azarov, has filed a statement that the report will be made by the First Deputy Minister of Finance of Merkovsky Anatoly. I asked myself why, I was told that the minister was on his way and received a letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, the proposed document as a whole takes into account the main directions of budgetary policy in the context of the exit of the economy from the crisis, according to the main priority of social orientation. Clearly, in such circumstances all baking problems cannot be taken into account. About 100 proposals came to our committee, seven committees and about 20 deputies made such proposals. They're worked by the committee together with the Ministry of Finance and some of them are included in the working paper you have. In particular, they include: a progressive increase in the level of remuneration in the budgetary sphere, including government and military officials; the introduction of the principle of financial autonomy of higher education institutions by legislative regulation of the transition from the maintenance of such facilities to the budgetary costs of exclusive education services on the basis of public procurement and the forecasting of the needs of the labour market; the formation of a public procurement order for the preparation of professionals, the scientific and pedagogical and labour resources on the basis of a targeted approach and the forecasting of labour market requirements; the concentration of State support for the development of regions in the State Regional Development Fund; this is money; other expansion of the tax base of the sales tax on the non-performing state, the strengthening of the financial base of local budgets; and the implementation of measures for optimizing the supervisory functions of public authorities with regard to the short-term benefits of the mining industry; and the strengthening of the financial base of the local budget; and the improvement of tax system of tax on the prudential services of the prudential reforms of the financial services of the public sector; and the financial services from the financial services of the financial sector. It should be noted that many of the current budgetary problems, especially the funding of the local budgets that have been accumulated over the years, cannot be addressed in the context of the consideration of this issue, as they need systemic solutions and additional financial resources. First of all, these are those that need an immediate solution: to include in the local budget development part of the corporate income tax; to include in the income of the second basket of district budgets fees for licences and payments for state registration, excluding such payments from the income of the first basket of these budgets; and to account for inter-budgetary transfers for the budgets of cities of regional importance, expenditure on extra-school education. Exclusion of expenditure on delegated authority from local budget expenditure on own income. Allowing local authorities to determine their own land tax rates. Legal arrangements for auctions from sales and leases of land of public utility property, non-agriculture or rights to them. The problem of local financial provision by local authorities of delegated powers: education, health care, culture, social security, physical education, administrations, and others. Unfortunately, in 20 years of independence, the state has not been able to solve all these problems. Therefore, these problems were the main issues in our budget committee’s discussion of the proposed decision. The Committee on Budget Affairs decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Law on Main Directions of Budget Policy for 2013 on a co-worked recommendation committee. Furthermore, in view of the adoption on 17 May of the Presidential Bill No. 9665, which annuls the development of the State Programme for Social and Economic Development, it is necessary to delete the words "and the State Economic and Social Development Programme 2013" in the main directions of the section "Implementation of Priority State Objective Programmes". Therefore, I would like to support the decision of the Committee on Budget Affairs to take account of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question for the committee head? Please sign up. Vitaly Zuravsky, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u16	Please tell me, has the view of the humanitarian sphere changed: education, science, culture -- which is always financed by the rest of the principle?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u17	In my presentation, I gave examples of how structural changes are taking place today. They are therefore listed as priorities in our proposed document.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u18	People's MP Landik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u19	We always say that our country is an animal and we feed our neighbors. And we're also saying that we have a lot of coal, and all the power plants are going to go from gas to gas. Which sectors of the economy will find the greatest support in the 2013 budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u20	We have several targeted government programmes, you know, the Presidential priorities are also set, ten main areas. They remain for us as a goal, let's say, it doesn't change. But one of the main things I'm going to call this is the APC support programme, which, by the way, has produced some very interesting results. I want to call them because we don't know about them. Thanks to the public programme called "Supporting the Construction of Animal Farms and Support for Gardening", we have the following result: Ukraine has cut its imports of chicken by 100 per cent this year; Ukraine has cut its imports of pork by 50 per cent; Ukraine has cut its imports of apples and pears by 50 per cent this year. And that seems to me as a result of the fact that this programme has been working for more than a year and has produced such a positive result.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u21	Eugene Volintz, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u22	Please pass the word to Comrade Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u23	Vladimir Leschenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u24	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Valery Alexiovich! You said the committee came up with hundreds of different proposals, some of them supported. I corrected nine of them, and none of them were supported. In particular, I'm interested in this question: it's written in a government project and you're left with a draft committee that's focused on a whole list of ways of optimizing the social protection of the population. You know, we have the optimisation of education -- that's the destruction of schools, that's the optimization of medicine -- that's the closure of district hospitals. What do you mean by optimizing the social protection of the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u25	Thank you. I want to say that optimizing the education system does not only mean closing schools, but the social system, optimizing our social services, and much is said today, is the following. Do you know that Ukraine is one of the few countries in which each other is practically a beneficiary? It is imperative that all benefits be in stock, especially those of the departments, with a view to moving to targeted assistance, when money is allocated to, not to utilities, for example, services, but to every citizen directly to his or her pension, or to wages. This will increase such assistance and remove or remove from the source of the State budget those who do not have any rights but are today. That is why it is the right way. These priorities are set in both the President's programme and today's document.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u26	Yes, thank you. Valerius Alexiyovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions, the factions. Yes, please, Vaszczuk, Kirilczuk, Chechetov, Papuya, Matviev. Now, please sign up for the national MPs. Yes, name, please leave. Do you all see? Then determine who will speak. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, faction of the People's Party. Eugene Kirilchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u27	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party, Volin. Dear colleagues, we have been talking in Parliament for many years about improving the budgetary process in our country. That it should be directed to the social protection of people, to the support of those sectors that determine the future of the country's economic development. However, we do very little. And in particular, every one of you who lives or works in rural areas feels one injustice. Today, Ukraine does not split east, west, south, north, no. Ukraine divides into two categories of people -- those who live in the city and those who survive in the village. Those who live in the city do not think about the road or where to heal, nor about school for the child, nor about culture. They're thinking about how to make money. And that's good. So be it, let them have a good time! How does the Ukrainian village live today? It cannot be said that the government does not pay any attention. But especially in recent years, there have been many inadequacies in social development. To this day, roads to many villages in rural areas have remained on course. There are no actual roads. The government promised that after the end of the Euro, what was to be put on the road would be directed more to rural areas. The same applies to the support of a rural school, a rural medical center, and so forth. And there's more. I'd really like to see the cost of supporting the agrarian sector in the planning of the new budget, in fact, in the area budgets. And then they're definitely going to get to whoever's making the product. In Kiev, it divides into large power companies. The village will divide the area into a family farm, a head of cattle, a hectare of farmed land, and a product sold. Dear colleagues! Let's just make sure that all of those, and all those who feed the country today, who grow and store the genetic foundation and the nations, and everything else and the animal and plant world, are.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u28	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u29	were respected and supported. No nation will be rich where.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u30	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please give your speech. Next Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, I'll start with the good political news, then the socio-economic aspect of this document will be highlighted. I have the impression that the government knows something. The government knows exactly what the electoral campaign will do, since it takes away Parliament’s authority to form a budget. Obviously, the government knows that it is losing today's power of election, and so that Parliament does not influence the budget, it takes the budget completely to itself, to the President's Administration, to the government. Because throughout the history of Parliament, there has never been such a budget that it is shaped according to a document written by the President's Administration. And the classics couldn't even name the government what this document is properly called -- the President's message, as the Constitution provides. At least read the Constitution, as this document is called. We are told that the budget will be written according to the President's messages and two documents: a socio-economic development programme for the following year that no one has seen, and also on the basis of one document that has not yet been developed in the government. That is, we are offered virtual budget figures on the basis of unconstitutional documents, to which there is no relation by Parliament. Now to socio-economic things. We insisted here in the session room that the 2012 budget be reviewed and that subsidies be added to local self-government, because we have authority working in the 2012 budget process in what way? Parents pay to repair schools, they hold on to kindergartens, and children’s kindergartens. The governors say that it is necessary to give money to businessmen to get hospitals to work. So we have people providing a completely budgetary process. After we pressed and added the subsidy, I inform you, all this is not enough for local budgets to support education, health care, and cultural systems. What's waiting for us behind this document next year. We would have to hear clearly what the official exchange rate of the bracelet would be like, as Paul Zebrowsky asked. Read the papers that will be the currency of the bracelet. It will be flexible in terms of the world’s currency. I have a question: who's going to push this bracelet? Where to go: to 10, to 11, to 12? You didn't give us any indicator of budget formation. I have a question. Who made it up that by August 1 you would have developed new legislative mechanisms to finance local self-government? You don't know that the session's up until July 6th? Maybe you'll still be in the Cabinet of Ministers accepting the session when there's no session? Therefore, the position is clear – a more unprofessional, unprepared, anti-national document we did not see as an opposition. We, as the opposition, will reject the bill. Once again, we're only happy that the government knows that it's losing the election, then we'll write a normal document and we'll accept the 2013 normal budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u32	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be by Paul Zebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u33	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A small political trailer for the forecast of future elections in Odessa: “Do not wait. Never." We won the elections in 2005, 2006. We won early 2007s. We won the president's. We won the local government. We're gonna win these, yeah, there's no problem. But we're looking at more -- life choices don't stop. Again, let's push back from the slow 2009 down of 15 per cent of GDP, the worst figure in the world. Of 15 per cent of the budget deficit, almost the country was on the verge of bankruptcy and if the new power of the President had failed to reach the falling country with the economy, Ukraine probably would not have been. Now watch this year. There were four, I would say, well, negative factors that had an impact on the filling of the budget, of course, on the capacity to obtain financial resources, which could also be used for economic development, for social development. First. A negative factor is the world crisis. That's a negative factor. The second is that we didn't take IMF credit, so we didn't get any additional resources. The third is a huge price for gas, I'd say a funeral price for gas, for our industry. Well, of course, a significant resource has gone to Euro. In all of this, this stock of economic strength, with all these negative factors, enabled 3-4 per cent growth this year, 8 bracelets per dollar of our currency, 2 and a half per cent of our deficit, better than the European standard of 3 per cent, and 5 per cent of our inflation will be this year. I'm interested in these, I'd say, "experts," who were yelling, "Big inflation is bad." And now, when they see what's coming down, the budget is being implemented, it's being implemented with inflation somewhere between 4 and 5 percent, it seems like we should give a round of applause to the Ministry of Finance, they say, "That's bad, that's small inflation." But what kind of marrasmatic does it have to be to say that the little inflation that's in the country today is bad? They still call themselves experts. So next year, when we're, well, crisis, it's going to have a negative impact. And next year, we hope that we, the IMF loan, will receive an additional resource. We're going to make a deal with Russia -- there's not going to be this funeral price for gas, it's an additional resource. The euro, which has attracted resources today, but has been converted into infrastructure facilities, will not have to be financed, there is a huge resource that will enable the priority development of the economy, social standards, and the implementation of the President's social initiatives. Therefore, the budget resolution is addressed on the day tomorrow of our country, and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u34	Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Valentin Matthews will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u35	Paul Žebrovsky, Ukrainian platform "The Council". It's as if a person was making an ad campaign somewhere in Donetsk or Lugansk, not in the Ukrainian Parliament, who can read, they know all these things, and they understand that that's what's behind it. In fact, the basics of budgetary policy for the following year were prepared with a grasp and felt unprofessional. Not only did the minister of finance not come, he has nothing to report. Unfortunately, it was not the Ministry of Finance that prepared these basic directions. What is written is the written economic isolation of Ukraine. What is 1 percent of the budget deficit? The government or the President's Administration clearly realizes that for the next year, no IMF loans or loans will be received from Russian banks. That's why they're actually providing minimum resources for today to, I'd call it, they'd probably call it, the survival budget. And after that, the isolation is gone. Even the scientific and expert office notes that there are no programmes that will direct financial resources to the basics of fiscal policy. It's actually a government that supports all government initiatives. Let's see if today's resource is directed at the game of the economy of Ukraine. No, there is no program supported by a major manufacturer. Today there was talk of the APC. No APC support. And actually today, I'm sorry, but the support of large collections of pigs, chickens and vegetables, there's nothing to support a simple farmer who lives and survives at the expense of the land. I'm sorry, but today this budget is aimed at a large capital, not a small and medium-sized farmer who actually feeds Ukraine. Are there any local budgets today? No, it's not. It's all fixed after this year, this year for funding. And you're all going with city and village campaigning, and you see that the financial resources are up to 10 months. Schools, hospitals, and so forth have nothing to finance after October. And that's not exactly what fiscal policy is all about. I'm pretty sure it's "almost literate," "sort of eyes," is actually just to carry out the mission, and not any money managers who have defined the key directions. I'm sure he can't be supported. And certainly after the election, we have to form a real majority that will work for the development of Ukraine, not for the servicing of the oligarchy capital near the top of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u36	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u37	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Company's faction has examined in detail the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2013 and considers that the main disadvantages of the bill are: First, the lack of positive social orientation, as confirmed by the following: the setting of the minimum wage and minimum wage is only planned at the level of the reduced wage. The consumer price index 5.9 per cent, and experts predict an increase in consumer prices in 2013 by 8 per cent; the continuation of the shameful practice of applying the concept of "food minimum level"; the attempt to introduce the next currencyization of the benefits and the next-line establishment of "economically sound" standards of consumption of services, which have already been set up and caused numerous complaints. [[in quotes]] It's different. This is not the reality of macroeconomic indicators that do not take into account the following external and internal risks, the possible significant increase in natural gas tariffs for the population; the deterioration of external economic conditions; the further decline in prices in world commodity markets; and then the reduction of budget revenues; the increase in devaluation trends in the currency market; the increase in the debt crisis in the euro area, which will have a central impact on the economy of Ukraine; and the strengthening of the military conflict in the Middle East, which will affect the price of oil and the price of natural gas. Thirdly, there is no information on the official exchange rate rate of bracelets per year and at the end of the year. Fourthly, the bill does not even mention a list of priority national targets and, clearly, does not provide information on the implementation of the identified programmes in contravention of the Ukrainian Budget Code. As a result, the Communist Party faction will not support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u38	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u39	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. In recent years, we have witnessed the usurpation of budgetary processes by the Presidential Administration and the Cabinet of Ministers. As of last year, when a document that we've always considered came here, it's the Budget Code, and we've noticed that in the second reading, the Supreme Council should see what the Cabinet of Ministers will give as absolute truth, and no amendments can be made there, regardless of what might really be, this document, for example, a telephone guide and everything. Look, this is your budget and take it or don't take it, your business. Well, it went on for the week when a unique document was approved here in the Supreme Council, which actually deprived the Supreme Council of the development of not only the main directions of budgetary policy, but in general the intervention in the budgetary process. All of this will be formed in letters, annual messages to Parliament and the people of Ukraine. I want to point out that today we are looking at a document that is unique in its essence. I've got this document in my hands on eight pages of the Supreme Council's scientific and scientific expertise. It did not leave a stone on the stone on what is written here, it marks dozens of violations of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. And I'd like to pay attention to one of the speakers from the Party of Regions who proved that they were going to go somewhere, and they're going to win, and so on. Well, we've been playing to the point where in the regions where this party is run, the total collapse, the largest AIDS, the most tuberculosis, the worst people live, the lowest standard of living. Today this is a policy imposed on the whole country. So I would like to draw this reporter's attention to having him at home in his family to what Mrs. Chechotcheva, Goodzinsky, Lavrinczuk, and Parhomenko wrote, is the Chief Executive, under the signature of Bordinuk, this document. What this reporter said, you just can't leave a word in common, there are two thoughts. Now, in the family, you're going to realize that this is not a document, and this is a really worthless bunch of papers that we're given, that don't mean anything, and you can't talk about any budget there. I would also like to pay attention to Kiev’s problems. Today, eight billion dollars have been taken from Kiev, and today the city is suffering, and there is no normal road. What Euro are you talking about? On the knees of the bayous, especially on the edges. Today, in Kiev, 140 out of 240 bottles of drinking water are closed and no one is going to open them. Today, in fact, the education system is supported by parental contributions. Now, you've done your bidding, excuse me, tell me you've won all over the place. And today, the authorities in Kiev are completely yours, you have imposed it on Kiev without an election, you support it, and you want to continue it. Come on, people will say their word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u40	Andrew Schlell is transferring the right to speak to Antonini Boluri, please. Next up is Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u41	Antonina Boloura, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. The 2013 budget policy outline is beautiful and attractive, and now we've heard it. It is not clear, though, which means that such an option will be achieved, as prescribed in the main directions. And the corresponding documents do not answer that question. Of the 24 main budget policy items identified by the project, 15 are designed to solve social problems -- excellent. But it takes money not just to be declarations, as has been the case over the last two years. It is clear to all that the state's prosperity depends on the development of the economy and the importance of its support, and these fundamental factors are completely lacking in the budget policy project. I put forward proposals for directions, taking into account the budget policy of the political power of the Yulia Timoshenko Block when it was both in power and opposition. In general, this is: comprehensive support for domestic producers; reduction of tax burden on operators by reducing the total number of taxes and assemblies; establishment of tax justice for different types of enterprises; provision of tax credits for research and investment; introduction of tax holidays for small and medium-sized enterprises; improvement of fiscal funding for the scientific innovation sector and improvement of the competitiveness of the scientific research and development sector; establishment of a partnership between the State and the private sector in innovation and scientific research spheres; full and transparent disclosure of information on state finances; restoration of the technical base of national industry and agriculture; strengthening of public support to increase demand for agriculture. The relationship between the state budget and the local budgets remains very complex. Unfortunately, the decentralization of the income of budgets of different levels remains. Increasing the financial independence of local budgets is essential. These proposals are not taken into account. So there's nothing to expect from anything positive. We are criticizing the actual implementation of the 2011 budget, the 2012 budget, and I think that will be the same in 2013, if the main directions of budgetary policy are to work like this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u42	Thank you, too. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The next will be Vasil Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u43	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. About the IMF loans. Anyone who says that Ukraine has not said anything in recent years, or in recent years no new IMF loans, and why? Because the main requirement of the International Monetary Fund today is what? What is a stumbling block? In order to increase immediately the price of gas for Ukrainian citizens, the price of gas should be increased for consumers, and community services should be increased for the population. Now, honestly, the government -- it doesn't do that, it doesn't do that, it doesn't do credit. But I remember well, dear colleagues, 2008 when one of the newly introduced breadwinners who was sitting here personally brought to the International Monetary Fund a memorandum from Ukraine, a memorandum that had not been published for several months and only the American, I'm sorry, the IMF gave this text. And you know what was in this memo? Three things of all: Ukraine assumed the obligation to freeze wages; the second, to freeze pensions; and the third, to increase municipal payments. Then say it. Why don't you say so? Today, they propose a 30 - percent increase in wages in every bill, 130 percent and so on. "I don't believe" says Stanislavsky, "I don't believe." And I don't believe it's possible to call all this one word for which "The Panas grandfather" was expelled from the Good Night program, which he accidentally said on the air, this is the word, these things, memorandums and proposals to raise by 30 percent. Now, specifically, what about these basic directions? You know, your honorary colleagues, they can all say that all these budget work is problematic, they are, and they will be, problematic, even in countries that are much richer than Ukraine. But with two trillion euros of government debt today, such as in Italy. I think it should be welcomed that 39 percent of Ukraine’s government debt is reduced to 36 percent. I think it's a plus for any person who thinks head. But what do I think I need to pay attention to? We need to use real tools that can be in the 2013 budget. I mean, first of all, the Regional Development Fund. And it seems to me that all colleagues, regardless of their political affiliation, would have to do whatever it takes for local authorities to learn how to write, learn how to prepare projects -- it's very important. Because not only is money important, but it's also important to use this money, but it takes work, not advertising and propaganda, as it does everyone else, and it's not just agitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u44	Basil Kiselov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up will be Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, as part of the ruling under consideration, I will also talk about the Ukrainian village. Singed in songs, he sheds blood and tears generously. A village with 34 percent of the population of Ukraine. And unfortunately, in years of independence, hundreds of locations have disappeared from the map of Ukraine. And the situation will change, according to my colleague Vastuk, the situation will change only when conditions of life and work in the village are the same, even though they are the same as in the city. Because the village has always been a donor of the state, the potential of the Ukrainian land is only used in half. I heard what the deputy minister said, and the committee head. But according to experts, Ukrainian land can produce 100 million tons of grain today and produce only 50, half. Dear colleagues, I've already mentioned that one bracelet produced in the APC gives seven bracelets in other industries of the state industry. In processing, in transport, in trade. And it's also millions of jobs. And if we put 10 billion dollars in grains of grain production because of the decrease in fuel prices, electricity, water, mineral fertilizers and technology, that would add hundreds of millions of tons of grain to it, that would add millions of tons of grain. These are hundreds of thousands of tons of meat, milk, and millions of tons of eggs. That's why the second time, dear colleagues, from this rostrum I'd like to ask you to support us to announce 2013 in Ukraine the year of the development of the agri-industrial complex. Then, dear colleagues, there will be both roads and social spheres. There will be production. And people in the village will feel human, not slaves. As far as the decision is concerned. I just want to say one line. I remember very well when in 2009-2010 we received nothing from the opposition at all. And when we arrived, it was very difficult to start. Because there wasn't even a base to start with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u46	Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u47	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! According to the 2011 Budget Implementation Report of the Cabinet of Ministers last week, 56 percent of all subsidies and capital expenditures were directed to 3 areas in Ukraine: Donetsk, Lugansk, and Kiev. This amount of subsidies and capital expenditure in the Donetsk area is more than 100 times as high as in the Ternopil region and more than 200 times as high as in the Zakarpatsk region. 1 This is certainly not in line with the principle of justice and impartiality in the distribution of expenditure, which clearly and unequivocally requires the Budget Code. Obviously, all of this needs to be changed. But if we look at the basics, we're going to study these basic fiscal policies that the government has given us, absolutely not a word about. It is clear that expenditure in 2012 and 2013 will be even greater in these areas. Next. As Deputy Prime Minister Sergey Tihypco was announced at the end of last year, the government is preparing a fundamental proposal to change the taxation of offshore operations. But it has been almost six months, but no offer from the government to the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been made at this time. Do you think there are these proposals for changing off-shore taxation in tax policy changes proposed by the government? Absolutely correct: there is no offer. Next. The whole country was shocked by the arrest of the head of the Employment Center. As you know, seven and a half million dollars were found in his search. What is absolutely clear and clear evidence of the complete breakdown of the social system and of the need to reform budgetary approaches immediately. Do you think there are any suggestions? And it's been six months, and no offer from the government has been made. Do you think there are any proposals in these institutions of fiscal policy for the next year in this document? Absolutely not. Based on the above, as a minimum, three points at a time, and there are still a lot more, I propose that I direct these basic fiscal policies to the development of the government for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u48	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Anatoly Ivanovich, do you have anything to say in the closing statement?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u49	I would like to say one thing that we support is a draft ruling that is prepared by the Committee on Budgets, which is with the "d" badge, and given what Valery Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Budgets, said in his report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, we can make decisions with you in this way. To endorse the main directions of budgetary policy for 2013 — that is, what the committee has offered us. If not, no. Then we'll just get to know them, and then the field of activity in the Cabinet of Ministers will be extremely wide, nothing narrow. There's a lot of problems, though. There are many problems that my distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies have discussed in their speeches. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I am voting on the first proposal for a Supreme Council decision on the main directions of budgetary policy for 2013. [[registration number 10363-d]] Please vote. [[17:00:35]] For 240 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 190, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 10. A draft Law amending the Code of Nadra is being announced for consideration. [[on special permits for the use of nadrama]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[17:01:21]] For 212 Decision taken. Reporters are Ukrainian national deputies: Vladimir Kaplanko, Valérie Harlim. The Coroner is the head of Anatoly Seminoga's committee. Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u51	Glasunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u52	Glazonov's gonna be a reporter from the committee, right? It's a deal. Please, Vladimir Kaplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u53	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Since 1994, the Nadra Codex has been in operation in Ukraine. However, despite the changes made, Ukraine has never been able to absorb serious costs in the mining of useful fossils, first of all, in the production of energy. The purpose of the proposed bill, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Ribakov, Capliennek, Kamchatny, is to ensure that investment conditions are favourable for the production of beneficial fossils. [[Registration number 9539]] Today, the conditions for investing in geological and physical research and mining in Ukraine are not attractive, because Ukrainian legislation, particularly the code that is currently in force today, does not create a legal mechanism that would allow seed companies to obtain a special permit without a new tender procedure. In practice, this means that an investor, after carrying out an investigative drilling, must be involved in a tender for industrial development without any advantage from, among other participants who until then had no relation. This leads to the uncertainty of investors as to their participation in the industrial development of their exploration sites. Around the world, an investor takes advantage of the area with the right of exploration and industrial production, and only if he wants to do so can a tender be announced in this area. We make the following changes to the Codex on Nadra. In the case of the industrial discovery of the fossil stock, the owner of a special permit for geological research, including for industrial breeding, is granted special permission to extract beneficial fossils, provided that additional procedures for the inclusion of the specified crop are in place to be passed on to the State Fund for the Crops of Useful Fodders. While we were looking at this bill on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u54	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u55	With regard to additional procedures, it is certainly about the specific qualities of beneficial fossils, such as the availability of toxicities or radioactivity that need to be overcome in order to pass them on to the register. I very much ask you, fellow honourable Members, to support this bill, because it will make additional investments in the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u56	Yes, thank you, too. Harlim Valeriy Mikhailovich, please. Is it? There's no reporter. Please, then, Glazonov from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u57	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster has considered bills to amend the Ukrainian Code of Nadra, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Ribakov, Caplienne and Kamchatny, and to amend some of the Ukrainian laws on the use of nagrass, submitted by National Deputy Harlim. [[on special permits for the use of nadrama]] [[Registration number 9539]] [[Registration number 9539-1]] As far as Bill 9539 is concerned. It aims to increase investment in beneficial mining through legislative consolidation of the process of obtaining special permits for the further exploration of beneficial fossils by the investor without auction. Today, the procedure is being implemented through the adoption of appropriate decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made on norm-design technology. As far as Bill 9539-1 is concerned. It provides for the implementation of an agreement on the conditions for the use of the nadrama on technical, technological, organizational, financial, and other obligations, as well as the possibility of alienating the right to use another person’s nadrama. I would like to point out that in general the bill has a number of shortcomings, including disagreements with articles 13 and 140 of the Ukrainian Constitution, a series of articles of the Ukrainian Nadra Code, the Ukrainian Land Rental Act. Its acceptance in the proposed edition will lead to a number of inconsistencies and legal colleges and will not ensure the achievement of the goal set by the authors. The committee therefore proposes to adopt Bill 9539 as a basis for further consideration and to reject 9539-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u58	Yes, dear colleagues, is there a need to make a statement on this matter? Please sign up. Just not very active. Please, Zuravsky, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u59	I am from that region in Zitomirsk, where there are careers, where there are mines that are now flooded and are not developed because of these technical obstacles, as discussed in this bill. It's a good bill, and it makes it possible to make serious investments in the development of beneficial fossils. And these are going to be extra revenue according to the State Budget. Our faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u60	Please, you're a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen! I see both bills as sufficiently lobbying, especially the first. Look, it would be a good idea. So once you're in a scouting contest, then you're automatically entitled to a genealogy. But what is the problem? The problem is that only when I'm divorced, then it's already determined how much and what's essentially the profit. And here's the question is that those who start exploring get carte blanche, so there's no competition after that. The second bill has a very interesting norm, between 5 and 20 percent of what it is. It's a starting point, which is to make an auction for development. By the way, this position is pretty good. I mean, what's this all about? What if you take even one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u62	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u63	So this rule needs to be fixed. Otherwise, it's a totally corrupt law, and you can't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u64	Thank you. Asshole, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u65	Bill 9539 is not corrupt. This is a bill that helps to increase the mining of its own fossils and increase the state's economic independence. That's why we think this bill needs to be supported. The introduction of this mechanism will contribute to the increase in the production of beneficial fossils, as well as to the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to European Community standards. The adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Nadra Code will significantly increase the interest of private business in attracting investments and, as a result, increase mining production and guarantee investors' rights to participate in the industrial development of their exploration sites. So I propose a bill of 3,599 to support, rather than lobbyist, the one that the state needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u66	Gregory Smythech, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. One literally replica. If someone was working with you, and most of you are working, fortunately, either working or having experience in the real sector. economics, we must understand that there are very many possibilities in Ukraine, including the use of natural resources for the development of the Ukrainian economy, the Ukrainian sector, especially in construction. And because it's a very bureaucratic system or a very difficult system to create permits for basic things, whether it's sand or granite or clay, and so on, it's inhibiting the development of the building industry. And so if you're in an epicenter system and so on, please look at where we're taking the ceramics that are made on our clay, where we're taking the brick of a wedge that's made on our clay, and why China is conveniently selling granite in Ukrainian, and we're not getting it. That's why the real sector needs to be able to actually do economics and not interfere, and not blame who works, because we have more pensioners than real workers. So let's create favorable conditions for Ukrainian manufacturers, simplified to come, file documents, get permission and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. From two factions, two men spoke to you. That's enough. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Nadras on Special Permits for the Use of Nadras. [[Registration number 9539]] [[17:12:12]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. By factions, please: Region Party – 183, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – zero, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – one, communist – zero, People's Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 12. Thank you. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the protection of animals against cruel behaviour, and there is a proposal: by summary procedure. [[Registration numbers 10022, 10022-1]] Please vote. [[17:13:01]] For 212
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u69	Supported. He reports on the first draft of Mikola Stepanovich Komar. Get ready for Culchin's Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, it has happened that we have two similar bills. The first is the one I have to report and the second is the law of Mikola Grigorovitch Kulczynski on the same subject. There are inadequacies in one version of the bill, and in the other project, options. We signed a letter in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council requesting that we postpone the consideration of the bill so that we can make one of the two bills and register it again for consideration in the Supreme Council. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u71	Well, there's no letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u72	He's sick, he's sick.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u73	There's no letter. Who's to postpone the bill's consideration, please vote. [[17:14:19]] For 266 Transferred. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[concerning the prohibition of production without the purpose of the sale of homemade beverages]] Project Nachoshi. Registration number 9756. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:14:58]] For 233 Supported. Report to Oleg Nadosha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u74	This bill has been drafted to remove article 176 from the Administrative Code, which provides for administrative responsibility for the manufacture of strong spirits. What are hard drinks, I'll explain. Everything over 12 degrees Fahrenheit [12 ° C] belongs to a solid alcoholic beverage class. Everything that comes with wine is reinforced, everything connected with vodka, Sam, everything related to the fillings that are prepared both for use and for medical purposes. I propose to delete this article because all the experience of the failed struggle first of the Soviet State, and now of Ukraine, shows the unpredictability of such actions. They're both rotting and chasing themselves. Wine is done and done. It's what they do, it's what they do. Therefore, I believe that it is right for our State to move away from verbal marasm and talk about how we are going to make a living, and to come up with a simple idea that everyone is free and able to do what he considers necessary from the products of his work. But for this drink, for participation, let's say, in market relations, it's to be punished and punished hard. The second part of the bill is therefore intended to strengthen the penalties for manufacturing for the purpose of implementation. Today, it's no secret to anyone that almost every restaurant sells this drink under the clever name cocktail. Today, it's no secret that the mass of the people is after Samin for sale. It is often said that welding nations forget important things. Today, the nation is brewed, not by itself, but by cheap vodka, which is made from rectified spirits made from chemical reactions. And today all of our stores are flooded with this product, in our Council, unfortunately, there is also a large enough lobby that does not allow this law to move. But it's as if it's on each of the deputies' consciences. Today, when I understand the responsibility of society for this law, I would like to ask the Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u75	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u76	send this law to be finalized, to be processed by the committee. Because part of the issue of strengthening the fight for implementation requires clearer clarification and refinement. But after this refinement, I think we're going to reinstate this law into the Council and vote. I'd like to send you to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u77	Is there no objection? School, it doesn't matter. Please, school word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u78	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I, you know, have to emphasize not only to deny it, but also to emphasize it, it's first. The bill itself, which encourages self-refoulement, can of course be good for this reason - freedom of choice. So I think the next bill from the Party of Regions should be to encourage opium production in domestic conditions for self-use. Why not? If you follow that logic, every single one of you is free to choose, everyone has the opportunity to do all of this not for sale, but for their own use. So think about it in the end, I don't mind having Ukraine produce such a product as homemade vodka, but it has to be in certain circumstances and it has to be licensed and everything. And not to propose that we remove administrative responsibility for the electoral run-off, we understand perfectly what this law is for, and even with such subtle wording, to say it, to talk about it, and to show our love for the people, then to send it for work and to go to people, and to tell them what I'm for, but the Supreme Council didn't vote. It's just an elementary misunderstanding of how to solve the question, because if I go again, if I follow the analogy, let's do it, let's also allow opium to be made in the home environment for mass use. Well, why don't you just calm down for the night or smoke that there's someone else out there for the night? I think it was only after the use of opium or after the use of appropriate drugs that such a law could be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, put your hands down, please. The proposal, the author moved, to send a bill for further work. We're not discussing it. And that's why I'm proposing to support the author. When he refines and discusses it, we will discuss it. I understand that by self-innovation, anyone in 450 can say something. Because if you haven't cooked, you've been drinking. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, one minute, please, a co-reporter from the committee and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u80	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, in fact, have nothing to do on the committee. So we have to determine here whether we support this criminal legal policy or not. By 2001 Yuri Anatoliyovich will confirm that there was criminal responsibility for making Samin or apparatus Your own need. Let's go humanizing, take administrative responsibility. The author tells us, "The Ukrainian tradition that dates back to the 20th century, in the 11th century, shows that the Ukrainians drank well." So wait, and there's no evidence of how many drunken crimes, how many broken families, how many road accidents? The committee is asking for this bill to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, we're not sending you to work on the committee. We're going to work on the author. Who understands problems and wants to introduce a bill that you will support. I'm putting a motion to vote: to amend the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[concerning the prohibition of production without the purpose of the sale of homemade beverages]] [[Registration number 9756]] Please vote. [[17:22:09]] For 241 The bill is aimed at redrafting the author. The factions? Please. Region Party – 187, Fatherland – 0, Our Ukraine – 3, Communists did not vote, the People's Party – 20, Reforms – 18, non-fractional – 13. We're listening to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's social protection laws for individual categories of citizens, and the Committee's proposal is to be considered by a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 10023]] Please be supportive. [[17:23:04]] For 216 Supported. Reported the deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Gerasimczuk Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Your point is that the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the social protection of individual categories of citizens, the decision on the need to submit the bill was adopted at a meeting of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons when considering a government bill amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, [[Registration number 10023]] [[Registration number 9496]] Regrettably, the government bill does not provide for amendments to certain Ukrainian laws that lay down the legal basis for the establishment of status for victims of Nazi persecution, persons with disabilities, persons with special merit and special merit before the Fatherland. I mean, these categories of citizens came out of this bill. In connection with the legislation provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the following laws have been amended: "On the status of war veterans and guarantees of their social importance", "On the foundations of social protection for the disabled of Ukraine", "On the basic principles of social protection for veterans of work and other elderly citizens in Ukraine", "On victims of Nazi persecution". The changes to these laws are conceptually agreed with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the proposals contained in the bill do not carry the legal burden of their own, and it is appropriate to take them into account in the drafting of the government bill. [[Registration number 9496]] However, according to article 116 of the Rules, this will be difficult to do, and that is why the bill has been drafted. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u83	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u84	The implementation of the bill does not require additional financial costs. And the Committee on Veterans, Pensioners and Disabled Persons proposes and recommends to the Supreme Council: to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u85	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Besides Carmazin, no one insists? And Dry. Nobody else? Then please, Carmazin, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u86	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Look what's going on. First, the Constitutional Court changes our Constitution. I did. There is no indication that the Constitutional Court can change the Constitution, cancel what has been going on for four years. Then the power is usurped. It is taken by a man who has not been granted these powers by the people. The Constitutional Court then takes a decision that turns out, but it does not have to implement these laws on the status of war veterans or guarantee their social protection, nor on the basis of the social protection of persons with disabilities, nor on the basic principles of social protection for veterans of work, nor on children of war, nor on Chernobyl. No other law is needed if the government lacks the clumps to find the budget. And so it turns out that we're allocating 33 billion, we're all spending 24 billion on oligarchs, and there's no funding for these bills, which we've had to allocate up to 10 billion to all the laws together. We are now invited to make changes that provide only free legal aid and all. But this is already foreseen. This is provided for in the Free Legal Aid Act, where these things are. Perhaps it would be more important to anticipate now and consider the question – and why there are no valid laws being implemented, why the Constitutional Court has become the body that today has acquired the right to eliminate guarantees to people – these issues should be dealt with in order to control the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u87	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I'll be there in one minute. The point is that the opening word of the honourable colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin has nothing to do with the contents of the bill. Because you rightly, Yuri Anatoliyovich, said, article 14 of the basic Law on Free Legal Aid clearly states in a number of paragraphs of this article that such assistance is entitled to receive war veterans, disabled persons, including children with disabilities, labour veterans, senior citizens, victims of Nazi persecution. So the very name "about the social protection of individual population categories, citizens" doesn't fit in. But it's the right thing to do. You know, these rules of law, the rules of free legal aid, are not implemented in places. So instead of writing this law, we could, for example, make a statement. Or, for example, on Government Day to listen to the minister of justice, how such work is organized in places, whether these people can get free legal aid except as assistants to the Ukrainian national deputy who works with them there in the district. Because free legal aid is becoming more difficult. So in this case, this bill doesn't bring any content, in this case, to the right scientific and scientific administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u89	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on social protection of individual categories of citizens. [[Registration number 10023]] Please vote. [[17:30:17]] For-98 Overruled. We are considering a draft law on Ukraine’s identity documents, giving us the right to enter Ukraine, and leaving Ukraine. [[Registration number 10381]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[17:30:48]] For 212 Yes, please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, we can consider this bill, but, frankly, it is not yet agreed upon, all positions. It would therefore be logical to either postpone consideration of the matter, and the author would agree, or we would simply waste our time on it. I'd like to ask you a question, put it over, let's say, in a week.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u91	But this is no longer the first transfer, unfortunately. We keep coming and going. Or let's take it off, or, or, or, or, or. Because they're putting one in and the other they're taking off. I'm voting on a motion to postpone Bill 10381. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:31:57]] For 233 We've moved on. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we have added to this 10381 a bill under number 9592, they are related. Thus, 9592 is transferred accordingly because the Conciliation Board offered to include them and consider them at the same time. We vote in favour of passing Bill 9592. Please vote. [[17:32:42]] For 229 Transferred. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine. [[on ensuring the health of losers and athletes and creating an atmosphere conducive to Euro-2012 matches]] [[Registration number 9642]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:33:22]] For 224 Supported. Reported by Paul Yakimovich Unguryan. Please. Prepare Zac.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! Today, when there is literally two weeks left before the start of the great sports festival, the European Football Championship in Ukraine, we are now considering a very important bill that is aimed at health. Unfortunately, not so much has been done to promote health and healthy lifestyles, but certainly any sporting event has to carry behind it a moment of struggle for human health, especially for young people. That is why one of the requirements of UEFA is to prohibit the use, advertising, of tobacco products in sports competitions. That's why a number of members of our parliament from different factions have introduced this bill, which deals with sports buildings that will take part in the 2012 European Championship, bans the use and use of tobacco choices, the implementation, the sale of tobacco choices, any advertising of tobacco choices, free distribution or gifts of tobacco products. Once again, this is a requirement of UEFA, and before every European championship, this body asks the parliaments of the countries to support it. In fact, it was both in Switzerland and Austria, and now it's our turn. In this regard, I would like to inform you that the Main Committee supports this initiative and, in principle, I believe that the initiative is right and could be voted on today and in general if the House of Deputies agrees. Let's make this championship, really, a holiday together. Together we will make it safe from tobacco smoke for our children, teenagers, and visitors in our country. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u93	Zac, please. Head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The profile committee considered the bill at its meeting, which is proposed by amending the Ukrainian Organization Act, the final part of the European Football Championship to establish a ban on the use, sale, advertising of tobacco products, trademarks for goods and services at sports facilities in the territory of which the respective football matches will be held. The bill does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee on Budget Affairs notes that the proposed draft law does not affect the budget. The Committee on Rules of Procedure, Deputy Ethics and the Operation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine say that some or even most of the issues raised by the bill have already been addressed by the legislation in force. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the bill, subject to comments made. During the discussion of the bill, members of the Committee noted that the ban on consumption, sale, advertising of tobacco products in sports facilities on which the final part of the European Championship will be held would contribute to the development of a healthy lifestyle for the population of Ukraine, especially children and young people. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill on first reading and adopt it as a basis. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u95	Shall we vote? Sign up. Popescu, behind him Grivkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u96	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Your Honourable colleagues, the Party of Regions will vote in favour and we urge other colleagues not to speak for long, we vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u97	Carmazine, please. You don't belong to a group, you don't have a guaranteed right to speak. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u98	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully read the conclusion, the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and this is the case where I completely disagree with it. They say here that the title of the law is wrong, and it's abstract and so on. In my opinion, the name "Ensure the health of the fans and athletes and create an atmosphere conducive to the Euro-2012 matches" in article 13 with badge 1, is perfectly normal. It seems to me that we are absolutely right to prohibit the use and use of tobacco products, the implementation and sale of these products and objects related to their use, and any advertising. In view of the fact that Euro people will go with women and there will be children, and we have to look to the future. What kind of athlete will run after a hen? It's not serious, let's forget about it, and as a civilized state, you've been in civilized states, so you know you won't find room in the hotel for those who smoke, everything's gone. There are reservations around the airports, and we still have smokes, including the Supreme Council. And to you the question, Adam Ivanovich, as long as the ashtrays stand there? Stop the bullying, including the workers of the Apparatus, who you walk in and take the documents, and they suffer from the smoke that they are being attacked all the time. Because of this, there is no time now, there is no time to adopt the law simply as a basis, this law must be adopted in the first reading and in general as a law, it is obvious. And these will not be good intentions for Ukraine to demonstrate for the sport of the nation, not just drunkenness, but also smokyness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u99	Yes, honorary colleagues, those who signed up, Crnwell, one minute, Crnwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u100	So, the honorable Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished colleagues, I am absolutely not against adopting this law, even in general. Little question: Have we already thrown the rules into the trash? The questions that are contained in this bill, which is settled in Ukrainian legislation, the sports buildings are already there, and tobacco advertising has long been banned there. How do we regulate what is settled by law? The next moment, the individual nuances that this law should regulate are marked in that bill that came to second reading. How did the bill, which duplicates the material that already exists, fully duplicate the subject, which is in another Bacheba and others bill? Direct violation of the Rules, I understand that I want to show you how you fight smoking. You don't fight smoking, it's called word fornication and violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u101	There is no violation of the Rules, for those who register do not have the right to study the law and draw conclusions. It's about that or that. And the name of the law is quite different. A completely different name for the law, so they registered correctly. Dear colleagues, you want to work longer, please. School.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u102	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Longer work has been done, and most importantly, good laws can be done longer, bad ones can be dealt with briefly. Therefore, I propose to support Mr. Carmazin, who has just made a proposal not only in the first but also in general to vote on this law. Because he actually regulates things that are not regulated by any law. And what's there to call them, they'll always be. The point is that brand advertising is forbidden. And the advertising of tobacco brands is, unfortunately, still permitted in Ukrainian sports facilities. And I think it's the right, absolutely humane and purely sporting, which is health-supporting, not only professional sports, but also the simple health of people who are going to be stabbed in the stadiums for the Ukrainian assembly and for all the rest of the collectives that are going to be here. I propose to uphold this law in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u103	Is there no objection to voting in general as a law? I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On Organizing and Conducting the Final Part of the European Championship 2012 from Football in Ukraine". [[Registration number 9642]] Please vote. [[17:43:35]] For 303 The law is passed. True, I invite the authors, like Yuri Anatoliovich, to enforce the laws. Because Martinyuk shouldn't take the ashtrays you put in. I'll have you go and take these ashtrays. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons on the Cancellation of Payments for Information from the Single State Register is under consideration. [[Registration number 9729]] [[17:44:28]] For 216 Offer supported. Suslov Evgen Ivanovich – reports. Get ready, Xenia Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u104	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs on the Cancellation of Payments for Information from the Single State Register No. 9729. The purpose of this bill is to significantly reduce the financial burden on operators. So we suggest that we give businesses and entrepreneurs the right to receive extracts and information from the Single State Register for free. You remember, we recently canceled the State Registration Certificate, and instead we offered to use statements or extracts from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs. In this way, you and I have determined that the status of the company's statement or withdrawal from the register seemed to make it easier for entrepreneurs to work where they are. As you know, in our country, we know and love to create obstacles to clean up one another and there are a lot of other officials coming up right away to get more money from entrepreneurs. Accordingly, public authorities require entrepreneurs to have the original extract from the register or to confirm the status of the owner. And as you can see, you get statements, extracts, or help from the register. So the extraction cost is 51 bracelets plus 3 bracelets of 40 copies of each sheet. The cost of a statement is 17 bracelets, plus 3 bracelets of 40 copies of the value of each sheet. It would be nothing if these documents were required only once. But they need to be received very often.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u105	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u106	Clearly, this places a heavy financial burden on businesses. What is specifically recommended by the bill? We propose to cancel the fees for getting an extract, statement or help from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs. The adoption of the bill will allow entrepreneurs and businesses to save considerable money and invest them in business development. Please support this bill. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u107	Yes, thank you. Xenia Leapina, deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Kseniya Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, this bill was considered by the committee at its meeting on February 21, 2012 and was supported by a committee to adopt it as a basis. I point out that today, unfortunately, there is a basic wage on the State Register of Legal Persons. Instead of issuing these statements easily, quickly and freely, if they are needed, instead of opening an electronic register for general use, then these statements will not be necessary at all, instead of allowing the authorities of the state to look directly at this register and verify the information, and then the statements are also unnecessary, instead they simply issue statements for money in turn. This is not a normal situation. This is a situation that needs to be rectified quickly. Both the drafters and the committee believe that the first step to correction should be to cancel the fees for these statements and extracts. I note that the Supreme Council approved here last week the Presidential Law on Administrative Services, Honorary Colleagues. And it's conceptually already established that any administrative service, and I'm noting that issuing extracts and statements from the register is a standard administrative service. It has to be done on a free basis if there is no reason to make a payment. And there is no basis in this case. Because it provides conceptually that the fee is applied to services that actually, firstly, pay is of a purely compensatory nature. And second of all, where it makes sense to administer this fee. The small sums that these two papers are supposed to make up for, which they give us accordingly, are not to be administered. Such a service, according to the concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u109	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u110	You should make it free. So this bill is worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u111	Thank you. We'll vote. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt, in the first reading, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons Entrepreneurs on the abolition of payment for the provision of information from the Single State Register, [[Registration number 9729]] [[17:50:22]] For 255 A decision has been made. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts, there is a proposal to consider a reduced procedure. [[on State-Private Partnerships]] [[Registration number 10228]] [[17:50:51]] For 215 Supported. Reports Xenius Michael’s deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues! More than a year ago, the Ukrainian Law on State-Private Partnership was adopted in this Hall. It's actually a new philosophy, a modern philosophy of investment policy development. When a private partner, together with the state, works together to meet social needs and at the same time to earn income. Such philosophies are being developed today and are being realized today in very many countries that we call developed with you. And that is what is being seen in today’s world as one of the best ways to attract large investments. However, Ukrainian legislation has, as always, been subject to a number of contradictions. And within a year of this law’s existence and its attempts to apply it, it was found that there was a contradiction between this law and other special laws. In particular, there are great difficulties in land use, because any investment object is always on the ground. And it was necessary, despite the fact that a partner could win a competition for some form of a public private partnership agreement, he would then have to follow the general procedure and try separately to obtain documents for the use of land under the object under which he had already won the competition. So the double, triple torture of an investor is useless, and it's clear that the attraction of an investment country doesn't add to it. All of this required appropriate changes. The legal group has been working for almost six months, leading lawyers have entered it, and it has drafted an appropriate bill – a list of changes in a number of laws, including the Act on Concessions, on concessions for the construction and operation of highways, on the rental of state and municipal roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u113	Finish up. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u114	on the characteristics of leases or concessions of fuel-energy facilities, on the characteristics of leases or concessions of centralized water, heating, water supply and so on. All of these laws are special laws that actually regulate certain forms of contracts that can only be applied to the type of public-private partnership contracts. And that's why we're proposing to harmonise these laws with the Law on State-Private Partnership. At the same time, we propose to make some changes to the Law on State-Private Partnership in order to facilitate its perception and application in practice. So we think that as a result we can get a more harmonious legal situation that will not create a contradiction and that will actually contribute to the arrival of large state projects that can actually move Ukraine forward. The committee considered the bill at the meeting. The committee recommends that the bill be supported on the basis. The scientific expertise has made a number of observations, but if you look closely at these observations, a number of these comments can be taken into account in the second reading. And we can improve the text of this bill accordingly. So please back him up on the ground and have the committee rework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u115	Shall we discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u116	I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on public private partnership. [[Registration number 10228]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:55:25]] For-27 Not supported. There's an offer to send the author for a recast, please vote. [[17:55:45]] For 228 A decision has been made. We're looking at the draft State Customs Act. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 9737]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[17:56:11]] For the 220. Thank you. Reports Vitaly Homutinnik, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy. He's one of the drafters of the bill, so four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u117	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The adoption of the bill requires the improvement of the legislative settlement of the issue of public duty payments. For the time being, the order of payment of government duties and its size are determined by the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs, adopted in 1993, to which more than 60 amendments have been made to date by the adoption of the relevant legislative acts. Such a series of rules, which dealt with the payment of the State's duty for the filing of lawsuits and complaints to the courts, were completely removed from the decree and separated into another law that we passed, the Law on the Court of Justice. The foregoing has led to a decrease in and confusion in the numbering of points to this decree, which makes its application more difficult. In this way, the committee developed a new version of the State Customs Bill, which brought together the entire regulatory framework and the entire legislative field into a single bill, which clearly defined the terms and contents of government duties. The payers of government duties, their facilities, the size of government duties, the order of their payments, and the cases of payment by the payer of the sums paid are also identified. It should be noted that the draft Law on State Customs does not change the rates of duty itself, that is, all the rates that exist today are maintained. The Cabinet of Ministers supports the bill. Science and expertise has made a number of comments that we can take into account in the second reading. And given that we're bringing in the Cabinet of Ministers decree, which is almost 10 years old, which has changed dozens of times, the committee has developed, I repeat, this bill and proposes to be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u118	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Shall we vote? I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the draft State Customs Act in the first reading. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 9737]] Please be supportive. [[17:59:10]] For 251 A decision has been made. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the State Tax Service in connection with the implementation of administrative reform]] [[Registration number 10224]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[17:59:41]] For 216
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u119	Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Miroshnichenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u120	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear voters, dear colleagues! For consideration by the Supreme Council, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code is proposed. [[on State Tax Service and on Administrative Reform in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 10224]] This project is called upon to bring the Tax Code into line with the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the redistribution of powers between the President of Ukraine and the government, as well as with the laws "For the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine", "For the Central Executive Authorities". I'll stop at the main points in more detail. First. The Constitution of Ukraine refers to the creation, reorganization and liquidation of the Prime Minister of ministries and other central executive bodies, which is part of the first article of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The use of the laws of their own ministries and other central executive authorities contradicts the general principles of their establishment and the distribution of powers among them. Therefore, it is suggested that we move away from the use of their own names and that we refer only to the spheres of public policy: the central authority of the executive branch, which ensures the formation of state policies in a specific sphere. It is by law that the existence of the central authorities of the central authorities is not considered appropriate and violates the principles of organizing the activities of the latter. The approach proposed in the bill will ensure that constitutional provisions are respected to determine the powers of the central executive authorities in the law and enable them to build an effective system. The other one. It is proposed that the Tax Code be supplemented with new provisions aimed at standardizing the legal, economic, and organizational principles of the State Tax Service. Dear colleagues! Please support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u121	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u122	and accept the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u123	Thank you, too. Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council, Yuri Romanovic Miroshnich, was given a detailed description of the proposed changes to the Tax Code. They all refer to more of the legal, technological, technical changes involved in administrative reform in Ukraine. One of the main thesis that I could stop and pay attention to is this. That following the adoption of these amendments to the Tax Code, the drafting of the Law on State Taxation in Ukraine is actually not valid. So all the positions that are in the Law on the State Tax Service go to the Ukrainian Tax Code. This is totally supported by the committee -- this ideology. In fact, we're making new positions and actually a new chapter that is systematizing all the issues related to the Ukrainian Tax Service. The committee decided to recommend adoption on the basis of the bill. The main scientific and expert office has made a lot of comments from different people that we think we are working on a second reading with the author and the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is he insisting on the performance? Please sign up. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of Bill 9665, all the bills proposed by Miroshnichenko must be of great importance to the boards and in general because there are completely different people behind the Peacekeeper. So is this bill. You read it very carefully, but it's not just in the names of the central organs. By the way, the names are also very interesting. I'm curious, but what is the central authority of the executive branch of financial policy, or is it Minfin, or is it tax? So this is a question that requires serious research. Then, what didn't like was the title "Central Authority on Oil Extraction." And so on, what else did you have to redo it? Then, when it comes to the authorization of the tax office, it says, "The functions of the public tax authorities," which means it doesn't sound like "The functions of the central executive authority on tax matters," but it already sounds like its own name. So since there's a double interpretation of these things, I don't think it's necessary at this point in time, because according to Law 9665, the central authority on financial policy is actually the President's Secretariat, read that law that you just passed last week, and from which the whole of Europe is laughing, and the Monitoring Committee of the Council of Europe is now looking at it and preparing its conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be finalized. I would like to take these circumstances into account. I bet the vote on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine, [[on the State Tax Service in connection with the implementation of administrative reform]] [[Registration number 10224]] [[18:06:50]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to consider a number of drafts in the re-reading mode. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving road safety and regulating the international movement of passengers and cargo is being tabled for consideration. The committee made a letter of this content, however, that a number of round tables had been held in preparation for the draft bill, but there was still a need to work to reconcile the individual provisions of the bill, that is. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to postpone the review of the draft Act, to amend some Ukrainian legislation on improving road safety and regulating the permit system for international passenger and freight transport. [[Registration number 5220-d]] Please vote. [[18:08:25]] For 255 The decision has been taken. The bill has been postponed. A draft Law on Private Detective Activity is being announced for consideration. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:08:53]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u128	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A committee on law enforcement pursuant to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree prepared a first reading draft of the Ukrainian Law on private detective activity. The purpose of the bill is to regulate private and search activities. I remind you that we are not the first year on this issue. What have we improved in this bill? There's a clear definition of "private detective activity," which shows that it's different from entrepreneurial activity. This is a set of non-State measures aimed at improving the mechanism for ensuring human constitutional rights and freedoms, protecting the rights and interests of legal persons, more detailed types of services that private detectives can provide. This is where the collection of information is added not only in civil matters but also in commercial matters on the basis of a contract made by contemporaries of the process. It is also suggested that the grounds for cancelling the testimony of the right to engage in private detective activity be extended. At the same time, after the testimony of a private investigator has been cancelled, there are 30 days to fulfill their contractual obligations. It is also possible to obtain a witness 10 days after the application is made, not a month later, as foreseen in the previous draft of the bill. This is consistent with the Ukrainian Act on Free System in Economic Activities. In addition, it is suggested that the right to charge the actions or omissions of internal affairs officials be given not only to the courts but also to the superior authorities. The committee believes that the adoption of the bill will allow the actual activities of a large number of people to be removed from the shadows. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in the first reading on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. At the same time, considering that this bill has been discussed and worked on more than once, there is every reason to accept it as a basis and generally as a law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u129	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, Yuri Prokopchuk, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u130	Yuri Prokopchuk "BUT-"Batychina" Obviously, the adoption of this bill, and here again I also propose to accept it as a whole, is urgent. Because, unfortunately, in today’s policy, when the reform of law enforcement agencies, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service, has led to a huge number of investigators and operational workers today either being in stock or in retirement, who also have tremendous experience in their practical work. And that's actually how we solve another social problem. So these people who have this experience can use it for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens on a legal basis, on a legal basis, not to be security guards or anyone else. And at the end of a human being, there will be an opportunity for a citizen, if he doesn't believe in law enforcement structures today, for law enforcement authorities to go to the very experts who will investigate a particular species that is defined in the law. So my proposal is to adopt this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u131	Grivkowski, refuse. Fedun, faction of the Party of the Regions. Yuri Karmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u132	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", Ukrainian opposition. Dear National Deputies! It's only been a little over 10 years since the Law on Detective Search Activities is being considered at the end of the day, because for the first time I've introduced it, more than 10 years ago, and society wasn't ready at the time to adopt such a bill. Now I see that the authors of this law were the former generals of the police, the law enforcement officers, the judges, and I believe that the bill is worthy to accept it. Another question is how it's going to work. Another question is whether we should go to such radicalism in order to accept the law as a whole. What the question is now. I would like to say, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, that such a law is being passed in general. We need to make some changes, some additions, and this is our right of national deputies. The law is great, it's serious. He wanted to pay particular attention to cooperation that needs to be regulated and to the interaction of private entities with law enforcement agencies, the preparation of professional private investigators, and the use of special means to be used. I think that those people who have already carried a life of arms can still carry it, let it be called rubber tools and so on. The law is necessary. There may even be a shorter deadline for drafting this bill, but it should be accepted only in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u133	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, it's a good idea. And in a civilized society with a high level of law-abiding, of course, such a law would have to be passed and such a law would have to be voted on. But there are several things that call for serious warning. First. This law, in accordance with article 15 of the Law on Principles and Prevention of Corruption, would not have passed anti-corruption expertise, it is clear. Imagine for a moment when 50 percent of pensioners work in detectives' offices as agencies, and the other part of law enforcement works in government structures, and the victim or suspect goes around the circle. They will sell their own boots, goats, and even houses, but they will not get the truth. Therefore, I would like to point out that such a bill cannot be adopted today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u135	Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. There is a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Private Search Activities Act, [[Registration number 6288]] [[18:17:01]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the proposal to deal with the issue of a reduced procedure, is being announced for consideration. [[on criminal liability for abstinence of punishment]] [[Registration number 6681]] Please vote. [[18:17:38]] For 219 Decision taken. Reporter: Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legislative Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u136	Thank you! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement was prepared for a re-reading of the Ukrainian Act amending the Criminal Code on Criminal Responsibility for Avoidance of Punishment. The purpose of the bill is to remove gaps in the current Ukrainian Criminal Code regarding the criminalization of persons for the elimination of criminal punishment irrespective of the order of appointment. The Committee's work takes into account the observations and proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular with regard to the dissemination of articles 52, 389 and 390 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, not only to persons who have been sentenced by the court but also to those who have been punished on the basis of articles 53, 57, 82 and 83 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. After considering the bill, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill can also be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u137	Dear colleagues who insist on it. Please sign up. Put your names on the board. Hanusztak, the BUT faction is "The Fatherland." He's handing over Yuri Prokopchuku. Please, Yuri Prokopchuk. Then there's Arjevitin. Then there's Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u138	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." You know, the previous bill, which was just aimed at demonization in fact, and the choice of Ukrainian citizens, who should investigate a case, participate in it, was successful, let's say, unvoted. This shows that today, most of the people in charge of the Party of Regions want to keep a monopoly and control over all law enforcement agencies and investigations, where they can be instructed, persecuted by opposition and so forth. This is the next bill, which is being considered, directed against the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka. And it is especially done to ensure that even more of those abuses for unlawful condemnation are not so severe. This is the face of this power today. I mean, for people, for citizens, there's no outfit, just what's being offered. And for those who have been wronged today, it will be even worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u139	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u140	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition I want to ask some questions to those who form the agenda. Please tell me that the issue has already been removed from the agenda of the European Council on the attitude towards crimes for which the convicted leaders of the Ukrainian opposition, Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko, have not been removed? I would like to ask you that we don't want to live in a democratic state? Do we still think that we're going to come up with a selective, point-to-point kind of legislation and kind of point-to-point changes to laws that are useful to someone? To decriminalize an article about the alleged abuse of power, think of the person who didn't sign anything, signed anything, or, or. And the directives, my dear friend, I don't want to call your name, I really respect you, and the directives were that the deal was to sign a $235 deal, but the man was called off. And the man who called back had enough conscience to testify that he was against it. Do you understand? And you didn't hold her responsible. Because this testifies to selective justice. And now we're making selective changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Code. And the right thing to do is to write a science-experimental government that's beyond the scope of the bill is to make changes and take into account article 58th, 62th, 85th. The point is that you and I haven't counted and there's no consensus in society right now, we don't want to modernize the 365th Criminal Code. This calls for a postponement of the bill. So for the time being, it's going to be a very complex change.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u142	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, well, with regard to the legal basis, we can agree here, we may not agree, we may not agree, we may discuss. But we don't understand the first part of the speech, where there was a talk about the leader of the opposition, well, we don't understand who. A year ago, Julia Timoshenko said that the person you crowned in the square was a bank project. So which one of you is the leader of the opposition, you'll find out so we know what this is all about. You've got us all messed up. As for the substance of the draft, it must also be supported here by the speaker, and the law must be upheld. Now, with the leader of the opposition, we need to figure it out. Then tell me who it is. I would have believed a woman when she said it was a bank project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office has also made a positive conclusion to this bill in the part where it can be accepted as a basis. A proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on criminal liability for abstinence of punishment]] [[Registration number 6681]] Please vote. [[6:25:04]] For the 250. Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine and a new edition of the Ukrainian Insurance Act is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9614]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u144	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! For the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws and a new edition of the Ukrainian Insurance Act is proposed. To finalize the bill, a working group was set up to include the Ukrainian National Deputies, representatives of the National Commission on Financial Services Markets Regulation, the General Scientific and Experimental Administration, the Ministry of Finance and other ministries that have a bearing on this. The draft law is primarily aimed at improving the protection of the rights of consumers of insurance services. Ukraine's new legislation on insurance takes into account the basic recommendations of European directives. The amended draft law provides for: the registration of insurers only in the form of a shareholder association; defining the classification of the sector and types of insurance in accordance with the recommendations of the first EU Council Directive; the granting of a cross-border insurance permit in cases established by law; the establishment of a professional reinsurance institution and the provision of insurance as a separate type of insurance; the establishment of eligibility requirements that take into account the quality of insurance assets, its management and disclosure system, the definition of conditions for access to activities in Ukraine by non-resident insurance companies, the establishment of requirements for corporate insurance management and other issues that are integrated into a comprehensive bill, in fact the new edition of the Insurance Act. The main scientific and expert office recommends that we take the basis for some of the comments and suggestions. The Cabinet of Ministers supports it. The financial services commission also supports. The committee proposes to accept this project as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Alexander Edin, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be by Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u146	Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the valid Ukrainian Insurance Act was adopted in 2001, and at the time of adoption, this law reflected the situation in the insurance market at the time. But the current state of the economy of Ukraine, the state of development of insurance in particular, requires changes in regulatory approaches in this sector. It is therefore appropriate not to make individual changes to the law, but to present it in a new edition that reflects the real state of things and would form the basis for further development and integration of the Ukrainian insurance market into the world. Today, Ukraine’s adoption of the New Reformed Insurance Act is particularly relevant in connection with the effects of the economic crisis, since crises in the country’s financial sector, particularly in insurance, have particularly revealed weaknesses in the system of overseeing and regulating the Ukraine’s insurance market. I am sure that this bill needs to be supported in order for Ukraine's insurance market to finally become civilized and consumer-oriented. So I urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u147	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I also share the opinion of previous authors that this is finally the case. a new version of the bill, prepared, indeed, before the first. To receive it in the first reading, because a group of nine deputies working on it is walking in circles. The time has come for us to accept in the first reading and, of course, to receive new proposals from deputies who will naturally be involved in the improvement. A group of national MPs who worked really, really improved the legislative technique that we recommended from science and expertise. New chapters were added on mediation, government regulation. This is also agreed with the relevant government agencies that are responsible for the matter. The insurance classes were substantially repaired because both Minfin and the Antimonopoly Committee were required. In fact, essentially, the capitalization of insurance companies is increasing substantially. For example, life insurance already requires five million statutory capital. Some types of insurance are required to have a regulatory capital of between 22 million and 32 million. Of course, for the time being, it is being criticized as if the intervention of the body that will regulate the activity is excessive. But how to put order in this market, really, trust goes down, payments go down. And some financial devices can only be stopped if, in fact, the state intervenes in these processes. There has been a significant change in prudential supervision of, in fact, the capital, the ability to pay, the formation of reserves for insurance companies. Of course, many do not like it. But this is a financial institution that works with the cost of Ukrainian citizens, so usually productive supervision should be as a foregone conclusion and should be present in this market. So, of course, in the first reading, you can accept and need this version of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u149	Dear National Deputies! Who else insists on the performance? None. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine and a new edition of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[Registration number 9614]] Please vote. [[18:32:22]] For 231 Decision taken. Now, dear colleagues, we need to consider a series of bills that we have included in the agenda in the morning, which were prepared in advance by the committees for consideration, namely: this is a bill amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Psychiatric Assistance Act on the size of the aid to the person who is taking care of the disability. A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. [[18:33:12]] For 207 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Social Policy Lydia Drozdova. The correspondent is Vice-Chairman of the committee, Victor Corge. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u150	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, a government bill has been drafted to implement the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine. Ukraine's draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Psychiatric Assistance Act, in particular, provides for an increase from May 2012 in the amount of assistance to the person caring for disability I and Group II as a result of a mental disorder of 10 per cent of the subsistence minimum - 109.4 bracelets in the amount of assistance in May to the minimum wage of 1,094 bracelets of minimum wage in May. Moreover, the right to support families whose income does not exceed the three subsistence minimums established for each member of the family rather than one subsistence minimum per member of the family. However, to implement a supplementary mechanism for calculating the amount of aid that would be the difference between three living minimums per family member and the income of the family but not more than the minimum wage. In order to implement the bill, there are 131.2 million dollars in change to the State budget. Taking into account the above, and the fact that the bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Health Protection, with its adoption as a basis and as a whole as a law, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, adopting the law in the first reading on the basis and as a whole, with an amendment to the date of entry into force, and from the date of publication, please support the draft Law and adopt it in the first reading as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u151	Thank you. Please sit down. Victor Corge, Deputy Head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u152	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear voters! The Health Committee considered the bill at its meeting. And I would like to draw your attention to what is being suggested to change the current order of calculation of monthly financial assistance to persons who care for persons with disabilities I and II of the group as a result of a mental disorder. This bill removes restrictions that allowed only low-income citizens to receive such assistance. Today, by the way, there are more than 9.5,000 people in our country. And what's important is that on January 1, 2012, there are 30,000 731 people in psychoneurological boarding schools, 152 of whom are present. On average, each patient’s maintenance costs more than 2.5,000 dollars a month and more than 30,000 dollars a year. But it's clear that for any sick person, it's better if it's not in the boarding school, it's under the care of their loved ones. The amount of help available to those in charge today amounts to 109 dollars. This certainly does not solve this very sensitive problem. As I said before, only low-income citizens receive the right. The bill’s approach will allow for an increase in the amount of such assistance to 1,094 dollars a month. The committee supports the adoption of the bill in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u153	Dear colleagues who insist on discussing the matter. Please sign up. They insist. Names of the national MPs, please. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u154	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". There is no doubt that this law must be upheld. Because that material aid, which was previously in the amount of 109 bracelets of 40 dollars for the person who is doing all day long foreign aid for the patient with mental illness and group I, it was too small and, you could say, a violent sum. [[and]] Most of these people do not work because such care requires constant attention and they cannot work at least full - time, full - time employment. That's why it was already called the figure, that's about 9.5 to 10,000 of these people, the money with the changes to the State budget for 2012 in the amount of 131 million for these purposes is projected. And it should be possible for people to receive at least the funds that will allow them to pay more attention to care. Because no one, like a natural person, will care for this category of people. And that large number of people, that's almost 30,000 who are in specialized psychiatric boarding schools, where whoever was there, don't let God see all these things. That's why we're going to support this piece of legislation. Thank you. And you can accept it as a whole, there's practically no need to change anything or add anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u155	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u156	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gordonka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u157	Sergei Gordijenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u158	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Thank you, Vladimir Alexiyovich. I would like to draw attention to such a problem. Of course, there is no doubt that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will necessarily support this bill, and it is extremely important. To a large extent, he does not decide, does not solve such a vital question, and the help will be small, will not save these families. But I would like to draw attention to another problem. And today, I'd like to ask representatives of the government here, and especially to ask the drafters of the bill, that's for our Ukrainian government. The point is that local authorities, executives, have given an unspoken command not to write off the benefits and free recipes. These recipes are not written to disabled people or to all categories of people in need. I'm asking you to check it out, it really is. And here I am approached by a resident of the village of Obolon in the Seminal region of Poltava that her son has belongs to that very category, an article that we are discussing. But she goes to the hospital to write a free prescription or a thank - you prescription, and she is denied it. Do you realize that this is a terrible thing? Because if we do not give special medicines, such a category of people and others, it exacerbates their disease itself, they become socially dangerous. So I'm drawing attention to the fact that not only the mentally ill, but the very many categories of people who need medical attention, today the executive authorities are refusing to issue the benefits and free recipes. Especially in the case of the mentally ill, the government must decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u159	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u160	Dear colleagues! Based on the principles of humanism and humanity, by the principles of human rights, I call on all Ukrainian national deputies to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u161	Dear National Deputies! Question closed. I would also like to join in with the suggestions that have just been made, Jaroslav Dryho, on acceptance as a whole. Yeah, it's small, but it's 10 times more than it was. Let's just take it one step at a time. Ladies and gentlemen, is there no objection to putting to the vote in general? None. I am voting on the proposal of a committee on acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Psychiatric Assistance Act. [[on the extent to which assistance is provided to a person caring for a disabled person]] [[Registration number 10416]] Please vote. [[18:42:09]] For 267 The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine on the regulation of purchase prices for milk is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10456]] The committee's offering to accept. consider the matter under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:42:47]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Tereshuk. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u162	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by a bill amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine on the regulation of purchase prices for milk. [[Registration number 10456]] In general, milk is a special product: for children, it is the main food for the elderly, it is again the main food for the protein to be filled. At the same time, for rural people, for residents who keep cattle, it's also a social and significant product, because it's the family budget, people who don't have jobs in rural areas who can fix it on account of what they sell milk. Today the situation has become quite difficult. Disgruntled today are those who buy milk because the price in stores of 11 dollars per liter of milk is quite high. As a result, only 200 kilograms [200 kg] of milk, or 60 percent of what is needed, is consumed at a rational rate of 380 kilograms per person. Rural producers are not satisfied today, so production prices are changing over the course of the year, and today they are quite low. I understand those who say today that milk prices are pretty good, they're not bad for businesses, but they're low for the population. And so we have it year after year. I have to say that today's legislative base allows you to regulate subsidies by setting minimum prices, but all of this is not working today. That's why we are, no matter what. That there is a law on milk and dairy products have made changes to the Agricultural Support Act. The bill provides for recognition that milk is an object of government price regulation, which will allow restrictions to be imposed on the commercial price. And secondly, there's a clause in the bill that predicts that milk buyers are processors, they're wholesale buyers, they're splits, they have to be calculated for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u163	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u164	Production for seven days.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u165	Banks. Banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u166	Since we got the product. That is all, a simple bill, the committee asks for support in the first reading, Viacheslav Anatoliyevich for second reading, please make comments and suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u167	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Who insists on the discussion? Sign up. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Leshchenko, Communist faction, then Vladimir Kaplanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u168	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro The question raised by this bill is extremely important for our Ukrainian agriculture. Because every year in winter and summer, a monopolist is a milk processor, and they arrange and dictate the price. And this price is as good as possible. The least is this price. In this way, the peasant’s very hard work is crumbling. We Communist factions have repeatedly asked the government this question. Including me and National Deputy Gordijenko recently, and my colleagues have addressed Prime Minister Azarov Mikoli Janović of Ukraine with the same problem. We suggested that the government create conditions for regulating milk prices. But from there, there were some receipts, they said, a market thing, the market would fix everything, and then everything would be fine. At the same time, in the spring, for example, in the Chernigiv region, the purchase price for milk fell to 1 bracelet 50 copies and below. This leads to herding, for peasants, of course, are not comfortable keeping this livestock, and this is extremely hard work. The Communist faction, of course, supports this legislative initiative, because it's actually our insistence for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u169	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u170	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, we all know that today the situation in this field of milk production and processing is more complex than ever. Well, really, if you go through especially before the elections in Ukrainian villages, the first question that raises in rural congregations is the price of milk in any local community. Because most Ukrainians who live in rural areas today depend on their own household where they process and grow beets and so on and so forth, and on cattle, the main thing is the cow. And on this background, there are corresponding speculations when milk processors actually make a monopoly and buy at the prices they have. I'd like to look at this figure here when we arrived, the representatives of the Montenegrin and Žitomirščina MPs were when the debt for the milk delivered was more than 4-5 months, and the value of one liter of milk was equal to 1 pint of 70. Is that possible in this country? Today, the reporter said that 11 grevens cost milk in the store, and certainly need to be supported, the bill is certainly simple. Yes, the state should begin to take care of this issue. We will support with two hands that milk industry and milk should be subject to government price regulation. Next question. Yes, we need to limit the time limits between those who consume milk to processing businesses and citizens. But from a voice directly out of place, I'd like to make a proposal, and then we'd be ready to support this bill for a second reading. Let's do, let's do a tool like this, so that money, subsidies, if they go out of the government budget, go to those who produce this milk, not the processors. Please consider the profile committee, such an offer. The MP's Reform for the Future will certainly support this bill with 19 votes. And thank you, great honor to those who brought it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u171	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u172	In this regard, Mikola Tomenko will best express himself. Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u173	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u174	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to our colleagues from the faction of the parliamentary majority who have drawn attention to a problem that goes beyond common sense, including. Because if you generalize the average price policy, it will soon be possible to buy about a liter of milk in a village like a liter of water bottled in supermarkets. This means that in fact, the village is placed on the brink of not just survival, but extinction. Because it's one of the means of being a peasant and a human. What's more, I'll tell you what I don't agree with in prison. They write in an explanatory note that there is no decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in 2011 that applies, and they list: animal support, in individuals, subsidies. Not done! The authors write: "As a result, in 2011, the number of cows decreased by 50,000 heads. The total milk production decreased by 163,000 thousand tons," and so on. Then I have a question. We had to add and say, so we think that the Ukrainian government is pursuing anti-national politics in relation to the Ukrainian village. And at least the APC minister needs to be released. Well, preferably, the whole government needs to be freed. Because the extermination of the village that the authors of the explanatory note have written is lacking in organizational conclusions. Because we can adopt the law, but again, the decrees have been adopted, but none have been fulfilled! So, dear colleagues, in such a situation, the minister should really be called. To explain why such a situation in Ukraine that purposefully destroys the Ukrainian village? And essentially. Of course, we must be accepted in the first and in general. But experts, experts are saying, maybe let's exchange more, to add cooking organizations, cooking organizations, after all. Thus, it is possible to expand, extend, as it were, the object of those organizations involved in the purchase of milk. But once again, I'm saying that our position is not to look at it and drag it out in time, and today we have to make a decision. And demand that the government, unlike previous decrees, comply with the Ukrainian Law and support the Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u175	Dear National Deputies! The discussion is closed. Oh, one minute, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u176	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that something is going to change with the adoption of this law, then there is absolutely no need to expect it. It is only about adding to the Law on State Support for Ukrainian Agriculture and regulating purchase prices that law only rules on price regulation and its object. The law adds the word "milk" and adds processing to the law. That's why I think it's absolutely right that proposal that was made by the People's Deputy, Mikola Tomenko, where he also suggested that we add: cooking organizations. But, Mikola Volodymyrovich, apart from cooking organizations, there are also individuals who are entrepreneurs who are making ready-made work. What do they do then? They should be there, too. Therefore they are to be added through whom, and the law must be adopted in the first and second readings immediately. This is the first time. And secondly, the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u177	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u178	I'm done. Thank you. . Let the government go to the store and see if they can find half a liter of milk less than four bracelets. They won't be in the store. Because of this. It's already diluted milk. As a result, the law must be adopted with these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I don't think we're making any adjustments here in the east. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption as a basis and entrusts itself with a reduced procedure to work on it because they do not want to fail. Well, so there's no veto. Because now we're going to include details and then we're going to burn down the law. Although all suggestions are correct. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a committee, which is based on the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, on the adoption of the draft Law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture. [[on the regulation of purchase prices for milk]] [[Registration number 10456]] Please vote. [[18:54:51]] For 273 Decision taken. The motion for a committee to prepare the bill for the second reading is put to the vote, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[6:55:16]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to decide on draft laws and regulations on the organizational and institutional nature of the commemorative dates and events. I would very much ask that we not be politicized not to politicize this subject, but simply because we have included these issues in the agenda so that we can just look at them, accept them, by assigning the committee and the Chief Legal Authority in preparing for the signature to look at the question, there, stylists and date clarifications. A draft regulation on the creation of the Military Glory Alley in the Park of Eternal Glory of the city of Kiev is being announced. Is there a need to discuss this? Well, then, with a reduced procedure, please. I am voting on the issue of a reduced procedure. [[18:56:28]] For 217 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukraine’s national deputy, Vadim Kolesnichenko. Coroner is the deputy head of the Committee for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Vladimir Gerasimchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u180	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the draft decree envisions the creation of a national patriotic symbol of the state, which will be of national significance and a symbol of virtue and honor for all the people of Ukraine. The creation in the Park of Eternal Glory of the city of Kiev of the Aleya of Military Glory is proposed through the establishment of memorable signs, bustles to the prominent sons of the Ukrainian people, participants in the Great Homeland War, who have made a significant contribution to the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders. The initiative to create the Military Glory Alley in the Eternal Glory Park of Kiev was expressed by the leaders of civil, military and veteran organizations, which was further supported by President Viktor Yanukovič of Ukraine and Prime Minister of Ukraine Azarov. It is the public who proposes to begin the construction of the Hall of Fame in the Park of Eternal Glory to such outstanding sons of the Ukrainian people, to the participants of the Great Nativity war, like the Hero of the Soviet Union twice, the pilot-cosmonaut of the Soviet Union, the Hero of the Soviet Union twice, the General of the Army of Cherniakhovsky, twice the Hero of the Soviet Union, the pilot-tester, the Major of the Aviation Ahmet-han Sultan, twice the Hero of the Soviet Union, the Admiral of the Horskov fleet, twice the Hero of the Soviet Union, Major General Kovpak. The determination of the further order of the setting of the memorial signs is proposed by the decision of the committee to be created by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out this decree. On May 16, this year, a first - reading project was supported by a professional committee on pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons. I would like to take the first reading as a basis for furthering the correct comments made by representatives of the public organizations and the committee of profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u181	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Gerasimchuk, deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u182	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee at the meeting on May 17 discussed the draft decree on the creation of the Military Glory Avenue in the Park of Eternal Glory of the City of Kiev of the People's Deputy, Vadim Koleznichenko. In general, the committee supports the initiative to ensure that the memory of the dead defenders of the country is cherished, but a number of comments were made on the committee. First, it involved funding, which. sources of funding that are not mentioned in the Supreme Council decree. There were also considerable discussions about the list of names of liberator soldiers to be installed. Civil organizations, veterans' organizations also support this decision, but there have also been comments that there is no need to limit itself to liberation soldiers born in the territory of modern Ukraine, but also to extend this list to other republics of the former Soviet Union that have made a significant contribution to the liberation of Ukraine from German-Fashistic invaders. In general, I would like to point out that the committee is proposing to adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u183	Thank you. Have a seat. Please. They insist on performing. Please sign up. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u184	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I think the deputies will back me up on that. That everything about the bright memory of the heroic advance of the Soviet people, a Soviet soldier in the years of the Great Homeland War, which broke Fascism and protected peace on earth, must be supported. This is what we need, this is what our descendants need if we really want to build a free, democratic, happy country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u185	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u186	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. The faction will support this draft decision in every way and draw attention to the fact that not only do we need to create new ones and not only in Kiev, but also to distribute them to the district centers, to the districts and to the villages, and yet it draws attention to the fact that we need to maintain them properly and to all the memories that we have been created to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u187	Thank you. Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u188	Gentlemen, I don't deny the eternity of our heroes' memory. But let's look essentially at the shape of this project. First of all, the question is, why military and not combat? So in the Ukrainian context, it would sound much better. Secondly, this is the authority of local self-government, this is not the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, absolutely, clearly. Here in the city of Kiev, and then in the city of Kharkiv, in the village of Red Gut, there or there. Let's still respect the higher body. How can this really be done in a civilized way? Think of it as a determination, or not necessarily an execution. The general law on observance is, of course, memorable signs, and in this case we recommend that local self - government authorities make decisions on this matter. Because a decision that does not have a financial basis cannot be implemented, it cannot be executed by definition. So let's put these pre-election pear companies somehow into a way that has a financial, material and technical basis. Because otherwise it's just going to be a simple shot and people will laugh at us because we can't implement those noble intentions that we declare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I would ask only my colleagues and Yuri Hanushtzak, particularly not to mention that the decrees are not necessary for execution. Why, then, do we accept them? That's not a recommendation. The Supreme Council adopts laws and regulations that are required for implementation. If we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u190	Dear colleagues, it's just we're in bad control. That's why I, my distinguished colleagues, am voting on the proposal to adopt the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the creation of the Military Glory Alley in the Park of Eternal Glory of the City of Kiev, please vote. [[Registration number 10389]] [[19:04:23]] For 262 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft decree marking the 195th anniversary of the birth of I.K. Iwazovsky. Is there a denial? Let the committee head say so, and we'll vote then. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, if a man insists, dear fellows, I must abide by the Rules. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u191	What are you yelling at, I don't understand? It's my right, just as it is my right to get up and report. On behalf of the committee, I want to say that in fact, in the person of Iwazovsky or Ovones Iwazian, who then became John Iwazovsky, Ukraine, and the world art has a wonderful figure. And I also wanted to emphasize, because it's very often made that we just know him as a battalionist: the Ninth Wal, the Battles, and so on. Besides, I want to emphasize that he's brought great, very many paintings into his Ukrainian subject. It's "The Peanuts in the Steppe," it's "The Harvest of Ukraine." We have an amazing personality, which, apart from being a brilliant artist, he has done a great deal for the city of Theodosius: he has participated in all the most important projects to modernize this city. Therefore, the committee supports and let us vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u192	Thank you. Vadim Koleschenka, will you be performing? Does the author refuse to speak? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u193	Dear colleagues! This outstanding figure certainly needs to be noted because it is an example for our local wealthy people today. In addition, Mr. Iwazowski designed, at his own expense, and then put into operation the first archaeological museum in Theodosia. Then he created the first platoon in Theodosius, and thanks to his mercenati activity in his hometown, the first fountain to work today was one of the most famous monuments of the old city. He also built a concert hall, a library, a high school, a railway, and a seaport. So I think he is an example to our contemporaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues! When the committee considered the issue, it suggested that some clarifications should be made here and that they lay down and specify the draft regulation in certain places. I propose to accept the project as a whole, taking into account the committee's recommendations. I'm betting on this motion for registration number 10148 on the adoption of a decree marking 195th anniversary of Avasowski's birthday, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote. [[19:07:28]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! It's proposed that you think about the draft decree on the 130th anniversary of Cyril Steczenk's birth. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u195	Dear colleagues, our constituents, Kirilo Stecenko, is one of the wonderful tribes of Ukrainian spiritual, cultural, and religious leaders of the late 20th century. I just want to remind our fellow countrymen that this man under the wings of Mikaly Lisenko, the famous Ukrainian composer, made an amazing contribution to our spiritual music, because he was also a church writer who wrote for the church. And to this day, in the Ukrainian, Russian churches, in Orthodox churches, in Christian churches, there are remarkable musical works. Kirilo Stecenko introduced a large page into the music culture of Ukraine. And I think it would be very normal for Ukraine today, an independent Ukrainian state to properly mention it and celebrate its Jubilee. And Vladimir Mikhailovich, in order not to repeat himself, almost every draft decision we made, not by changing the meaning there, as it were, but simply, well, to that normative draft decision of some kind. Because that's not exactly what the authors did. In order not to repeat ourselves, we ask all the decisions to take into account the comments made by the committee, and they merely clarify, once again, without changing the meaning, without interfering with the author’s suggestions. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u196	Dear colleagues who insist on discussing this.? I won't. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and in general the draft decree on the 130th anniversary of Cyril Steczenka's birth, please vote. [[Registration number 10201]] [[19:09:56]] For-31 The decision is not taken. A draft decree on the 130th anniversary of the establishment of the Kyrovograd Academy of the Ukrainian Music and Drama Theatre is being announced. M.L. Kropivnicki. Vladimir Yavorowski, please head of the committee. There are a number of suggestions and clarifications that should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u197	Dear colleagues! I am grateful that by noon today we had actually voted in favour of including this Jubilee in the order of the day. I've already spoken, I just want to remind you. What we have, in our theatre art, is Ukrainian has three actual stages. This is an ancient theater in Kamyanz Strumilovy, considered the capital of an ancient theater. There is Poltava ours, which became the capital of the new theater. And there is the city of Kirovograd, the city of Elisavettegrad, where an amazing theater was built. And where Marko Lukić Kropivnicki, Corpheus, brilliant Ukrainian actor, singer, poet, interprener, who at the time when the Ukrainian theater and Ukrainian language were actually banned, the Ukrainian word was banned, he ventured to open the first realistic new Ukrainian theater in those difficult years. This theater itself has a brilliant, simple biography. I wanted to point out that, despite the fact that he was actually in a provincial district center, he was never a provincial theater. I also want to introduce Michael Illashenko, the artistic director of this theater, who also put on Ukrainian classics and put on Chewchenka works and the same Hydamaks that they recently put on, they also put on modern plays by Anatolia Crimea "The Dust of Extrim." Another thing I'd like to point out is that the cost of repairing this theater has been allocated, because it was in a very bad condition, let's say physical, I would call it. Today, the theater is under intensive repair. And in order to celebrate his anniversary, I think the renovation will be complete by now. Because of this, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we are simply asking to clarify. I'm here for the stenographer: to the anniversary of the theatre, to host an all-U.S. classical festival.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u198	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u199	It's a classic song festival. Of course, I would like the actors to hear about this, of course, to be judged by their alternate titles, who, of course, deserved it. And open the theaters to his Jubilee. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u200	Dear colleagues, who insists on performing? No, it's not. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote as a basis and as a whole a draft decision taking into account the committee's proposals. [[Registration number 10216]] Please vote. [[19:13:19]] For 273 Decision taken. A draft decree on the 150th anniversary of the U.S. national anthem has been announced for consideration. Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u201	I must say, dear colleagues, that a great many of our fellow countrymen have somehow begun such a disdain. Let's say the committee is literally down, and as a writer, I'm down, with proposals -- everyone who's not lazy is trying to write a Ukrainian anthem. So far, there's usually no decent thing to do around here. Besides, I don't think that's the problem that needs to be solved today. Maybe. Someone has some pretenses that would like those words to be more modern, maybe more modern, maybe more forward, and sometimes I think. But I am convinced that today is not the time for us to be tied up in this, let us say, discussion. There's just an hymn. Something they might a little remind you of is "More Polish did not die!"although there is a much more flexible text than ours. But it's actually written by an amazing man, right here under Borispol the village of Chubinsk. This is the village where Chubinski was born. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I went up here to support your proposal that we not vote separately for this Order. I am convinced that we should mark this symbol of our state, at least one of the symbols, and perhaps even the most important symbol. And the fact that today, even our football players, and our citizens, when an anthem is singing, put their hands to the heart, you know, there's something so moving about it. And that's why I think we as statesmen have to support this decision and celebrate this anthem, tell our citizens how it was written and so on. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u202	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u203	Dear colleagues, I support the inseparable relationship between Paul Chubinsky’s work and the main text, the main song, the main melody of our country. But our colleagues who proposed the bill may have wanted to do it in advance. This is actually Paul Chubinsky’s Jubilee in January 2014. So it's obviously a creative approach, because we're actually celebrating the anniversary of the anthem in 2012 and Chubinsky in 2014. That's why I think it's more delicate for our lawyers and philosophers to work here, because there's still a little bit of time before Chubinski does.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u204	Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance anymore? I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance as a basis and in general a decision taking into account the committee's proposals, registration number 10244. Please vote. [[19:16:32]] For 232 Decision taken. Yes, Your Honor, it is suggested that you consider the Bill of 100th anniversary of Andrew Owl's birth. Any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u205	Please. Well, the committee head insists, so?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u206	I don't understand why. You voted to continue the job, we're going to continue it. There's a chance for people to be reminded. Do you think everyone today remembers the Owl? Well, why don't you take two minutes of this time? Well, that's okay. Because of this, you know, Ukraine is famous for its humor, and there is no need to convince anyone. We have a whole bunch of Ukrainian humorists and exes and today's, and Oleg Blackoguz. And I can call it, call it, call it, call it. We don't miss the humorists. Similarly, of course, since there are humorists, it is only natural that we have a whole school of readers, Ukrainian readers. Some claims may be made. Very often they scream in contrast to, say, Russian readers, who may have a more natural language than ours, not all. But there really is this trend, especially in self-reliance, the more you shout, the more you think it's passionate. But we do have Anatoly Palamarenko, the winner of the Shevchenk Prize, literally a classic, a reader. We actually have today, and I want to mention it from this rostrum, Neonila Krukov, the landlady of Sassa in Kirovgrad, the folk artist, the laureate, the amazing story, unfortunately, is bedridden today. But no matter what, even in a wheelchair she came to the Philharmonic and spent her creative evening. Andrew Owl in this row is his century. And I think it belongs to the Ukrainians to celebrate, to show some of his programs on TV, maybe to have some creative evening of his. I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u207	Puts the vote to the vote. Is there no objection? There is a proposal to vote on acceptance as a basis and as a whole of the draft decree marking the 100th anniversary of Andrew Owl's birth. [[Registration number 10298]] Please vote. [[19:19:01]] For 261 I'll take the order. Three more draft rulings. A draft decree on the 140th anniversary of Vasil Krichevsky's birth has been announced. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u208	The same would be true of this man. This is the beginning of the 20th century, when the revival of both Ukrainian art and Ukrainian spirituality started, and of the Ukrainian state. It really started. There was a whole series of amazing masters who are today adornment of the Ukrainian spiritual face, and this is Alexander Longzhenko, and this is Maxim Rilsky. In this play and Basil Krichevsky. I want to remind you that the museum we have today is a holy place, and today, by the way, marking the day of Taras Shevchenk's body being transported from Petersburg to Kiev, it was brought here to Split and in this church, which is now rebuilt, sent a prayer. And today he's 2 numbers by a ship called Cremenchuk. Taras Shevchenk's body, accompanied by his associates, the Ukrainian intelligence, was transported to Kanev and raised to this Taras Mountain. So the museum that we have today, Taras Shevchenka Museum, designed and formed Krechevsky, an outstanding Ukrainian artist, a modernist, an artist with such strong national feelings, I would say. Unfortunately, some of his frescoes are broken there, but anyway, he designed it as an architect of this museum. I also want to remind the Poles that in Poltava, you probably know, in the center of the city of this museum, today's amazing house, which is the decoration of Poltava, is also the work of Krichevsky. I'm not talking about his many artworks anymore. I think he deserves to be honored by both the arts and the authorities. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u209	Any other thoughts, suggestions? None. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft decision to mark the 140th anniversary of Vasil Krichevsky's birth. [[Registration number 10307]] Please determine by vote. [[19:21:38]] For 240 I'll take the order. A draft regulation on the 125th anniversary of Henry Neuhaus's birth is being announced. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u210	It is also a society, Kirovogradstina, central Ukraine. And Henry Gustavovich Neuhaus was born in Kirovgrad, finished his conservatory in Cologne, and came to Germany, a man of the world scale, but he made a huge contribution indeed to Ukrainian music, he is the author of many and musical works, and of course he was also a colossal and performer, as a result of which he was introduced by the Communist faction, Mrs. Demyanchuk Victoria. We support and the committee supports this draft decree, and you supported it in the morning by including it in the agenda. As a result, it remains to vote, indeed, to commemorate the man’s anniversary.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u211	Dear colleagues, no other suggestions? None. There's a proposal for a vote on acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Order to mark the 125th anniversary of Henry Neuhaus' birth, please vote. [[Registration number 10394]] [[19:23:08]] For 267 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider the draft decree marking 175 years from your birthday. From the birthday of John Nechuy-Levic. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u212	I brought this project consciously, understanding and believing that you would, of course, support it. Because Nechuy-Levitsky is a visit. To some extent, Ukraine's card, not only "Kaydashev's Family", but also a number of his plays. And Nechuy-Levitsky, in fact, started from him, as I think, with modern Ukrainian language, modern Ukrainian literature. And of course, the classic, its absolute classic of the Kaidash family, which many generations from village to town knew and loved. I'm not saying any more about his plays, "I love Boguslavka," which are still going to this day. I'm asking you to back me up. Man of light, good, from under Korsun. I think you're going to support it, and this is the anniversary we're going to celebrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u213	Dear colleagues, no other speakers? There is a proposal to vote on acceptance as a basis and as a whole of the draft Order marking 175th anniversary of the birth of John Nechuy-Levick. [[Registration number 10407]] Please vote. [[19:24:44]] For 268. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered all the issues that were scheduled for Tuesday, May 22. Please, Sergei Sass. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u214	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I wanted to draw your attention to the following. Most have decided to vote on all the bills. But only the Chief of the Supreme Council and the representative of BUT Yavorowski worked for the past two and a half hours. Please make the following conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m1.u215	Dear colleagues, I ask and conclude that the national deputies well prepared for the meeting, they studied all the documents in advance and were ready to make a positive decision. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work from 10 a.m. to Wednesday, May 23.
