ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:41]] It was registered with 425 national deputies. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleague Skoubenko Volodymyr Petrovich. Please welcome him and wish him good health and success in his political activities. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 14 March 2012. 19 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 1 law and 5 regulations were passed. One bill has been redrafted to redraft the subject of the law of the legislative initiative. 10 bills and 2 draft decrees have been rejected. Dear National Deputies, we discussed at the Conciliation Council yesterday the order and procedure for considering the appointment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine with human rights. At the same time, a meeting of the Conciliation Board raised questions about the initiative of two factions to change the membership of the Counting Commission. As far as I know, the committee was working on this issue. Is there a committee head? Please inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the decision you have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee at its meeting today, on March 15, discussed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Counting Commission on the Sixth Appeal to comply with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. [[tabled by Komar Mikola Stepanović, National Deputy of Ukraine, at number 10179]] The committee noted that the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was registered in compliance with article 92 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. At the same time, the Committee noted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine suspended its mandate on 21 May 2010 as a member of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Laryna Sergio Mikolaiovich, and at the same time ceased its mandate as a member of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee also proposed to modify the name and text of the draft regulation as follows: "On changing the composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Council of the Sixth Call", and paragraphs 1 and 2 of the draft decision, paragraph 1, of the draft decision, merge and make the following statement: "Pick together with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Counting Commission for the Sixth Call of the People's Deputies of Ukraine from the Party of the Regions: Kozuba Aleksandra Andriyovich in connection with the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Larin Sergio Mikolaiovich; Kasinuka Aleksandra Rostislavovich, after releasing the Ukrainian national deputy Piclusenka Aleksandra Mikolaiovich from the duties of a member of this commission; Mankovsky Grigori Volodymirovich, liberated from the duties of a member of this commission by the national deputy of the country of Sulkovsky Paul Gnatovich. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of the United States of Ukraine Sixth Call at number 10179 and to support it, taking into account the drafting of the committee's clarifications. In addition, the committee reviewed the draft Order 10179-1, introduced by the People’s Deputies of Stishenko, and did not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! So we have two draft regulations. One of the draft decrees by the People's MP, Mikola Komar, is supported by the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As well as the project proposed by national deputy Alexander Steshenko to call off two members of the Barwinenka Vitalia Dmitrovitch and Gacque Valerija Petrovich and to elect Kravchuk Vasil Petrovich and Schlemk Dmitr Vasilovich. That's why. Dear colleagues, one minute. That's why. Dear colleagues, one minute. So regardless of the committee's decision, I'm going to put two drafts to the vote. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u4	Well, now, one minute, well, wait, please. I will put to the vote two draft rulings in the order of their coming and registering, in accordance with the committee's consideration. At the same time, I think that the author who introduced the draft Decree 10179-1, Alexander Steshenko, has the right to argue the faction's position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u5	Honorable Presidium, distinguished fellow national MPs! The first part is well - argued, as set out by the chairman of the regulatory committee. But what remains surprising is that the requirements of article 17 of the Rules, which stipulates that the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council, whose mandate is confirmed and valid during this call, should correspond to that timetable of the real political forces represented and united in the Supreme Council. As you know, as you well know, they remain members of the Counting Commission, unfortunately, they are former members of our faction, but they do not have a mandate to represent the interests of the "BUT" faction of the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call. In order to confirm the legitimacy of all the actions that will take place today, I would like you to understand that in haste the decision was initiated by the majority, the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council, it is now being considered, so why not take into account the requirement, the legal requirement of a minority of parliament, which is united in the "BUT" faction, "Paternity"? Please consider these arguments and support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's put the first and second proposals to the vote. We talked at the Conciliation Council about these processes of addressing quota principles so that we don't get into absurdity, to redistribute representation, well, one minute, to redistribute representation in parliamentary international delegations, to represent committees and so on. And I, my dear colleagues, tell you again what I have suggested to go this way. To replace those who have left the Supreme Council and continue to work. But this proposal was not supported, so I have to put these decisions to the vote. I will be the first to vote, the draft Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call in an editorial session proposed by the committee with appropriate clarifications. [[Registration number 10179]] Please vote. [[10:09:54]] For 262 Decision taken. I'm drafting a decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Sixth Call. [[Registration number 10179-1]] The author is Alexander Steshenko, who just based his proposal on legislation. Please vote. [[10:10:33]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights. Honorable National Deputies, February 8, 2012, ended the five - year term for which Nina Ivanovna Karpachev, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, was appointed. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to be appointed as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. In accordance with article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, candidates for the post of Commissioner shall be submitted on a 20-day term from the day following the end of the term appointed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or at least 1/4 of the national deputies of Ukraine from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By February 28th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had made proposals for candidates for the post of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights from 125 national deputies of Ukraine, the deputy factions: the Yulia Bimoshenko-Batakshina bloc, the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" block, which had been proposed by Evgenija Yuhimovich Zakharova, as well as 124 national deputies of the Party of the Regions, who had proposed the nomination of Valeria Volodymyrovna Lutkovska. According to part two of article 208 of the Rules, on the basis of the documents received from the committee that dealt with the issue, I have submitted that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in plenary meeting, should consider these nominations and decide on the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the human rights of one of the two candidates by secret balloting. The relevant materials that are regulated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on this subject are given to you by your fellow believers. We agreed at the Conciliation Council that there would be such a procedure within the Rules to deal with the matter. In order to provide information from the committee, up to 5 minutes, for each candidate and to answer questions from the deputies, respectively, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, and 5 minutes, for answers to questions, then statements by representatives of the MP factions and groups, and then we invite the Head of the Count. One minute, the question is being considered within 45 minutes. So, honourable national deputies, in order for us to maintain regular cleanliness here, I am voting on the motion to approve the procedure for consideration: for a report from the committee head of the committee, five minutes, for candidates for the post of Commissioner for the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, five minutes and, accordingly, the answers to questions from deputies, five minutes. Then come out from factions and groups. If there's any help, help. And then we go to listening to information from the head of the Counting Commission. I'm voting on this agreed proposal. If it is not supported, we will discuss it. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Forty-five minutes. There's nothing I can do. I'm not limiting. I am voting on the proposal of the Conciliation Council, which falls within the framework of the Supreme Council Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please. I'm begging you! [[10:15:22]] For 268. Decision taken. Let's have a head. Please give the factions one minute at a time. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Then Sergei Sass. Well, I'm not. What are you, respectable fellows?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u7	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm in accordance with the Rules. During the gathering of signatures to support one of today’s candidates, we saw that there was pressure from the authorities on the deputies of the respective factions. Moreover, a violation of article 5 of the law, which clearly states that there should be an experience of law enforcement, was not to be included in the ballot papers at all. As a result, in accordance with article 37, part 5, of the Rules, I propose to change the voting procedure to a secret electronic system without fixing the results of the vote from the question of including Lutkowski's candidate in a secret ballot. This cannot be done in a different order than you suggested, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I ask you to consider this position when we are. Let's get to it for inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm giving an explanation for Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin's proposal. Well, first of all, we agreed on the Conciliation Council that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will vote in favour of the form and content of the bulletin. If it supports the form and content of the ballot, then all questions will be removed. And the content of the newsletter is the names of the people who should be in it as decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that's the first. And the second, unfortunately or fortunately, is that we can't go to a secret ballot directly through an electronic system, because that would be contrary to the Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, which clearly stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is making decisions solely by ballots. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u9	Thank you. Sergey Sas, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I see, is now in such a tense situation, and the question is being considered once every five years. But I would still ask you to do the duty provided for in article 27, this is part one paragraph two, and to announce who in the Supreme Council is absent today for important reasons. This is your responsibility. Please announce the entire list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u10	I ask you to give me this list, the Secretariat, and I will announce who is not officially present at the meeting. And there are other proposals from factions? Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u11	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, the position of the Communist faction was confirmed that, in fact, this is a very difficult question for you to consider in your current proposal. So I don't think we should be distracted by any other proposals and their discussions right now, but we need to get to the bottom of this. Because we have a very large agenda ahead of us today that we will need to carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear national deputies, other non-acting factions, and groups, don't you insist? Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u13	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, from the mouth of a representative of the Fatherland, spoke of the fact that sometimes MPs spontaneously, inadvertently legislate. Well, maybe that's what Fatherland does. But what I want to say is that, in the sessional room, parliamentarians, however spontaneously, are making decisions, consciously thinking. And I think today's vote and today's decision will reaffirm Parliament's wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] You just did! Oh, the line! Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u15	Thank you. Sergey Sass, the faction “The Yuli Block of Timoshenko – “The Fatherland”. Mr. Chechetov has just made offensive remarks to the address of our faction regarding unthinkable decisions in the introduction of certain bills. My dear colleagues, I think the highest estimate of the unprofessional work of the Party of Regions represented by Chechetov in Parliament is the largest number of Presidential vetoes imposed on laws adopted on the initiative of the faction of the Regions. In six years, this has not happened. So I don't think we should talk about professionalism here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider the question of the appointment of the High Council for Human Rights. I invite the head of the committee, Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinski, to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u17	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues and all present! The Parliament was asked about the appointment of the Supreme Council for Human Rights in connection with the end of February 8, 2012, of the term for which Carpathian Nina Ivanovna was elected. The legal status of the post of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights is determined by the Constitution of Ukraine, by the special law and by the Law on State Service. In accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act "On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights", the Commissioner may be appointed a citizen of Ukraine who, on the date of election, has reached 40 years of age, speaks a national language, has high moral qualities, has experience in law enforcement and has been living in Ukraine for the last five years. On February 28, 2012, within the time limit set by law for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposals were received from the Ukrainian National Deputies for the nomination of the Supreme Council for Human Rights: Zakharova Eugenia Yuhimovich, Executive Director of the Kharkiv Law Protection Group; Lutkovska Valeria Volodymyrna, a government-authorized European Court of Human Rights. According to part four of article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, on March 3, the newspaper Vos Ukraine published information on the proposed candidates. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 6 March 2012 considered the nominations of the 125 national deputies of Ukraine, the 124 national deputies of Ukraine, and the 124 national deputies of Ukraine, the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and its conclusions on each candidature in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the absence of reasons that prevented it from taking office. As a result, the committee came to the following conclusions. "Zakharov's candidacy -- I quote -- Eugenia Yuhimovich meets the requirements laid down in the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights and there are no reasons that prevented him from taking office. The decision was supported by six national deputies, one against one. During the discussion of Lutkovska Valeria’s candidate Volodymyrna’s main topic of discussion was the issue of her experience in law enforcement. While some Ukrainian national deputies claimed that there was no such experience, others pointed out that according to United Nations documents, the State had the primary responsibility and responsibility to protect, promote and exercise all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and then work in state institutions in the field of human rights could be regarded as a legal activity. As a result of the discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies, two proposals were made by members of the Committee to conclude that the Lutkov Valeria Volodymyrical candidature was compatible with the requirements of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. First offer. Lutkovsky's candidacy meets the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights and there are no reasons that prevented her from taking office. This proposal was supported by 2 national deputies, against - 4, held – 1. The other one. Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrna does not have the experience of law enforcement, which is mandatory, provided by law, for the appointment of a citizen as the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights, and therefore she cannot claim this position. This decision was supported by four national MPs, against two, with a stay of one. I note that the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is voting on each candidate for the post of Commissioner, who have been appointed in accordance with the order established by this law and who have given their consent.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u18	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u19	And who agreed to go on a run. The candidate appointed is the one voted for by the majority of the Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for which an appropriate decision is made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u20	Thank you, sit down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now listen to the candidates for this high position of responsibility. I invite you to the rostrum of Eugene Yuhimovich Zakharov. Please. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished gentlemen of the people! I've been a lawyer for 40 years, 20 of them professionally. I believe that I have long learned the basic principles of law protection from my older friends, Larissa Bogoraz, Sergey Kovalova, Eugene Sverstuk, namely: the first principle is independence from power and from the political forces; the second principle is non-discrimination, i.e. protection of victims of human rights violations regardless of their political affiliation, from their beliefs, from race, color of skin, language, religion, ethnicity and so on and the third is the maximum honesty of information, namely, to speak only what you think and call things your names. And I want you to hear me today, because I only have five minutes. I want to say what I think is necessary as regards the situation of the human being in Ukraine and what should be the mandate of the Supreme Council for Human Rights. If, in 2005-2009, we have pointed out that the state's human rights policy is systemsless, chaotic and ineffective, then today we have to say, unfortunately, that the last two years of human rights are not at all the top of public policy. Today, article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the claim and protection of human rights are the primary obligations of the State. Because you can't help but see the trends that have gained power in the last two years. The first is the growth of poverty. Today, 1 out of every 4 Ukrainians considers themselves poor. And according to UN standards, 80 percent of the population of Ukraine is poor in European countries. The other one. It cannot be overlooked that, in response to the protests on this issue, it is evident that the State has significantly reduced social pay within its social policy, without dividing benefits and privileges and human rights, although the scope of human rights cannot be reduced. That is what the authorities are responding to today, in effect, by persecution and intimidation. Regrettably, after choosing the policy of political persecution of its political opponents and protest movements, the state does not want to go into dialogue with society, to hear his opinion, and to consider his position. This is a very dangerous trend that can exacerbate the situation in Ukraine. The third very serious trend is the destruction of the remnants of even the extreme independence of the court that it was. Since under the Act on Access to Justice approved by you, "On the Status of Judges and Judiciary" today, every judge is under the Damocles sword -- getting his release from office for violating an oath to the High Council of Justice, and actually becoming a hostage of political will and a doer of foreign will. I can give many examples when judges were given such information about their release for the adoption of totally legal and justifiable decisions. I want to remind you of what Augustine Happy said back in the sixth century that "a state without an independent court is not a state, but a pack of robbers." And this trend needs to be overcome, replaced. The authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights is, of course, to protect human rights in specific cases, which remains an important task. But today, when we have a situation that can be compared to a forest fire, there is no great point in fighting individual caterpillars on a particular tree, but we must put out the fire. Therefore, the Authorized One should raise significant legal questions before the Constitutional Court, using his right of constitutional application to the Constitutional Court. He should ask questions about the unconstitutional nature of individual laws that violate human rights, the threat of human rights in the actions of the executive authorities of local self - government, and so on. It has to work together with non-state law enforcement organizations and increase sharply by opening regional representations and specializeds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u22	Please, mike, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u23	The number of people involved. Finally, I want to say that I hope that I have been heard, to show you the last report that the seventh year together is prepared by non-state law enforcement organizations together, this is the 2011 report, and to present this report to the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u24	No, no, one minute. Eugene Yuhimovich, the question may be with the deputies. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Vladimir Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u25	Click to add and Please pass the word to Samuelnek Yuri Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u26	Yuri Samylenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u27	Dear Evgeny Efimović, I have been approached by the head of the Harkov Regional Union of Vorobiev Anna Zaharovna Military Mothers. And I would like to comment briefly on her question and I hope that you will give an exhaustive answer. Since 2000, the Kharkiv Human Rights Unit, led by Zakharov, has collaborated with the Kharkiv Regional Union of Military Mothers. Their representative co-chaired the Union of Military Mothers. As a result of such cooperation, real assistance and support, the Mothers' Union did not receive it. On the contrary, the Union has become a co-founder of a number of charitable and social organizations, which has only been known through the Internet. It is not excluded that the Mothers' Union has been used to obtain various grants. When the Mothers' Union discovered in 2006 how the name and status of their organization were used, it decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u28	Please make up the essence of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u29	Does this correspond to the reality of that??
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u30	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u31	No, that's not true, part two. We have really cooperated with this organization. Moreover, they, in fact, were in our office because they did not have their own, until they had an internal conflict, the organization split up into two. And what you've received is written by the representatives of Part Two, whose activities we've known nothing about since then. And the first part, the people who were in the part that was the Union of Military Mothers continue to work with us and continue to work on the same subject, namely, the protection of the rights of soldiers, which is a large number of examples.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u32	Yes, thank you. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach is transferring Popescu's right to raise a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u33	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Your Honor, you're a well-known lawyer. I have a question. You claim to be the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But as a well - known defender, you certainly had cooperation with the current acting ombudsman. Please tell me, if you had such cooperation, on what matters, and how did you achieve the goals you set when you raised questions about people in terms of protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. Yes, we had cooperation with Nina John Carpathian in various years, but she was and remained. I can say that we have repeatedly addressed Nina John Carpathian in cases where her intervention may have been beneficial and helpful to the victim of human rights violations. And I have to say, in some cases, she did intervene in such matters and her intervention, and it helped and helped the victims. At the same time, on some issues, we did not receive support, perhaps in Nina Ivanovna, there was another point of view from our suggestions. Well, for example, we've prepared two draft constitutional submissions to the Constitutional Court, which I personally handed over to her, but she didn't use them. Well, there's a lot to talk about in general about our cooperation. It's not a question of how I feel about picking it up right now. There's just no time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u35	Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u36	A distinguished candidate, if I do not change my memory, I think I have once communicated with you as a candidate, was in the second assembly of our Parliament. And I remember, at that time, we discussed extensively enough the issue of financing you and your organization by the Rebirth Fund of the famous international speculator Mr. Soros. Tell me, has something changed since then? Did you continue to receive money from Mr. Soros through his fund or was this practice terminated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u37	Our organization continues to receive grants from the International Rebirth Fund, which represents the Soros Open Society Foundation in Ukraine. I would like to say that, in my view, the activities of the International Rebirth Fund are extremely useful for Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian State as a whole. And I can only rejoice and be proud that the Rebirth Fund supports our projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u38	Irina Heratschenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Mr. Eugene, please tell us how we can all together stop those tortures in the precincts that are now in the militia that are currently in the detention cells, how they are being abused, including the leaders of the opposition, Timoshenko, who is always in a light cell. And two more important questions. How can we solve the problems of domestic violence that our society does not pay attention to today, and we know that more than 50 percent of women suffer from it, do not talk about it. And the third question I just wanted to draw your attention to is what's going on in Ukraine with the mentally ill. We know that this is not done at all, including the Authorized, unfortunately, little has been done with human rights. These mentally ill people are simply surrounded by vegetables in hospitals and begin to do so with children of seven years of age. How can we stop this? Thank you. I'm sorry for the three questions in one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the legislative body, can have a significant impact on the solution to all these problems that exist. For example, if you can adopt a quality draft of the new Criminal Procedure Code, it contains a lot of standards aimed at preventing torture and ill-treatment. And if you remove the contradictions that were left in the project after the first reading, during the second reading and the third reading, there will be a law that will help this. That's the first one. The other one. National preventive mechanisms should be developed in accordance with the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture, which Parliament adopted in 2006. This is true of psychiatric hospitals and places of deprivation. Once these institutions have ceased to be entrenched, there will be an immediate opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u41	Please, the microphone. Finish the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u42	and thus contribute to the improvement of this issue. Once again, the third is the independence of the courts and the possibility of allowing the courts to be free in their decisions regarding the selection of a precautionary measure, the extension of the term of detention in custody, the approval of justifiable sentences, because today only a judge is afraid to pass such a sentence, even when he is certain that a person is innocent, and he is punishing a lesser one to take this into account. I mean, it's a necessary set of measures to solve these problems, and one of these measures is to create an atmosphere against the impunity of those who assume illegal behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u43	Thank you, Eugene Yuhimovich. Have a seat, please. Thank you. Welcome to the rostrum of Valeria Volodymyrovna Lutkovsky. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u44	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear National Deputies! Since 1999, when I began to engage in the European Court of Human Rights and, in fact, representing the interests of the State, I have divided my tasks into four main groups of functions: firstly, representing the interests of the State before the European Court of Human Rights, secondly, a very important function – implementing and effectively implementing the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Ukraine, and also providing information on the rights guaranteed by the Convention on Human Rights to the citizens of Ukraine, because it is not possible to effectively defend their rights in the event that you do not know how the rights are guaranteed, firstly; secondly, how to protect them, and also to provide information on the practice of the European Court of Justice, on the requirements of the European Convention with Human Rights to Judges and other bodies that should apply the Convention in their activities. In connection with this activity, a large number of meetings with citizens have actually been held, a great deal of work has been done in preparing judges to use the practice of the European Court of Justice as a source of law, as noted today in the Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. In addition, a number of seminars were held with prosecutors and law enforcement officials to tell them what kind of actions lead to human rights violations in Ukraine. But all of this and all of the legal aid that was provided to citizens and the legal aid that was provided to judges and law enforcement officials would actually be insufficient if we did not implement and effectively implement the European Court of Human Rights. In particular, a system has been set up to address the issue of payment of fair satisfaction, i.e. payment of budgetary money, is not at all a problem for citizens who win cases before the European Court of Human Rights. They can practically automatically receive the money they are awarded by the European Court of Human Rights. In addition, here in this sessional room, I have repeatedly presented draft laws that have just been designed to effectively implement the European Court of Human Rights decision. I hope that these same laws, supported by the Ukrainian Parliament, have helped improve the human rights situation in Ukraine. In addition, a considerable amount of work was done in connection with other responsibilities that I had as a member of the Ministry of Justice. In particular, regarding the preparation of legal aid agreements in civil, criminal, and subsequent cases, they were supported and ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament with various states. After these agreements became effective, there was a different stage of work to explain to Ukrainian citizens how they could make effective use of these treaties or international conventions to which Ukraine had joined. In office of the Human Rights Council, I would like to identify a number of key issues that require special attention for today. The first question is the question of a report and an effective report by the Human Rights Council of the People's Parliament of Ukraine. This report should be given once a year, but it seems to me that this report should contain an analysis of what legislative acts, why certain human rights violations are involved, and what the Ukrainian Parliament itself needs to do as the legislative branch of power in order to correct those violations that exist today in the laws. Moreover, it seems to me that the Human Rights Council-designate should become a mediator in the resolution of a conflict between a person and a state. And it's the middleman who has to give the state appropriate guidance on how to act so that it doesn't violate human rights. It seems to me that this is the main task of the Authorized Human Rights Council, except, of course, the solution to the competitive issues, the specific complaints that Ukrainian citizens are addressing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u45	Yes, dear colleagues, please sign up for Valeria Volodymyrna. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Basil Hara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Mikhail Vasilevich Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u47	Mikhailo Chechetov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u48	Valeria Vladimirovn, we have put forward your candidacy for two reasons, one, we know you as a professional lawyer, very highly qualified. But there is a second major reason that has led to your nomination. You are a politically uninvolved lawyer, a politically uninvolved man. [[B in m in s a l in]] You are equal to all political forces and do not serve or pray to political parties, but serve the State and people. I have a specific question, answer yes or no. Are you still going to be a politically unattractive person? [[B in m in s a l in]] Will you continue to be equal to all political forces? Yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u49	Thank you very much, Mikhail Vasilovich, for that question. I would like to say that, in fact, I have been a co-worker of the Ministry of Justice since 1995, with a break of eleven months, I worked with representatives of various political forces that led the Ministry of Justice, with Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, with Mikola Vasilovic Onichuk, with Alexander Vladimir Lavrinović, with Susan Romanovna Stanik. And actually, my professional position never depended on who was in charge of the Justice Department. So thank you for asking. I want to confirm that objectivity will continue to be maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u50	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u51	I ask you to pass the word to John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u52	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Valery Volodymyrna, in your speech, you stopped at your work, which is also related to the European Court of Human Rights, and you spoke on the side of the state. I have this question because your competitor, he also had relations with the European Court of Human Rights, because he represented citizens there, the first question, was there cooperation between you and your competitor, and what was it like? And the second question is, why don't you give us a couple of examples when you were defending the interests of the citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u53	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. As far as cooperation is concerned, you know, I have a very uncomfortable situation today because we are not competitors with Eugene Yuhimovich Zakharov, we are thinkers, we are ancient partners on issues, maybe even, of defense. But just everyone was doing these things in their own sphere and actually in their own position. As to whether there was cooperation with him as a representative of the complainant, rather than with him, it was with the representatives of the Kharkiv law enforcement group. Of course, cooperation was, especially when the European Court of Human Rights ruled. Accordingly, the applicant’s lawyer has the right to appeal to the Supreme Court of Ukraine in such a case for the Supreme Court to review all decisions previously taken and to refer the case to the court of the first instance. In that case, we explained the European Court of Human Rights’s decision. And I hope that, in this case, our cooperation has been completely effective and we have actually been looking for results, as of today, this is already the normal practice of the Supreme Court, which adequately implements the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. As far as I'm concerned. As to how.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u54	Shishkina, please, faction "BUT is the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u55	Please give the floor to colleague Bondarenko Oleni Fedorovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u56	Olena Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u57	Dear Valery Volodymyrna! The vast majority, according to a recent estimate of 95 percent of Ukrainians, believe that there is no justice in Ukraine. Do you think that justice in Ukraine is really in line with the laws, with respect to human rights, and in particular with regard to Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, and other political prisoners? Do you feel that they have not been subjected to violent human rights violations, that they are not subjected to torture and torture while in prison, and that the authorities are not dealing with their political opponents? Please give this answer as a person who, as an agent in the government, in the European Court of Human Rights, claims to be a Human Rights Commissioner. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u58	Thank you so much for asking, Olena Fedorovna. As far as the first part of your question is concerned, I can say that today the problem of justice in Ukraine is not really solved to the end, and there are many problems that need to be solved. This is certainly true, and if anyone claims otherwise, do not believe him, he is lying. Now, as far as the second half of your question is concerned, I would like to remind you that as of today, I'm a government official, I have a conflict of interest, I can't answer that question right now, so I'm sorry, I'll give you the answer when you decide to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u59	Jaroslav Kenzior. The right to speak is passed on to him, the last question, by Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u60	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Valery Volodymyrno, as a human. Valery Volodymyrno, I'm here. As a human being, it's very difficult for me to understand how a person, especially you, who to this day is in a figurative sense the prosecutor of a state in the European Court of Justice, where you stand for the interests of a state that clearly violates the constitutional and other rights and freedoms of a citizen of Ukraine, and here in a day you have to become a lawyer for those you tried yesterday. Why do I say that? For example, I have a summary of the Lucenka case before the European Court of Justice that you have done. Your conclusions. The government believes that a claim like this should be declared inadmissible by a court of law. In this case, the applicant’s rights were not violated. The government claims that the complainant’s deprivation of liberty was in line with the goals envisaged and so on and so forth. [[B in m in s a l in]] For, for, for, for,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u61	Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to calm down, fellows of honor! Please, Valeria Volodymyrna. I've read all this stuff, all of it, I'm asking you. Answer, please. Valeria Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I would like to point out that any person suspected of committing a crime, even if there is a public opinion about this person, is still entitled to legal protection. That's the first one. Secondly, if this is about actually the observations that were written. Furthermore, I have always believed and continue to believe that the position of the government-authorised European Court of Human Rights is not only in that and not so much in representing the position of the state of Ukraine in the European Court of Human Rights, but in order to implement the decision of the European Court, which is to be built on the basis of a bilateral position. Because in any case, for the European Court to be effective, it has to have two objective positions: the position of the applicant and the position of the state. And when this position is formed by the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u63	Please, the microphone. Valeria Volodymyrna, are you all right? Thank you. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, we now need to organize factions from factions. I'm asking the factions and groups to sign up. It's a recording. Please, the names of the national MPs, Vladimir Karpuk. Who will act? Jaroslav Kenzior, please be followed by Peter Simonenko. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u64	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, we are indeed solving a very important issue for Ukraine today: the election of the Commissioner for Human Rights. This position has become extremely important in Ukraine and outside Ukraine in recent years, as it reflects the state of protection of democratic rights, the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens in the world. That is why it is extremely serious to approach the selection of this candidate. It was not by chance that I asked this question, Valérie Volodymyrni, because I was addressing her on one case: unlawfully, totally without basis, sentenced to life imprisonment by Vladimir Panasenko. I asked what you represent, and there's a complaint from the family, Panasenko's lawyers in the European Court of Justice. And I think maybe someone will understand, get to know the case and be, to some extent, authorized by the government to defend the interests of the government there in court. Valérie Volodymyrna gently told me that there is no advice, there are judgments, and so on. So I'm going to keep going. I have further doubts about the example that Mrs. Lutkovska at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, when he considered the application of the Authorized Human Rights to recognize the indexed labour savings of citizens by their property, she appeared before the Constitutional Court denying this right of citizens. To the honor of the court, the right of citizens to savings has been recognized, and the state has made a commitment to their return. Such activity is not legal. And I repeat that man is not a computer, and it cannot be that yesterday, as it were, he was performing one function, and today he switched on, as it were, a button and it would be the opposite function. And the answer to the questions is, look at Zachary's answer, he clearly called the violations specific by the government, by the Ukrainian authorities and so on. Valery Volodymyrna says she is unable to answer a question today. And I believe that without the experience of law enforcement, as our Rules and the Constitution require, this person is not allowed to go to this position at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u65	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist faction. Valery Bondick will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! We believe that when discussing a candidate for the Human Rights Commissioner, first of all it is necessary to determine what tasks the candidate faces, to what extent should the constitutional body, such as the institution of the Ombudsman, be given the maximum attention? Regrettably, to date, the work of this body is mainly the registration and statistical treatment of complaints of violations of their rights and freedoms. The work of the Commissioner's Institute has been unwarranted in the face of so-called resonance cases. At that time, both SIZO and the militia and the colony are being visited, and hostages are being sent to Africa to be rescued. It's all right and necessary. But there is one but the units are getting the same attention, and tens of thousands, as they were, remain at the broken trough. Thus, it is a real question of whether this institution should exist at all. Therefore, once again, the main task before us is to ensure that the Ombudsman's institution does not serve as a widespread abuse and violation of the rights of workers by oligarchs, corrupt officials and workers in pursuit, but in fact to protect the rights of a simple person, so that pensioners do not die from standing in order to pay subsidies, so that hundreds of children do not spend every year in poor products, so that people do not fall on the tracks like in NovoAlekseevka, protecting their jobs and their families. We strongly believe that the basic principle that should be at the heart of the work of the Human Rights Commissioner Institute is the principle of justice. We must not sit at sea waiting for weather and counting, as many complaints as we have received, to go to businesses, to resorts, hospitals and clinics. By the way, distinguished colleagues, I think there is every reason to say it specifically. What human rights do we refer to in Ukraine when 83 kopecks are allocated to the treatment of one patient per day? Which one of you, I turn to you, wants to be treated in these conditions? Where's the Commissioner then? Why is the Commissioner silent and not defending these rights today? Schools and kindergartens. Have at least one of the processing companies that delivered non-quality products to kindergartens, schools, and children? Where is the position of the Ombudsman? We must go to people and take the initiative to warn them of violations of civil rights and freedoms. After the privatisation of the Zakarpata region, mass disconnects began today for those who supply water to residential buildings where we have people living. The Human Rights Commissioner must become an effective people's control over an official, an effective defender for our citizens. The Company's faction hopes that the new Commissioner, regardless of his name, will be guided by the principles that I have set out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u67	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Catherine Vaschuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the honourable Presidency, the faction's decision has been determined by the candidacy of the Commissioner. Although I would like to point out that we do not consider the unworthy candidates represented here in this bed. First of all, we think that any state, by setting a goal, to guarantee the rule of law and to protect citizens' rights, must create conditions for the rights of even minorities to be heard, and for a balanced balance to be struck between the activities of the rule of law and the protection of citizens' rights. Because it's not a secret of the circumstances that sometimes, unfortunately, in a state of law, the system of protection or not the first human rights violation. And here we believe that the position of Commissioner, the constitutional office of Commissioner for Human Rights, is primarily the right approach to the protection of citizens' rights. Reporting work, citizen reception work, even work with the right to be heard by the President of Ukraine, performances in Parliament. All these requirements for the Human Rights Commissioner, which we have expressed on the factions, should be reproduced, not by declaration, but in practice, by the European protection of human rights. We believe that any candidate who will be elected, and the faction has decided to choose the Lutkov Valeriy Volodymyrna, to represent the state in international relations. I think the experience that Mrs. Lutkowska has received in European institutions will benefit her, because it is primarily the authority of the state. And work, close cooperation and close work with Parliament will help to bring quality to any initiative, including constitutional application to protect citizens' rights. So, dear colleagues, I would like to say that the legacy that comes in is interesting, it's very systemic, left by Nina Ivanovna Karpachov. And we think that being in Karpachov's position is a worthy legacy for any Commissioner who will be elected to Parliament is just continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u69	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be Valérie Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! When we adopted the Law, in this Hall, "On the Authorized of Human Rights," we all understood the great role that this person has in our Ukraine. And to honor, unfortunately, there is not today in the hall, the Ninas of John Carpathian in many ways have been made a large and structured institution, and everyone in Ukraine knows that they are authorized by human rights. As in every job, we need to say thanks to Nina Ivanovna for building up the institution. Two candidates are represented today. We believe that both are worthy, and in addition to a great deal of knowledge of legislation, knowledge of the possibilities and obligations of the Human Rights Commissioner, each of these people must have a great heart, a heart that feels, will respond to the most intensely, to human pain, to the mutilated human destiny. That is, what a high title authorized by human rights! So when we choose a candidate today, we need to think carefully. These are the criteria that will guide our faction in voting for man. We want the Commissioner to have more contact with the Supreme Council, with the National Deputies, so that the Human Rights Commissioner can be present in the areas to organize people's receptions, so that people can be more accessible to the premises of the Human Rights Commissioner, there are not so many major obstacles and protections that often prevent a simple person from entering the Authorized by its rights. And as a command from our faction -- whoever is not elected today, this title of the Commissioner of Human Rights should not be compromised in Ukraine, but raised to an even higher height. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u71	Valerius Kamchatny, group of Reforms for the Future. John Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the MP of Reform for the Future joins the thought expressed by our colleague, the previous speaker, and urges the Parliamentary Hall to thank you for your many years of fruitful work in the office of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, Nina Ivanovna Karpachov. We know that its name is linked to the actual establishment and development of a new legal system for the Ukrainian legal system of the institution — the Ombudsman’s institution. Nina John’s efforts have saved thousands of lives and even the lives of people who have been unjustly condemned, unjustly deprived of their jobs or property rights, who have been subjected to violence and even taken captive by the pirates. Such loyalty to the protection of human rights deserves the words of the most sincere appreciation and respect for both the individual and the professional. At the same time, according to estimates from international social organizations and legal institutions in Ukraine today, the human and civil rights situation remains rather alarming. The European Court of Human Rights puts our state in a triad of leaders for the number of relevant violations. Such a well - known international law enforcement organization, Human Rights Watch, in its 2011 report, noted a drop in confidence in the courts in Ukraine. According to the organization’s experts, Ukrainian media have often faced increasing pressure from the authorities, and there has been a tendency to prejudice law enforcement officials against hate crimes, racial selectivity, hate crimes against members of ethnic and religious minorities. According to Ukrainian defenders, one of the key human rights violations, and here we agree with one of the candidates for this position, poverty remains. According to the annual report of the Human Rights Protection Organizations, a quarter of the population in Ukraine consider themselves poor. In view of such conclusions regarding the election of the Human Rights Commissioner, we need to adopt an extremely balanced decision. In our view, this post should embrace a person who has made a responsible and important contribution to the cause of justice, has considerable authority and is known not only in Ukraine but also in Europe, especially in the countries of the European community, where human rights and freedoms are unconditional and fundamental values that are at the heart of modern European civilization. We will also consider the candidate’s ability to meet modern challenges. In addition to highly professionalism, in our view, human qualities will be equally crucial: capacity for compassion, carelessness, respect for Christian values, active public position, persistence, and even courage. We have every reason to expect that the Human Rights Commissioner.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u74	will be chosen most effective, from the point of view of protecting the interests of man and state, the candidature.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u75	Thank you. Victor Terrence, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u76	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. First. The clear conclusion of the committee is that Lutkovska has no experience in law enforcement, which is mandatory, provided by law, for appointment to the position of Commissioner, and therefore cannot claim this position. This is the clear conclusion of the committee. Indeed, it was rightly said here that Mrs. Lutkovska was the Authorized Government in the European Court of Justice, that is, in fact, the Prosecutor. So it's not about law enforcement, it's about the other way around. The nomination of her to the Human Rights Commissioner is an extreme cynicism of power that wants to bury this office. Mrs. Lutkovsky’s professional course is closely linked to the minister of justice, Mr. Lavrinovich. She worked at Lavrinovich and Partners, whose customers were large financial cooperatives and once again big money, Lavrinovich, business is quite different from protecting human rights. The conclusion of the committee was also made by Doctor of Legal Sciences, Judge Vladimir Butkevich of the European Court of Justice Marina Stavniczuk, a member of the Venice Commission, and others, but the Supreme Council took a twirling hand in hand because Viktor Fedorovich had been identified. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and his distinguished colleagues! I'm not the only one working on the Human Rights Committee. And it's happened once and for all that we've rejected any nominations when there's been a violation of or any other procedure, that there's no age rating, or that, like Kirichenko and never, ever since the committee's decision, he's been on the ballot. Today what we do is a shame, it's a terrible violation of the law. And there's only one thing we haven't done on the committee. We need to talk more about the moral qualities of Lutkowski. She was talking about her fighting for the execution of the rulings of the European Court of Justice. But good people, this is the area for which Lutkowska really is responsible. 97 percent of the decisions of Eurosud in Ukraine have not been implemented. 97 percent! And its authorities are pushing it to prevent a decision from being made on Julia Timoshenko as well. And we are convinced that it will be just. But Lutkovska will do her best not to be solved. She was talking about poverty. Well, my friends, we're dealing with poverty issues by the Rybakov MP, as far as I can tell. Yeah? And I think next time we'll be offering it to the Ombudsmen. But. The authorities stubbornly push Lutkowsk into this position because it will bleach the border dictator at all crossings. And the last. I've got signatures in my hands -- signatures for Mrs. Lutkowski. This is just the signatures of the Party of the Regions. From the regions. There are no Communists, no communists. I want to ask you what the legitimacy of this person is going to be. Zero. What confidence in society will there be in this authorized one? Zero. Therefore, no one who respects himself needs a voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! Discussing the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] 30 seconds, please. What are you yelling at?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u78	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! You are now hiding important information that has an impact on the election of the Commissioner for Human Rights. One of the candidates is presented to us as a great advocate of human rights. I want to say that this is a lie, and on the contrary, this candidate, Mrs. Valeria Lutkowski, is one that violated human rights. A specific example. It was directly involved in Bill 9127, which the government wanted to abolish the social rights of the 27 categories of Ukrainian citizens. This bill caused a social explosion in the country. Because of this bill, the Supreme Council was attacked, the Kabmin and the President's Administration were unfortunately not taken. But the person who initiated the parliamentary bill on the social genocide of millions of Ukrainian citizens cannot, as it were, be a proponent.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Now, my fellow Members, in accordance with article 208 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 5 of the Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints the Commissioner for Human Rights by secret balloting. In order to hear all the organizational points, the word is given to the head of the Counting Commission, Mikola Haritonovich Shersun. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u80	Dear Chairman Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished presidency, distinguished colleagues, distinguished contenders! In order to organize a secret ballot for appointment, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine would have to hold the first meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me remind you of the composition of the Military Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its sixth vocation: Shershun, Viezivski, Shago, Barwinenko, Biruk, Bondarenko Olena, Gacko, Gordijenko, Grimcak, Kasianuk, Kozub, Komar, Mankovsky, Final, Oilynik Viktor Stepanovich, Prokopchuk, Stoyan, Dry, Tkak. I now request members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Counting Commission to meet in five minutes in the room number five in the third floor towers, above the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, the commission should hold a meeting, determine the form and content of the ballots, determine the order of voting. And I hope that after 30 minutes of your productive, hard work, you will inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine about our further actions. Naturally, the vote will take place at 13 am 45 minutes, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council. Therefore, we wish the members of the committee a successful job. Dear colleagues, now that we have essentially completed the first part of this consideration, the second part will be directly linked to the vote. Honourable National Deputies, two factions – the “BUT” faction, the “Fatherland” and the “Our Ukraine” faction, the National Self-Defense” in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, have filed an application for a recess and a statement. Who will act? Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u82	For a year and a half, opposition and its leaders have been persecuted and harassed in Ukraine. This is at the direct direction of President Viktor Yanukovitch with the hands of the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service and other forces. As a result of such illegal, politically motivated and criminal acts, Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko and other opposition representatives are unjustifiably condemned and imprisoned. Within six months of the serious deterioration in health in July, we demanded an independent medical examination by the leader of the opposition. All this time the proper treatment of Julia Timoshenko was not available, and more than that, during these long months, the authorities continued the daily abuse of the leader of the opposition, the long-term interrogations, the double arrests, the unique trials for democratic countries, just in the WHO cell. After six months of fighting, we finally succeeded in forcing the authorities to allow German and Canadian doctors to visit Yulia Timoshenko. Regrettably, the independent Ukrainian physicians were banned from participating in the examination. Throughout the work of the international medical commission, the authorities continued their usual practice of knowingly misinformation and manipulation of the health situation of Julia Timoshenko. At the same time, a number of high - ranking workers, such as the Attorney General of Pshonka, publicly committed themselves to ensuring proper treatment and strict implementation of the recommendations of independent doctors. Yes, on March 7, during a meeting with a delegation of German doctors, Pshonka assured him that if needed, Julia Timoshenko would receive the necessary treatment outside the Cachan colony. Yesterday, the defense of Timoshenko published part of the recommendations of the doctors of the German Charity Clinic. International experts have confirmed the severity and severity of Julia Timoshenko’s disease. It was pointed out that in the case of such treatment problems, Julia Timoshenko could only be treated under the conditions of a specialist medical clinic outside the penitentiary system and that the recommended treatment procedure was difficult. In spite of this, it has already been stated that even today’s heavy systems will be operated, such as a spinal cord. Clearly, it is not possible to do this in a cell and is incomprehensible and unacceptable. That's why our faction requires that we stop the torture and ensure proper treatment of Yulia Timoshenko, implement all the recommendations of the German doctors, particularly in the part of the comprehensive treatment in the specialized clinic of the right level, the qualifications, outside the penitentiary system. Stop the conduct of cases against Yulia Timoshenko on the basis of article 208 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code in relation to the state of the ex-Prime Minister's health, close false criminal cases and release the leader of the opposition. This statement by the faction was transmitted to Yanukovic, the Attorney General, and the Head of the Security Service. Juli will! Ukraine's will!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u83	In connection with the statement made by Sergey Sobolev, I ask the secretariat to prepare an appeal to the Ministry of Health, as well as to the execution of sentences, to provide appropriate information to know, as a minimum, the leaders of the MPs and groups, and if they consider it necessary, all the national MPs. Is there no objection? Please prepare an appropriate address for the Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to second-reading issues. The draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market is being announced for consideration. [[on calculations]] [[Registration number 9364]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u84	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 8 February 2012, reviewed the draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The text adopted in the first reading was based on 5 proposals from three national deputies, Kowsel, Romanyuk, Carmazin, and the National Bank of Ukraine, of which 2 are included, 2 are partially taken into account and one is taken into account in an editorial way. A comparative table was agreed with the experts of the National Bank of Ukraine, Minernergogil, NCRE and Naftogazu of Ukraine. Paragraph 2 of Part 1 is proposed to be drafted in detail to reconcile the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. And also for avoiding, ambiguous interpretation and applying a single terminology that is used in valid banking legislation. The adoption of the bill will prevent the diversion of funds that have come into the current accounts with a special regime of use from natural gas consumers and will not allow NAC Naftogaz Ukraine to be charged to natural gas operators in a timely manner. When the Scientific and Experimental Authority concluded that the implementation of this legislative initiative could have a positive impact on the state of the natural gas calculations, and similar positions were also applied to the calculation of electricity. As a result of the consideration and discussion of the matter. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft law on second reading and in general. [[Registration number 9364]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, all the amendments proposed by the National Deputies are taken into account. So we have every reason to put this project to a vote. A draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market is introduced to be adopted in second reading and as a whole as a law. [[on calculations]] [[Registration number 9364]] Please, Your Honor, vote. [[11:26:59]] For the 250. The law is passed. The draft Law amending article 22 of the Law on Heat Supply on the Transfer of Property, which is used to produce thermal energy, is being announced for consideration. [[Heat supply objects]] [[Registration number 9399]] He'll report again, Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk. Please. And let's do it as we speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u86	The text adopted in the first reading received 12 amendments, nine of which were adopted, three in part. I'll fix it. In principle, we have clarified the working order and there are no comments on these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, as amended. Amendments to Carmine Number 3. Overruled. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed, and I suggest, in a different way, that we put the first part. And I'm giving her an editorial saying, "In the event of a heat-supply organization being reorganised, the order of succession of debt for the electronics consumption of such a legal person is established according to valid legislation." It is motivated by the fact that the order of succession of debt for the consumption of the electronics of a legal person who stops is a separate case of general law enforcement. The legal obligations of such a person are set out in particular in articles 104 to 112 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. In my opinion, the definition of individual law enforcement legislation is only appropriate if these laws define certain features of such law enforcement, other than the introduction of a general rule of law by the Civil Code of Ukraine. The project does not define these specific features for the case. So that's what I'm proposing to take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u89	The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u90	Vote number three, Yuri Karmazin. [[11:29:26]] For-13. Correction not supported. Amendment 6th. Vladimir Olinick, insists on it? No, it's not. Amendment 10. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 10 refers to what I propose in part six to rule out the sentence first, namely: "the clearing of a heat-supply organisation is carried out in the absence of debt from the payment of energy consumers." I have also given full justification for this amendment and it is explained that this sentence is not in line with the second sentence of this part, according to which: if the value of the property of such an organization is not sufficient to meet the creditors' requirements, the heat supply organization is eliminated in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Recovery or Recognition of the Payability of the Debtor. I appeal to the National Deputies to support my amendment. Even though I realize it's hopeless, but still, I'm sounding it, and that's what happens sometimes, including to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u92	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I ask you to pay attention to the right column, there is a similar amendment to our distinguished reporter, and it reads, "the founder of a thermal or heat-generating organization in the event of a decision to eliminate it, ensures that the debt of such an organization is repaid to energy carriers." So it's actually settled. But if you insist, I will put to the vote the amendment in your formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u93	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u94	Don't you insist? Let's take it down. Yeah, well, then, Nicholas Prokopowicz, we're voting, right? Dear colleagues, it is up to the committee to vote on the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Law amending article 22 of the Law on Heat Supply on the Transfer of Property, which is used to produce thermal energy. [[Heat supply objects]] [[Registration number 9399]] Please vote. [[11:32:02]] For 253 The law is passed. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing for consideration the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the merger of joint owners of a multi-family house. [[Registration number 8474]] Reported to the Vice-President of the Committee on Housing, Construction and Housing and Regional Policy, Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the bill was adopted as the basis for the first reading on February 5, last year. The bill has been reviewed several times by our committee because of the need to reconcile the individual provisions of the bill with the drafter of the bill, the Cabinet of Ministers and public organizations. A total of 104 amendments were made to the committee by the national deputies, of whom 57 were included, and 45 were rejected. On February 22, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine gave an order to reconcile the last draft of the bill with a remark made by the Chief Legal Authority on February 20, this year. Today, all issues are agreed upon. And on March 14th, the bill was written by the legal authorities without notice. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you. Yes, we can vote in an article.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u96	There's some repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u97	Oh, yeah, no, I'm sorry. In addition, there is a technical error in those materials that are handed over to the deputies. Changes to 42 articles of the Codex earth 4 Instead of the editorial that you've been given, voted on the committee and accepted by the legal authorities in this way, I read. "The size and configuration of the plots where the apartment buildings are located, the buildings, buildings and accommodating areas are determined in the plan of the land-economy system of the inhabited site. The boundaries of such land areas are established by appropriate land-based documentation, which is the basis for land-building."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u98	Yeah, let's count it. We're going after the repairs now. Amendment number one. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u99	No, I don't insist, it's actually transferred, partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u100	What is the correction? Matchuk, microphone. Microphone! Matchuk, microphone. Turn on Matchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Regarding the 1 amendment, I have an offer to put it to a vote. Because I want to read it for everyone right now, just to be clear. "Early areas of land owned or communal property, where there are many apartment buildings, adequate buildings, buildings, and accommodating areas are provided for use, think, legal persons who operate this house or these buildings. Only those who live in this house — owners, joint owners — have the right to manage this land. Managers, the more legal persons who run this house, have no right to manage this land. This is in general contrary to the logic of the law, which aims to create conditions for the promotion, creation and functioning of OSBB. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u102	Please, the committee, rephrase your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u103	Yes, the position of the committee. This applies to the land of state and municipal property, where the not-created administrations -- OSBB -- are not. The committee therefore insists that this amendment be voted down in its original form.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u104	What's the amendment number?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u105	Amendment 3, oh, number 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u106	Let's go to the 5th Amendment. Just a minute. We'll be right there. Let's take care of this. That's Yuri Carmazin's fifth amendment, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u107	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u108	Once again, please make a proposal to the committee and I will put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u109	So we're going to leave it with the committee, because what our colleague is talking about, if we don't have a management body -- OSB, this day the land is in state or municipal property.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u110	So we're, you're suggesting no. Just a minute. I don't support the 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u111	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u112	But at the same time, there is insistence. I put it to a vote, 5 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u113	I haven't reasoned on it yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u114	The first amendment is the author who does not insist on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u115	You mean the repair of Carmazine? The committee turned her down, so you can confirm it? I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u116	The 1st Amendment of Yuri Carmazin was rejected by the committee. The author does not insist on it. But where is it edited, if it's written that it's rejected? What do we have different texts or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u117	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, speaking. You have rejected amendment number 5. Yeah? That's what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u118	Listen, Your Honor, I've been Vladimir Mikhailovich for 55 years, in the text you gave me, 1 amendment rejected. The text of the deputies states that it is edited. There are misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do it this way. I'm asking you now, let's put the question aside, find out, don't give away what you're giving away: one counts, the other doesn't count. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u120	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we didn't write you in the table of this item because the author doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u121	I say again, please find out this document so there's one document, we have different ideas, I can't work because there's a different document.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u122	That's one point, just him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u123	Please, I'll do it again, then we'll go back to him. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of social services. [[Registration number 8319]] Valeriy Suškevitch. Microphone, please. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u124	Thank you. National MP Suškević, faction of Yulia Timoshenko, head of the committee. Dear colleagues, your consideration is suggested in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of Ukraine's social services laws. 91 proposals and amendments included in the comparative table, of which 21 are rejected, 12 of which are in accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules, are taken into account in whole or in part. I'd like to point out, colleagues, that the committee's fundamentally worked out virtually all positions of first reading positions, because the first reading was sort of unsystemic and had a problem in implementing the laws of the future. But what's important is that all the work was in contact with the Ministry of Social Policy. And for today, we have 5 positions that are essential for social services to become the subject of the exercise of power today. Well, first of all, there are government standards and social standards for social services. The other one. I would like to say that the important factor that our electorates and public organizations have talked about is that today there is an expanded number of entities that provide social services and not only public but also nonstate. And that's important because there's a lot of public organizations that have the ability and expertise to provide social services. Third. Today, this bill strengthens the role and responsibility of local authorities in organizing social services. Four. A very important factor, colleagues, is that this bill creates a new concept of "social procurement" for the provision of social services and the mechanism for the conduct of social procurement. And last, the fifth. The issue of giving opportunities to people who are not entitled to free social services is settled, that is, depending on the income of the family, the pay for social services is differentiated accordingly. The chief legal office called for the bill without any notice. The committee suggests that it be accepted in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? A second reading proposal is put to the vote and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of social services. [[Registration number 8319]] Please vote. [[11:43:22]] For 334 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we now return to the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the merger of co-owners of the apartment building. [[Registration number 8474]] All the inadequacies or inconsistencies in this law have been identified. Please, as amended. 1st Amendment. Do you insist on voting to confirm it? Dear colleagues, the committee considered it editorially. At the same time, there is an insistence on putting her to the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to confirm amendment number one in the committee's drafting. Please vote. [[11:44:21]] For 235 Correction confirmed. 2nd Amendment. Are they insisting on her? Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u126	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. The 2nd amendment is very important. The fact is that the associations of joint owners of apartment buildings that are built in residential homes have the right to sing property, both for property and for the part of the land that is located here near the house and is designed to serve and satisfy other social needs. Some committee, no matter what. I didn't agree to leave the property of the owners of the residential property and to add not only to the maintenance of the house, but also to other social needs. For example, a sports course, a playground. Isn't that what the house needs? But they don't serve houses, they're for the social needs of citizens. Therefore, in the editorial work that was being published, there would have to be accepted, and then there would be no problems in general. Sadly, it was accepted that it was not to be owned, but rather to be owned by a union. And if the union disappears, this land is no longer owned by anyone. That's not right. So please accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u127	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u128	The committee insists on leaving it in the form voted for. Well, we discussed this in the presence of Vladimir Dmitrovich. Today, there is a very soft form that can pass so that the bill does not. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please do not support the amendment, but leave it to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, this is what we need to vote on. I'm voting on the proposal to confirm Amendment No. 2 in the Committee. What are you doing? If included in part, I'm voting for confirmation in the committee, we have to vote. What are you waving at? Once again, amendment number two, the committee counted it in part. The author insists on putting it to a full vote, but first the proposal to confirm the amendment to the committee, which is part of the committee. Please vote. [[11:46:50]] For 228 The amendment is included in the Committee's edition. Then it's amendment 5. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, in general, I think the committee has worked very well on this bill, but there are some differences, they remain for now. In part two, I propose that the word "joint owners" be replaced by "persons who are given this land to use." The point is that these changes are made in order to reconcile the position of part one and part two of this article, since part one provides for the transfer of the land where the apartment building is located, as well as the proper building, building, and instigating territory of the joint owners of the apartment building. While in part two of this article, the use of such areas in the territory is determined by the owners rather than by the ones to whom it is transferred, this may lead to misunderstandings in the practical implementation of this standard. That is why I asked them to consider my correction and not to hear why it should not be counted. Please, thank you, please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u131	So the committee proposed a version of this law in the form that only OSBB is transferred free of charge. Only OSBB. To all other legal persons, it can be used only in rentals.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u132	Amendment 5 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:48:47]] For-35 Correction not supported. Correction 8 Volodymyr Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u133	Which one? Please, Yuri Odarchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, the amendment of my colleague Maybearda makes the text that was proposed in the first reading edition worse. In accordance with its amendment, I ask you to listen carefully, citizens will only be granted ownership of the property within the limits of the building's equipment. So it's actually under the house, and the boundaries of the instigating territories are going to be set off with the inexplicably incomprehensible design of the documents. I would like to go back to the first reading, where the entourage was determined on the basis of plans for the distribution of blocks. Once you've taken the territory of the instigator, you're just going to destroy the OSB. Do not take away from people their courtyards! Please place this amendment for confirmation and I propose not to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u135	Yuri Vitaliyovich, the text, the one that brought Maybeard, reads: "The size and configuration of the land areas on which the apartment buildings are located, as well as the buildings, buildings and instigating areas, are determined on the basis of the relevant documentation and the structure. All of it! It's a normal correction, 7-a. There's no fencing. You read the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the right column. It's the right thing to do. Are you insisting on voting now? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The committee counted the 7th amendment. The National MP’s request is based on confirmation. Please vote. [[11:51:01]] For 236 Correction confirmed. I'm asking you now. One minute, Igor Volodymyrovich, we'll take a little break. The report is the Counting Commission. Please, we need to do this immediately. Head of the Task Force, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich. May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u137	Thank you very much. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There was a meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of the 20 members of the Counting Commission, all 20 were present at the meeting, that is, the meeting of the commission is valid. The Main Committee of the Supreme Council at its meeting approved this form of ballot for secret ballots. The ballot is made of salad paper in the form of a rectangle with a black inscription. Everyone saw it. Two candidatures were introduced for the secret ballot on the appointment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights: Zachary Eugenia Yuhimovich and Lutkov Valeria Volodymyrovna. If you support one of the candidates, you mark any of them -- there's a cross, a square in front of his name. If you do not support any candidates, make the box below. I also remind you that it is only necessary to make one mark according to your will, otherwise the ballot will be considered invalid. The vote will take place, listen carefully, from 13.45 to 14.45 in the second floor towers at the registration tables of Ukrainian national deputies. That's where the ballots will appear. Please have a national MP's certificate with you. Only by means of a national representative’s certificate will the ballots be issued. And I'm also asking that it be orderly for us to conduct this vote, let's say, beautifully. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u138	Please give me the bulletin, I'll put you to the vote for approval. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? We have a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the form and content of the ballot, that is, the list of names that are included in the ballot. I'll put it to a vote. What's the offer? One minute, I beg you, they will step away from the rostrum, your honors. The proposal cannot be considered because it is contrary to the law. Yuri Anatolyevich. [[B in m in s a l in]] So let me ask you, dear fellows, I will now put to the vote the first proposal of the Counting Commission, if not, I will make your proposal. Dear colleagues! The form of the bulletin to your name is shown, the contents of the bulletin: it includes two names. The voting procedure was announced by the chairman of the Counting Commission. I'm voting on the proposal to approve the form and content of the ballot, please vote. [[11:54:50]] For 268. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I'm leading you to a well-known vote at 1:00. 45 minutes to 14 hours 45 minutes. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich. Amendment 12. Better 8th now, Bondarenko, if he insists on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u139	We've already voted. We're past the 11th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u140	We voted 7th. 8 revisions. Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u141	I offered in article 42 two things that would really give the joint owners of apartment buildings a sense of ownership in this area. The language goes, first of all, that the act should be issued within a limited period of at least three months. At the same time, the committee does not set time limits for the issuance of land documents on this land area, and thus may not be issued for years, as is now the case. The second one I offered. That since the application was filed by the joint owners of multi-housing buildings, any activity with this land area has been banned. So her sale, rent transfer, change of some kind, restriction, cutting off from where the piece is supposed to be prohibited. So today, the committee is extending a decision that may not give out land for many years, and then it can just be punished and left behind only a vendetta around the house and everything. That's why you have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I'm putting 8 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:56:59]] For-46 Correction rejected. 9th, 10th count. 11th. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin. The point of the 11th amendment is that I propose in article 92 in part two, paragraph "g" after the word "home" to complement with the words "or another legal person who manages a multi-room house." I base this on the fact that there have been previous amendments to article 42 of the Code of Land, and this is done in order to prevent the narrowing of the circle of entities that can manage multiple apartment buildings, the property that is owned jointly by the owners of such a house, from acquiring the right to use it permanently. It is obvious, though, that the unification of joint owners of a multi - apartment building is not the only form of such a government. For this reason, others who exercise such authority may acquire the rights of permanent use of the property mentioned above. Thank you. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u144	The 11th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:58:23]] For-24 Correction not supported. 12th. Five. Don't you insist? No, it's not. 15th. Five. Don't insist. Bondarenko, 17th?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u145	18th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u146	No, it's not. 17th. 17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u147	In our table, it goes like the 18th, there's one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u148	I don't know what's in your chart.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u149	In the materials that are given out, 17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u150	17 amendment
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u151	On the auxiliary premises.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u152	So the point is that I made an offer to have the auxiliary general use facilities listed. Because there are so many cases today where these auxiliary facilities are passed on separately for some other purpose, and then the OSBB starts to fight for them. That's why the eastern cells, and the vestibules, and the passage locks, the extra-room corridors, the wheelchairs, the attics, the basements, the mines -- they should all be properly inventoryd, and the unification of the joint owners of the apartment house should have the full right to manage them. Regrettably, this question is not taken into account by the committee, and this detracts from the rights of joint owners of apartment buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u153	Amendment 17 deals with the vote that Bondarenko argued. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:02]] For-37 Not supported. Bondarenko, 19th. Maybe you've got an 18th room.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u154	Actually, it's a numbering collapse. But the point is. We've been issued with such different documents. This is the table that we have, the 18th amendment, which is that the inventory should be the same objects that I was talking about, these are the auxiliary facilities. And they, they have an exclusive list of what this house really is. And they have to be inventoryd at the time of the privatisation of the first apartment, so that they don't stretch until the merger is complete, so that they don't stay there at all as if on the balance sheet of this union in the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u155	Bondarenko's 19th amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:01:14]] For-40 The offer is not supported. Yeah, 23rd, Bondick and the rest of them, don't they insist? No, it's not. My beard is counted. They're listed as Pietovka. Declined, Carmazin, 29th. Don't you insist? 24th, let's see.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u156	29 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u157	I've got a 24th amendment to Maibeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u158	Well, counted, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u159	Another chart was given this morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u160	That's Karmazin's chart, you got another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u161	I got this chart this morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u162	No, no, it's 29th. Majobra's only on the 24th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u163	Somebody give Bondarenko the chart they gave us at the last minute. Okay. I've got 22nd, edited, Bondarenko, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u164	Not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u165	This table shows, okay, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u166	The language goes, once again, and once again, when it comes to what the plot is for, it's about, "to serve the housing complex." And I say, "and the satisfaction of other socio-cultural needs." The point is that there may be a playground in this area, there may be some sports grounds, there may be some kind of carpeting site, and so on. That's why it's not just for housekeeping, it's for social and cultural purposes. This editorial work should be introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u167	I bet she's in a new 22nd table, which is what Bondarenko says. Bondarenko's amendment, please identify yourself. [[12:03:22]] For-54 Not supported. Yes, Carmazin, 29th, does not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin. 29 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u169	Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin. 29 As far as article 4 is concerned. I propose to leave part five in the correct order. That is, "UNITATION can carry out economic activities to provide for its own needs either directly or through treaty-making with natural or legal persons." That's what I'm doing in order to technically clarify the position of the bill. Because the original edition of part five of this article is more accurate than the one now proposed in the project. Moreover, it has been tested at times and we see that it is perfectly normal. So I want to ask the committee representative, why couldn't she be counted and left behind what's already been tested? Not necessarily a new one is better than what has been tested at times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u171	29 puts Karmazin's amendment to the vote, please specify. [[12:04:56]] For 20 Not supported. 33rd, Bondarenko. Maybe you have a 32rd, please. But it is contrary to article 116 of the Rules. Please, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u172	There was another amendment, which is 22nd, and we talked about it, but we missed one. Now I've been given a new table, well, that table that's final. But there was another amendment that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u173	28th?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u174	was in the old one, in that chart I had in the morning, like the 30th, like the 30th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u175	30th Amendment of the Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u176	30 revisions. Well, she's in the table, she's discussed on the committee, she's concerned that the union of co-owners of apartment buildings can be created not only in one house but also in several. Only the committee believes that these houses should be united by common ground, by some engineering objects, and so forth. And we have cases where a group of multi-house owners is created from two halves or both sides of the street, such as adjacent microregions. There is no common land, but unity is created. That's why we have to give it a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u177	This is the 28th amendment. I'm putting her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u178	It's an association. No, that's how you create an association. What's that? What about inseparable property? Vladimir Dmitrovitch, you're an accomplished man.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u179	[[12:06:35]] For-56 Not supported. Yeah, we're not going to be 33 because it runs counter to 116th Rules, even here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u180	34th, 35th, 36th, 38th, the same way. 39th Amendment now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u181	39th Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin. 39. The amendment relates to the fact that I propose to leave paragraph 13 in force, namely, “The procedure and conditions for the conclusion of contracts between the merger and each owner of the apartment, the premises”, and I also propose that paragraph 15 be left in force, namely, “The procedure for admission into and exclusion from the unit”. I base this on the fact that the question of being a member of a multi-house owner’s union is one of the most important in their activities and without its decision to form a union of joint owners of a multi-household building and their activities will be significantly complicated, but that any legal person based on the union of individuals must be determined in the statute to accept and exclude them, since this is a guarantee of protection against baseless denials of their acceptance or unlawful exclusion. And that's why I'm proposing that we stay in line, as we're all used to, and so are the citizens. If there's a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u183	39th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:08:17]] For-35 Not supported. Carmazine, 42nd. Don't you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin. At the 42th Amendment, I propose that article 9 be left in the same line as it is now. For national MPs who don't remember it, I remind them that: "a member of the union may be a physical or legal person who owns an apartment or an apartment in a multi-room building. Membership in union is voluntary and can be acquired at the same time as the creation of a union in the establishment of the congregations, as well as individually on the basis of a written statement at any time of its existence. Membership of the union begins on the basis of the written application made by the owner according to the consent of the union. The way in which a union is accepted is determined by the statute. Membership is terminated on the basis of a written statement made by the owner of the premises or on other grounds in accordance with the statute. The owners of buildings located within one housing complex, which are not members of the union, can form a joint agreement on cooperation and action in common interests. ” Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u185	42 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:09:53]] For-41 Not supported. The 44th Amendment of Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u186	Yuri Carmazin. So I understand, Adam Ivanovich, that today's Rules don't work, we don't announce a break, or how do we understand that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u187	Are you going to argue with your amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u188	Adam Ivanovich, I say as the Rules say. And it says there's got to be a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u189	There'll be a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u190	I propose in article 10, in parts one, four and six, eight, ten, eleven, fourteen, fifteen, the word "founders" to replace the word "owners" with the corresponding differences. To that end, I am writing to harmonize this standard with the position of part one of the first article 6, according to which a merger can be created only by the owners of apartments and the indwelling premises of the apartment building. So the term "owner" is not used here. It's for the legal evaluation that I want to write this down. In part four of the sentence to the fifth after the words, "the order of the survey" should be supplemented by the words "the definition of its results." I believe that the absence of such a standard can lead to the formality of such surveys. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u191	44 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:11:24]] For-42 Not supported. 46th, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! My right is to allow the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to regulate the procedure for conducting a written survey of residents. This is one of the few cases in which the authorities have to intervene in the activities of citizens. If we leave the order for a ransom survey of the OSBB itself, it is possible that unclean ones will take over the house and cannot be disposed of. I have some examples where, because of the vaguely written survey mechanisms, the heads of the OSB have canceled the decisions of the general congregations on their own release, changed tariffs, and stolen common property. So this order needs to be the only one for the whole state, so that there can be no abuse. Colleagues, it's a completely non-political issue, and it's an extension of your government's powers. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u193	46th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:12:43]] For-49 Not supported. 47th, Bondarenko. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u194	This is essentially the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u195	Well, that's what we've already voted on, because it's an order of conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u196	We accidentally made the same adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u197	Thank you. Counted, accounted for. Bondick, 53rd, doesn't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] 52 readjustments included. They insist on confirmation. I'm putting 52 amendments. What, 48? What? Then say that. Yeah, 48's on confirmation. It's counted. Please vote. [[12:13:51]] For 205 Not counted. It's your business. 52 Maybeard correction counted. Odarchenko proposes to confirm it. Please, Odarchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this law, which is supposedly widely supported by the public, will lead to the destruction of our LHK. Instead of allowing OSBB the right to choose, the way to manage houses is simply to write houses off the balance sheet of residential offices and give them to OSBB. No major repairs, no documentation. The government just cheats people out of accounts and says, "Now do what you want. Many people have created OSBBs to control the balance sheeters to solve individual problems, but not to get worn-out houses without documentation with a stack of demands from different inspections. Now the state has decided to abandon these people and force them to remain alone with their problems. I'm asking you not to support this Maybeard amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u199	52 amendments to the vote. Please vote. For confirmation. [[12:15:21]] For 224 Unconfirmed amendment. 53rd, Bondick, Prutnik, the Plotniks don't insist. 53rd. 54th is counted. 55th, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support in my proposed revision, this amendment requires the constant transfer of the OSBB of houses to. the merger of the owners and makes it impossible for the former balancemaker to refuse. Now, there are a lot of cases where OSB is being formed, but they don't want to have houses passed on to them, meaning that they can still have a little bit of a basement sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u201	I'll put 55 on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u202	Article 11 considers Yuri Vitaliyovich. 11 Read the article, and it all counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u203	The 55th vote is amended. Please vote. [[12:16:32]] For-45 Not supported. 56th, Bondick and the others don't insist. 57th, accounted for. 58th, accounted for. 59th Carmazin, don't you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u204	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u205	Yes, Odarchenko, 60th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, my right is to have OSBB associations report to their members at least once a year. I don't understand what's wrong with it, and why can't people hear what these associations are doing to their welfare and protection, what are their costs spent on? I understand that my colleagues from the other half of the room are going to vote "against," because for this party the words "reporting, "responsibility" are swearing words that they fear and can't even pronounce them, but I ask you to put my bill to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u207	60 amendments shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u208	We have to write it in the statute of association.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u209	I'd like to make a statement. [[12:17:46]] For-56 Not supported. Five, 61st, no insistence. 62nd, Bondik. Don't insist. Maibeard, accounted for. 64th Bondick, don't insist. 65th, 66th. 67th, partially counted, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, this is a very serious amendment, and it foresees that house management contracts are to be concluded between three parties: the owners, the union, and the manager. Thus, both owners and associations will be able to protect their rights in court, to control compliance by the administrator. Without this norm, neither side will be without real protection. Tripartite agreements are an effective mechanism for the responsibility of the manager and for the real involvement of all co-owners of the house. Please consider my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u211	67th vote, please. [[12:19:00]] For-59 Not supported. 68th Bondick, don't insist. 69th, edited. 70th, editorially. Odarchenko, 72nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, I don't understand the logic of colleagues from the Party of Regions, they want us to have managers instead of the Jacks, but they deprive them of the right to collect debts for the provision of their services. So if the residents made a deal and then decided not to pay the manager for his work, he can't pay them off. Well, my amendment removes this situation. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u213	72rd vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:19:58]] For-57 Yes, Kovalova does not insist. 74th, counted editorially. Odarchenko. Don't insist.?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u214	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u215	Yes, please, Serbian, accounted for. 85th, Odarchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u216	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u217	Don't insist. My beard, Odarchenko. Counted. 88th, Odarchenko, editorial. Don't insist. Bondick, '89. Bondick, Maybeard, 93rd. What's that? 82nd, Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u218	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you are obviously also tired because you do not give or break legislation on work. Obviously, you too are tired.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u219	I'm taking you to sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u220	82nd predicts such an offer. Part one after the word "shared property in a multi-room house" by which to complement the words "which consists of general and integral property." In general, this will sound like it. The owners of apartments and nonresidential buildings in a multi - apartment building are entitled to a common property in a multi - apartment building, which consists of common and unspoiled property. It's very important in the civil law sense to write it that way. Because of this, I don't understand the logic of the committee that rejected this amendment, which is absolutely justified and it should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u221	The committee is invited to leave it in the first edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u222	82rd vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:21:59]] For-34 Not supported. 84th, Carmazin. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u223	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I also insist on a break. It's not good that we are. We could break free and accept the law peacefully, as provided for in this Rules. I'm going to leave part three in the current form, which is to write, "General property is shared in the ownership of the joint owners of the apartment building." You realize that right now, from the adoption of every law, people expect what a nuisance it will be. The Tax Code was adopted — suddenly the land and land areas that were near the houses rose from 3 to 7 times. I warned you it would be there. And now there are underwater currents all the time. So I suggest you leave it here as it's already tested, that's the whole point of your amendment. Please support her, despite the fact that people are tired.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u224	84th, vote, please. [[12:23:22]] For-27 Not supported. 88th. Odarchenko doesn't insist. 89th. It's not Bondik. Maybeard, '90s, counted. Bondik doesn't insist. 83rd, 94th. 93rd, Maybeard's readjustment is accounted for. My colleague Odarchenko insists on getting confirmation. I'm putting 93 amendments, which are considered by the committee, on confirmation. Please vote. [[12:24:05]] For 232 Confirmed. Correction counted. 94th. 95th. 96th. 97th. The 97th Maybeard amendment counts, Odarchenko proposes to put on confirmation. Please, Odarchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u225	Dear friends! Here, it's something called a bill, it used to be a clear procedure for renting premises in buildings run by OSBB, but our colleague deletes this procedure, and says it's not subject to regulation of this law. But he does not propose how to settle this issue in other legislative acts. So I'm asking you not to support Maybeard's amendment and leave the edition of the first reading. The lease procedure for OSBB is a very painful problem for millions of people and it has to be regulated. So I'm asking you to reject the amendment and leave it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u226	The 97th Amendment of the Maibeard Committee is taken into account. Stand by for confirmation, please vote. [[12:25:29]] For the 220. Not confirmed. 98th. Carmazine. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u227	Yuri Carmazin. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in article 28, part two and part three are proposed in the first reading. "The merger is eliminated in the event of the purchase by one person of all premises in a multi-room building." And fill in the second and third paragraphs: after this physical destruction or destruction of the housing complex, which makes it impossible to restore or repair the housing complex by decision of the court and by text. I mean, these are cases where unification is eliminated, and this essentially complements the legal part of this bill, and I would like to take it into account. I don't understand why the committee didn't do it. Thank you. Please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u228	98 amendments to the vote, Carmazina. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:26:49]] For-35 Not supported. 102 revisions. A hundred repairs. My beards. Counted. Odarchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u229	Dear friends, this amendment by a colleague of Maybeard is intended to ensure that a manager for non-OSBB houses is identified without a competition. Without a competition, it means by corrupt schemes. Colleagues, what are we doing? Why are we ruining an area that's barely working? We have to have a self-preservation instinct. If a collapse occurs before the election, you will not get five percent. If you want to be finally hated by Ukraine, vote for the Maybeara amendment. I'm asking you not to support her, my friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u230	100 amendments to the Maybear committee are included. It's on confirmation. Please vote. [[12:27:53]] For 213 Not supported. 102nd, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u231	Dear friends, my bill is to make sure that the stewards for the houses that themselves have failed to make the right deal are determined by the competition. If we do not, they will be served by the same Jackets that we have suffered for 20 years. Moreover, since the bill is not very balanced, it does not suit the interests of citizens and contains internal disagreements, I propose not to vote for it in general. I officially request that you put to the vote the proposal to accept it in the second reading without accepting it as a whole. Maybe by the time we read three, we can fix it somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u232	That's how all the other amendments went. Dear colleagues! That's how.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u233	There is still a proposal on the committee, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u234	On the committee, leave what you have on the committee. What we have in the table there is a vote. We're not voting!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u235	As a national MP, I'm asking you to go back to correction 52 and 48, and it didn't happen to count.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u236	Who's to go back to the 52 revisions? Please vote. [[12:29:22]] For 214 We're not back. It's left. And who's in charge of getting back to 48? I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:29:42]] For 217 We're not back. Thus, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the merger of co-owners of a multi-room building on second reading and in general. [[Registration number 8474]] Please vote. [[12:30:16.]] For 235 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry I didn't announce a break at 12:00, because we would have had such a conflict that we didn't finish the question, and then the judges would have to interrupt the question. That's why there's a break until 1:00. At 13 o'clock, we'll begin our consideration of the issues of appointment and dismissal of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u237	We'll continue our work. Now we have to consider the question of the election of judges. The rapporteur is Head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges Igor Leonovich Samsin. Please, Igor Leonovich. And invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u238	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of this Act. She also discussed the appeal of citizens, public organizations, businesses, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities, and local self - government authorities to the activities of candidates for judges who came to the Higher Qualifications Commission of Ukraine during the Commission’s consideration of the issue of recommending them. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u239	Project Rule 10185, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u240	To elect Tacius Larissa Vasilovna to serve as Judge of the Kharkiv Administrative Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u241	I'll bet on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u242	Questions!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u243	Where's the question? Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u244	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The representatives of the Party of the Regions tried to harm me by asking questions, but they couldn't. And my question is. Why am I today in the Hall, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, addressing you as the Head of the Supreme Council, who is to see to it that laws are observed in Ukraine, why is there no present in the Supreme Council Hall for the release of murderers, so-called judges, Vuka, and how is he, the second, Kyrieeva? Why are these sad judges, who are running political orders, who are illegally imprisoning people, why are they still not out of office? Why have they still not been held accountable? Why do they discredit our country in the eyes of world society and in the eyes of their own citizens? I'm asking you, when will Kiriev and Wolf be here? When will they be released? Answer the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u245	Thank you. The question was asked to me, I answer. When the Supreme Council of Ukraine amends the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations will determine that this right is exercised by the Supreme Council or the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if there are claims to a judge, I remind you once again, you have to go to the High Council of Justice, that is, and get an appropriate answer that would satisfy your problem, that is, you. Please. It's a draft decision on the election of the judge. Please vote. [[13:03:47]] For 257 Decision taken. Project Regulation 10185-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u246	Choose Dobrian Jaroslav Ivanovna to serve as judge of the district administrative court in Kiev on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u247	It's a draft decision on the election of the judge. Please vote. [[13:04:24]] For 257 Decision taken. Next project, Rule 10185-2, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u248	Select Ivanchenka Alexi Yuliyovich to serve as Judge of the Solonian District Court of Dnipropetrovsk. I would like to point out here that, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, we have further examined the complaint that has come. It is similar to that complaint to the content checked by the Higher Qualifying Commission. In fact, a complaint about the court's procedural activity, which does not apply to the competence of the Higher Qualifications Commission, but to the higher courts, so we recommend again and elect Judge Ivanichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u249	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Microphone. Do you have a question for the candidate?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u250	I have a question for the candidate. In order for me to be able to decide how to vote, I have a purely moral question for you, and it also becomes a judge. Please tell me, do you not envy a judge like Kiriev, who is taken from a small town in Berezan, who does not have the status of a judge forever, who is transferred to one of the most penal courts -- this is the Pecher People's Court, which is now accompanied by the Griffon, it's like the big bar that they're guarding today, as well as Judge Wolf, who is, say, the defendant himself, and he's being tried by Lucenka, Kiriev Tymoshenko, and this Lucenka? Please tell me, honestly, are you not jealous of these two judges who are so brilliantly doing such a career for the services they do to the authorities?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u251	I'm not jealous.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u252	Thank you for your answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote the bill of passage as a decision to elect a judge. [[Registration number 10185-2]] Please vote. [[13:06:46]] For 269 I'll take the order. 10185-3, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u253	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Percov Tetian Sergiyevna, The Red Army District Court of the Donetsk district of Khalaji Olga Volodymyrovna, Economic Court of the Odessa District of Djáchenko Tetjan Hennadijovna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote a motion for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 10185-3]] Please vote. [[13:07:39]] For 258. Decision taken. 10185-4, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u255	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Emilianov Valentina Ivanovna; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Corsac Vitali Antonovich; the Court of Appeal of Luhansk Luklánczuk Vitali Fedorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv District of Strus Lydia Bogdanovna; The Court of Appeal of the Suma District of Philonov, Alexandrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Montenegrin District of Kosvana Troyan Trojanović; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Mazurik Olen Fedorovna; Odessa’s Administrative Court of Appeal Tanasoglo Tetjana Mikhaylovna; Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Ganich Mikola Fedorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u256	Just a minute. Yuri Odarchenko, please microphone. Then there's Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u257	I have a question for Emilian as a judge of the Supreme Administrative Court. Please tell everyone that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u258	Just a minute. So let's just say that if you have any questions, we might as well do that right now: get out of the list, vote. Do you have a denial or just a question? Just a question? Well, then, please. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u259	It is well known that Judge Kiriev was assigned to the Pecher Court only after his personal statement by President Janukovic of Ukraine. There was no competition to replace vacancies; he did not take the appropriate exams. It is obvious to all that he was assigned to the Cave Court to conduct a political process and to execute a case against Timoshenko. How do you see that judges are thus unlawfully appointed to a position in violation of the current Ukrainian legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u260	I think the judge can only answer when considering a particular case. It's not really a question for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u261	Thank you. Just a minute. Kenzir Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u262	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine! Igor Leonovich, questions about the work of the courts in Lviv. I have raised the question of the situation around the railway city court on more than one occasion. District Court of Lviv. Since 2005, this year, it will be 8 years old when the case of the former head of Samburo Tershovchin is being heard. For the first time, I listened to the case and handed down a valid sentence to Judge Ganich, whom I mentioned here, who was then caught in a bribe of 400,000 dollars. And, of course, the choice. The verdict of the court, the verdict of the court of Tershovchin, the briber, also cost a lot of bribes. You can push this court to at least 10 years of this hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u263	Thank you. The question is understandable. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u264	You see, here's the situation. No other body should interfere with the judge’s case in essence. Only after the trial is concluded can we make and determine the circumstances under which the judge ruled. If this does not apply to judicial proceedings, because the judicial proceedings are examined by the higher courts, the Higher Qualifications Commission responds to the actions taken, the unlawful acts performed by a judge or a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u265	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u266	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. You know, it's me to one of the previous colleagues, let's ask Kiriev some questions about who's responsible. Is that why those poor girls are being set up under Kiriev? They have no relation to him. So I have a question for the head of the High Qualifying Commission, which is why you have a relationship with him, because Kiriev was unlawfully appointed judge of the Pecher Court. And because it's because of your flexible position, because you didn't comply with the requirements of the law, you gave it the opportunity to assign it to this position, that's why, knowing that it's on the hook, like Judge Wolf, against whom a criminal case has been violated, they're doing all kinds of power demands. They'll put you in jail tomorrow. You're in the rostrum today, and tomorrow, Kiriev and Wolf and you will be put in jail, and any of us will be put in jail for not doing it. Mikolai murderers, free rapists walked until the people rose up, and innocent people were sitting in prison because of such Kireys. I'm asking, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u267	Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u268	I want to point out that I am not just the head, but I am also the judge of the Supreme Court. And I want to point out that the opinion, not the thought, but the decision of the Higher Qualifications Commission was made in accordance with the requirements of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm betting on a motion for a Supreme Council ruling on the election of judges. [[Registration number 10185-4]] Please vote. [[13:14:01]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome, on your behalf, the judges we have just appointed as judges on an indefinite basis, by making the appropriate decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to wish them health, and above all, that their questions do not arise. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for the fourth time. A draft Act on the characteristics of the sale of shares belonging to the State in the statutory capital of banks, which the State has taken part in the capitalisation, is being announced. [[Registration number 9362]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u272	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered a bill on the characteristics of the sale of shares belonging to the State in the statutory capital of banks in which the State participated. It's a second reading. The second read included 27 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, a working group with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, and the World Bank. In general, it was decided that there was a need to leave the draft of the bill, in fact, in the first reading. So all 27 proposals were rejected. Although we discussed all of these in the committee, we certainly had a discussion on some of these issues. I'd like just for the transcript that the discussion came up with. Four positions noted by the committee. The first is that. about the non-sales of small shares. So the bill only involves selling large shares. The second question that was also raised by the committee is that the sales consultant of the stock packages is defined with certain criteria that the committee members also made comments on the terms and conditions that the consultant is supposed to meet. The next question that also occurred is who is to conduct the sale competition for these banks. We would consider it necessary that the State Property Fund of Ukraine should do so, but the Ministry of Finance has been prescribed. Nevertheless, the position of the Ministry of Finance was more convinced that the competition was to be run by the Ministry of Finance. And the last position is that it is not possible to participate in the acquisition of shares of those owners who took part in the statutory capital until the bank was recapitalized. Such questions were answered on the committee. That's why I marked them for the transcript. In general, we recommend adopting this law and are willing to consider it in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, the committee was motivated by his refusal to make positive decisions on all 25 amendments, the need to reconcile these positions with both the Ukrainian banking system and the international financial structures. Did I pass the position correctly?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u274	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u275	At the same time, MPs insist on their amendments, although I would ask them not to insist. Yuri Carmazin, 1 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u276	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as a result of such actions, is a committee. You've seen it. We get 11 Presidential vetoes in a week. And then we're going to get after these things. I propose in part two of article 2: "The sale of bank shares is done in accordance with the principles of legality, openness and transparency, competitiveness, non-discrimination of participants and prevention of corruption and abuse." The end of the text I propose to write. These changes are aimed at clarifying the rules for the sale of bank shares packages to ensure the legality and effectiveness of such sales. Yes, this list needs to be supplemented by principles such as legality, transparency, nondiscrimination, and the prevention of corruption and abuse. It's a circle in the world, I realize it's not for our state. But I'm asking you to support my amendment, it's not political, it's political.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u277	1 amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:19:50]] For-40 Not supported. 2 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u278	Yuri Carmazin. The 2nd amendment refers to the first part of article 3 after the words "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." To complement the words "on the basis of proposals from the National Bank of Ukraine." I make these changes with the aim of clarifying the bill, because according to the Ukrainian National Bank of Ukraine Act, the National Bank is the body responsible for bank supervision. Therefore, it can carry out a more careful assessment of the success of the capitalisation of a particular bank and the need to sell the shares of banks that belong to the State. Furthermore, according to the Act on First Instance Measures to Prevent the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis and to Amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine, a decision on the State's participation in bank capitalization is taken by the Government on the basis of proposals made by the National Bank. Therefore, it would be logical to assume that a decision on the sale of shares by banks is made on the basis of proposals made by the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support this amendment, it is not political.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u279	Vote 2 of the amendment, Yuri Carmazin. [[13:21:20]] For-47 Correction not supported. Stanislaw Arjewitin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u280	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to draw attention to what this is all about. Those banks where the state owns, and the sale of these particles will be determined by not so much a state, but by this consultant, an international advisor, and we'll see further in the text. So I would like to draw attention to this, that this right is now going to be for counseling, not for the state. My proposal was that this should be done by the Maintenance Fund. I'll read you the conclusion of the Legal Authority on this new design for the sale of government particles. "The proposed way to regulate the sale of capitalised banks by the State is unacceptable because the issue of the alienation of state property is regulated at the legislative level and has a practical application of about 20 years." I would like to point out that three months ago, we passed a new Law on the Maintenance Fund, where all the functions that we're delegating now are not clear to any of the counselors in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u281	And that doesn't apply at all to 3 revisions. Your 3 amendment says a lot about other things. And 3 amendments to what is said in your amendment are mentioned in the preamble. Literally read the preamble, and all your words are written in the preamble.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u282	3 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:23:08]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. 4th Amendment. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u283	This is about the 4th amendment, I'm sorry. The chairman of our committee said correctly, I thank him, he rightly placed emphasis on the fact that we had a discussion on all of these issues on the committee. And unfortunately, as far as I know, the committee's decision has never been made. But I would like to stress once again that the main novel of this bill is that now to alienate shares where the state owns it will not be a holding fund, as this is largely provided for by law. Thus, the law states that the holding fund can be the founder of the State, a participant in the acquisition of shares by the State. The holding fund has the right to invite advisors, the Cabinet of Ministers submits that it is appropriate to alienate the shares acquired by the State from early sale. So my proposition is, this should be done by the State Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u284	Puts to the vote the 4th amendment. [[13:24:39]] For -14 Correction not supported. The 5th, 6th and 7th amendments are the amendments that Yuri Carmazin made. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u285	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, with your permission to amend. I understand that there is a desire for everyone to consider immediately. But I don't have that desire, because this law will be shameful if it doesn't change it now. I propose in article 4 of paragraph 1 of the first paragraph that the words “the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine” should be replaced by the words “the authorized central executive authority on the issue of the formation and enforcement of public financial policy”. The reason is that it is wrong to use the full official names of ministries under the laws of the law. And look at the last veto of the President, he's already changed the Ministry of Economics and everything. Nevertheless, we do not want to conclude as a legislative body. Part four of article 2 of the Law on Priorities to Preventing the Negative Effects of Financial Crisis says exactly what is being done.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u286	Puts to the vote the 5th amendment. [[13:26:10]] For-27 No correction supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u287	It's a 6-mendment. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u288	Yuri Carmazin. I thank all the deputies who have supported, unfortunately, there are not many Democrats here today. At 6th Amendment, I propose part two after the words "competition participants" to complement by saying "bank shares sales commission" and beyond. I propose this amendment in order to reconcile the bill with each other. In accordance with article 12 of this bill, a commission for the sale of bank shares by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is formed. At the same time, article 4 of the bill does not include the sale of shares to the bank or to its participants. Obviously, such a commission is involved in the sale of bank shares. That is why I would ask you to support my legislative initiative and allow me to continue to express my thoughts. But I would ask the opposition to also focus and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u289	6 amendments shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u290	Please back up! [[13:27:38]] For-36 No correction supported. 7th Amendment. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u291	Yuri Carmazin. I thank all 36 people's deputies. I encourage others who are more involved in more serious conversations to look at the law, because something terrible is going to happen. And I propose in article 5, part two, after saying, "to have a significant share in such banks," to add: "and, or banks, banking groups, shareholders or participants, the former shareholders of banks that the State has recapitalized in accordance with the law." These changes are made with a view to clarifying the bill on the listing of persons who cannot be strategic investors, buyers of a stock package. I believe that, in addition to excluding the possibility of being strategic investors contained in this article, banks, banking groups, shareholders or participants in banks that have been recapitalised by the State in accordance with the Law on the Priorities to Preventing the Negative Effects of the Financial Crisis and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u292	I'll bet you a vote on the 7th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u293	Please back up! [[13:29:03]] For-25 Correction not supported. Yes. Correction of Gorbal, 8th. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Arjewitin, 9th. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish I could explain. It's about who doesn't have the right to be the buyer of these shares that will be put on sale by that foreign advisor that I've already talked about, and we'll go back to him. Thus, they have no right to take part in those shareholders who formerly owned a significant share, that is, they were coowners of the bank. I understand that this is cut off so that those shareholders who had a stake in this bank would not have the right. Because we're going to talk about the fact that shares are banned from fragmentation, so we have to sell with a big package, we need and obviously it's going to be for foreign big companies, obviously. So, as it were, my proposal to leave the right for the Ukrainian investor to have the ability to buy these shares. I think that the Constitution of our State puts the conditions of all investors before buying or intending to buy shares of a bank. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u295	I'll bet you a vote on the 9th amendment. [[13:30:38]] For the 18th. Correction not supported. Amendment 10, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u296	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose in article 6 that the first and third words of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine should be replaced by the words of the “authorized central authority of the executive branch on the issue of the formation and enforcement of public financial policy”. I would like to point out that in all the last veto, the President wrote you "for economic policy" and so on. I just wrote "financial policy," that's absolutely right. Although part four of article 2 of the Act on First Instance Measures for the Prevention of the Negative Effects of Financial Crisis states that the Ministry of Finance, however, needs to define general names to indicate the names of ministries and other central authorities in the laws. Because in article 106, the Constitution empowers the President to form, reorganize, and eliminate the Prime Minister of the ministries and other executive bodies. Please support my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u297	I'm betting on the 10th amendment. [[13:32:07]] For-19 Correction not supported. 11th Amendment. Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u298	Yuri Carmazin. Amendment 11a refers to the change in part one after the words "The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine" and I propose to add the words "according to the agreement of the National Bank of Ukraine." I'm writing it for the National Bank of Ukraine Act, by the way, I don't see any National Bank representatives here today, which is extremely negative. I address Mr. Arbosov, serious issues are being resolved. You don't have time to join the Supreme Council anymore? Don't you have any deputies? Mr. Arbusov, please change your attitude toward work. Yeah, well, the National Bank is the body that's overseeing the bank. Thus, the introduction of a standard that provides for the assessment of bank stock packages, the receipt of recommendations on how to conduct and the preparation of a plan for the sale of bank stock packages, the selection of strategic investors and others, the Ministry of Finance appoints a consultant for the sale of stock packages only for the approval of the claimant to the advisors of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u299	I'm betting on the 11th amendment. [[13:33:37]] For-44 Correction not supported. Stanislaw Arjevitin, 12th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, this article tells us that this is a counselor who is now entitled to sell almost one-on-one shares of government in those banks that have been purchased by the state. So only the investment bank can be the advisor. We don't have such banks in Ukraine under our Ukrainian legislation. There could only be an international law firm. Of course, an international law firm. There are still signs of this sole seller of these shares. It also tells us the legal office, and I'll read, "The project is to involve a consultant in selling bank stock packages, which we think are meant to ensure his selection with the removal of potential competitors." Keep going. This advisor should have a 20-year experience in providing advice, including public consultations, has a five-year experience of doing appropriate work in Central and Eastern European countries. Clearly, this is about a foreign consultant who will.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u301	I'm willing to vote on Amendment 12. [[13:35:07]] For-26 Correction not accepted. 14th Amendment. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u302	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the amendment to which these changes are made is article 7, which is called the article, "Seconds of the sale of bank shares." So in this context, I propose in article 7 that the first part should be deleted from the words "no splits per part." And then it's going to be like, "Sales of bank shares are made at these stages," and then the list is going to be equal to what's called an article. And that's what I'm writing to achieve when I sell stock packages, the highest price for them, which is going to lead to a higher yield by the State Budget. If you sell shares without dividing them into pieces, it won't help you get the highest price for them as it is now, if you keep writing. That is why I ask the majority and minority representatives to vote in favour of this amendment. It speaks of the possibility of filling the country’s larger budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u303	14 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[13:36:36]] For-46 Correction not supported. Amendment 16. Stanislaw Arjevitin, you insist on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of law that we prohibit the sale of shares with smaller packets. So you can sell now is just going to be an opt. I think it's not as much about budgeting as it is about Ukrainians who have the right under the Constitution to participate in such processes being cut off. That's why I think it's the wrong norm, because packages, like in all countries, are sold freely and by any citizen of Ukraine or a legal person has the right to take an interest in and buy such parts, especially when it comes to government shares. That's why all of us: both Gorbal and Arjewitin and Carmazin say that there should be a right under the law to split shares, that is to say, to sell such shares with their favorite quotas. Please uphold the rights of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u305	16 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:37:58]] For-32 Correction not accepted. 17th Amendment, Arjevitin. Are you insisting on her? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that the word "constructive" in the text should be read: "foreign counsellor" is just a hidden word. That's why I'm proposing to remove the foreign counsellor. In his place under the law, put the "Fund of the Keeper" all over the place. You don't have to see high-paying advisors, we have to support them for years when we have a qualified state institution, the State Property Fund. In addition, under the new Maintenance Fund Act that we passed last December, that right is granted to any entity, I mean, to an asset assessment, to any Ukrainian entity that has a corresponding license. Why is it only by law that only a foreign counselor should appreciate this part, seek out a foreign investor? I think, well, you can figure out what it's for. So what I'm suggesting is, let's replace the holding fund and remove the counselor. Here's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u307	17 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[13:39:24]] For-43 The decision is not taken. 18th Amendment. Carmazine, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u308	Yuri Carmazin. I am very sorry that only 43 people understand in the state that it is better to pay their holding fund than foreign counsellors at their rates. It's actually criminal stuff that's being offered. Sadly, a colleague of Arjewitín was not supported. My amendment refers to article 9, which is called "Contesting." I propose after part one to complete it with a new part, second, with the following content: "The order of sale of bank shares packages is taken into account in the requirements of privatization legislation." These changes are due to the fact that in the Act on the Management of Subjects of State Property Rights, according to it, the specificity of the sale of corporate rights by the State in statutory capitals of banks should meet the requirements of privatization legislation. It's about the same thing that Mr. Arjovethin was trying to tell you. But there's no committee listening to anything. I have the impression that another nation has begun to work for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u309	18 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:40:55]] For-55 The decision is not taken. 19 Amendments. Arjewitin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u310	Dear National Deputies! Now we've come up with the subject of sales, that is, the competition itself. This is how the sales authority of these foreign sales advisors for these packets is now prescribed. Of course, he is legally delegated by the Cabinet of Ministers to do so. So my proposal is to replace the "foreign advisor" in this part again with the "Fund of Holding" in accordance with the Act on. which is clearly defined as how he makes an assessment, prepares reports, and prepares the sale price. It is a law that we adopted together two months ago when we considered it. That's why I'm offering it. Let's take that right to a foreign advisor, give it to our state-owned holding fund. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u311	I'm betting on a vote of 19 amendments. [[13:42:12]] For-37 Correction not accepted. Amendment 20, Stanislav Arzvitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, my 20th amendment is to continue to delete the powers that we give to this legal adviser from selling stock packages, which evaluates them with market value, the current state of the bank, volumes and so on. Well, you know how conditional that is. It's a law on. The State Property Rights Assessment Act and the professional evaluation of the Maintenance Fund clearly set out the procedures by which it assesses the property, reports to the Cabinet of Ministers, and continues to sell or manage it. Well, the law provided the government with such a clear function, a clear mandate, clear mechanisms for assessing property. No, we're giving it back to a foreign package salesman. I'm asking you to support a qualified holding fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-15-m0.u313	I'll bet you 20 votes. [[13:43:35]] For-33 Correction not accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the decision that we will begin the voting process at 1:00 in 45 minutes, I ask you to take a break in the consideration of the matter and to announce the need for a transition to a vote. Yes, the head of the commission, are you still going to make the announcement? Well, the commission's already done. Dear colleagues, according to our decision, we begin voting at 13 hours and 45 minutes. It will last up to 14 hours for 45 minutes. So there's a vote break.
