ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:54]] The 352 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on July 12, 2012, the Central Electoral Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lucenka Sergio Vitaliyovich, elected on September 30, 2007, in a multi-mandatory national constituency that was excluded from the election list of the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" bloc. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Lucenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by Ukraine’s Constitution, Ukraine’s laws, and to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please welcome our colleague. Dear colleagues, and I immediately announce a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy, in accordance with the Rules, that it is established to be part of the "Ukrainian People's Self-Defense" MP. [[Applause]] Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that you listen. In accordance with articles 147 and 149 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appropriateness of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on guarantees of inviolability for individual officials to the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[of 27 August 2012 No 2-B/2012]] [[Registration number 3251]] I also report that article 155 of the Constitution of Ukraine cannot be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the last session of its term of office under article 149 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure. The question of prior approval and further consideration of such a bill is included in the order of the day’s first session of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine without a vote. Dear National MPs, two factions -- the faction "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense", the faction "BUT" -- "The Fatherland" have applied for a recess to make a statement. Arsenius Yatzenuk has a word for the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u4	Dear Members of Parliament, the stability of the Party of Regions has already begun to suit. Yesterday, at a meeting of the government of Prime Minister Azarov in a closed part of the government, he clearly stated under the transcript that, "Acts go well, things go very badly." This means that the government is hiding the real situation in the country that is happening in the economy. On Monday, the National Bank of Ukraine stopped interbank foreign exchange deals, and on Monday, the currency exchange rate increased to 9 dollars. On Monday, in fact, the first signal came to the collapse of the Ukrainian financial system. The National Bank of Ukraine and the government are hiding the real situation, the International Monetary Fund has made it clear that there is a mere $15 billion of net reserves left in Ukraine, not 30 billion that the government is hoping for. We're asking Prime Minister Azarov here to tell us clearly what stability means from the Party of Regions, and how do we avoid a financial collapse in the country? You've borrowed an extra $20 billion over the last two years, we're asking you to answer where you've divided these costs? In addition, the government has introduced a bill that is in the order of the day for the current week, which envisions the cancellation of ballot papers for elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as forms of strict reporting. We were so aware that you bought a printing press somewhere, and now you want to print the ballot papers and fake the election. We demand clear from the government why are you afraid of fair elections in Ukraine? And last but not least, the government has also introduced a bill on so-called video surveillance cameras, so let's try a short arithmetic action that is probably difficult for the Party of the Regions. In Ukraine, 34,000 plots, each video camera is worth as much as one thousand dollars, 34,000 times one thousand dollars, that's 34 million dollars. The government has allocated one billion dollars for the purchase of video cameras, subtracting one billion and 34 million dollars, the question to Prime Minister Azarov and President Yanukovic, where have you divided 966 million dollars? You close schools and hospitals say there's no money, you steal 966 million dollars, you send, by the way, to the currency market this bracelet that you printed and caused a financial crisis. We're asking Azarov here to explain the financial crisis, the election, and the purchase of video cameras.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u5	Dear National Deputies! I ask the secretariat to prepare this as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine with the appropriate requirements of two factions. Dear National Deputies! We should consider approving the agenda of the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear National MPs, the draft agenda of the day session is traditionally made up of the main body, as it were, with two divisions, bills prepared for consideration in the first and second readings. Bills that committees need to do the necessary work for their preparation, and include honourable colleagues, and two additions: Appendix One is a list of bills that the committees, at the conclusion of their previous consideration, propose not to include in the agenda of the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. In view of the fact that these bills are already included in previously accepted documents or have lost their relevance. There is also Appendix two, which is offered by factions: The parties of the regions, the Communist Party, and the faction of the "BUT-"Paternity" to remove from the draft order of the day a whole series of bills. Taking into account the situation, respected colleagues, this insistence on the appropriate factions that are far from being included in article 21 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, which makes them not subject to the right of the legislative initiative of the faction. But there is an appropriate insistence I propose to do so: I will put to the vote the approval of the entire project with all the plugins as the order of the day session. And when we look at some of the other bills, it's going to be possible for each faction to motivate its position. If you don't support me, I'd ask you to support me. I'll put it to the vote in parts and the part that remains. I remember there was a letter. I got a letter from the faction of the Party of Regions, removing Bills 8147, 10380 and 1074. When we get to the vote, I'll remind them that they're being removed. Peter Mikolaiovich, the letter is from the faction of the Party of Regions. So, your honors, I'd like your attention. I'm voting on the motion to approve the draft decree as the order of the 11th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, with all the accessories. [[Registration number 11166]] Please determine by vote. [[10:13:16]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Then comes the vote on the proposal for approval. on the adoption, in accordance with the Rules, of daily bills in Chapters 1 and 2 such as those prepared for consideration or as those requiring the preparation of committees for consideration. Please vote. [[10:14:00]] For 257 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, I'm putting to a vote, one minute, appendix number one, this is a list of bills that committees, based on their previous consideration, are proposing not to include in the agenda of the 11th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on the vote on the committee's proposal to remove the bill in Appendix One, as defined by the committee. Please vote. [[10:14:55]] For 236 Decision taken. Now, dear colleagues, let's move on to Appendix Two, which is offered by the three factions. Since there are big differences here, please pay attention! – I will put to the vote the additions, i.e. the proposals contained in Appendix No.2 for each fraction separately. One minute, there's a vote! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! There's a vote coming. This is the principle of the Conciliation Council. A proposal is put to the vote. In Appendix No.2, paragraph 1, which proposes to delete the Bills on the proposals of the factions of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine by removing the Bills from this paragraph according to the faction letter: 8147, 10380, 10714. [[There are 68 bills.]] I am betting on the vote on the deletion in Appendix No.2 of the bills defined in paragraph No. 1. Please vote. [[10:16:19]] For 263 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the deletion proposal from Appendix No. 2 of paragraph 2. These are proposals from the faction of the Party of the Regions. I'm betting on voting to remove these bills from the draft agenda. Please vote. [[10:16:57]] For 263 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, in Appendix No. 2 item 3 is the proposal to remove from the draft agenda the bill from the faction "BUT - "The Fatherland". I'm betting on the vote on the removal. Please be sure. [[10:17:34]] For -8 The decision is not taken. So, honourable national MPs, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to approve the agenda, which will be made up of Chapters I and II, which you supported plus in Appendix 2 of Position 3 of the Faction "FOURTH" Faction. Since you did not support the removal, it should now be included in the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda of the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call in Chapter I, II, and in Appendix 2 item 3. Please vote. [[10:18:40]] For 265 Order of the day approved. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the delimitation of state and municipal property. I would like to vote on this issue in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:19:22]] For 221 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich. The narrator is Alexander Kozub.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u6	Thank you. National Deputy Sass, BUIT is Fatherland. Dear colleagues, given that the decision of the Supreme Council, which is proposed to cancel, was taken in June, I will remind you of the short run of those events. At the time of approval. Article 19, 120, and 116 were severely violated in the second reading and adoption of the Law as a whole. 120 Constitutions of Ukraine and article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules During the preparation for the second reading of the bill, the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council drew attention to alleged violations of the Constitution and the Rules, and these conclusions of the Legal Authority were taken into account by the Committee. However, the Head of the Supreme Council put to the vote these amendments and, by a second attempt, they were accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After a lunch break, National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, on behalf of the two factions: "BUT – "Fathership" and "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", made a critical statement pointing out violations of the Rules and the negative consequences for Ukraine of the bill. Negative. I want everyone who listens to us to understand that an illegal cynical attempt has been made to take the authorities to the Ukrainians, to Ukraine the last thing that they might have left is land, through the incorporation of state property into the Earth Bank statutory fund. I want to remind my colleagues that they don't want to listen to the Ukrainian people or the opposition. John Smith of old.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u7	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u8	They don't allow opposition. We propose to correct the error and cancel the decision that has been made illegally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us deal with this by reporting and co-reporting bills, not the opposition and the authorities, but the national deputies of Ukraine or the heads of committees. From the Co-Rapporteur's Committee is the head of the Committee's subcommittee on Rules, MP ethics and security of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kozub Alexander Andriyovich. Please, Alexander Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u10	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee at its meeting on 4 July this year considered a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the delimitation of state and municipal property by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Kirilenko, Tomenk, Sass and the statement by the elected national deputies of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 June this year not to sign the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 June this year in its second reading and in its entirety and repealing the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on its adoption. [[Registration number 10043]] The Committee noted that in accordance with part one of article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the decision of the Supreme Council could be revoked by the Supreme Council before the corresponding act was signed. Taking into account that the Ukrainian national deputies Kirilenko, Tomenko, have made an appropriate draft decision in compliance with article 48 of the Rules, the Committee adopted conclusions and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider and support the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and the whole as a bill of the draft Law of Ukraine 10043. Nevertheless, I propose that the draft regulation be supplemented by a paragraph by which Ukrainian law 10043 should be sent to the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there willing to make a statement on this matter? Please sign up. Please show me your name. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Then Vladimir Moses will perform. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u13	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I, John Kirilenko, and Sergey Sas responded to the situation in the session room. We think there are two problems with this bill. The first problem that needs to be addressed is when a bill is being considered, where the subject of a settlement is completely different from the amendments that are then proposed, in fact, by a vote. In this case, there were completely different problems. And as we understand here, there's a lobbying group that would like to make the Earth Bank, and as experts say, "under specific people" and prepare a tool for real land privatization. Clearly, for reasons of compliance with the Rules, such a bill must be repealed. The second position that the authors have drawn attention to is the nature of the discussion and the multiple vote on the rule. I remind you that it was voted somewhere at 2:09 p.m. from the third or any other attempt. Similarly, this is unacceptable, for it is evident that such a desire to start the earth’s market is not confirmed by the position in the hall. Because there were about 50 voters in the room who were pushing eight buttons for themselves and for that comrade. In general, when I talk about the history of land reform, I've just gone through Central Ukraine and I have to say that maybe we don't know something in the Supreme Council, but the local oligarchs and authorities know it. They say, "As of January 1, 2013 the land will be sold." So today in local farms, people with small farm assignments are cynically illegally taking this land away because everyone understands that the directive is to prepare for the sale of land and sell it from the following year. Therefore, I believe that the bill should be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u15	Yes, Volodymyr Romanovich Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u16	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Please give the word to colleague Hanustak, Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u17	Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u18	Jury's shame, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of this draft law, which was brutally in violation of all procedures adopted, there is no point in considering the land market bill at all, because, in fact, this law has already taken place in full acceptance of the land, and it is necessary for everyone to know absolutely what, it is so comforting, it has been done in the dark. And look what these laws say, if earlier the abuse of local authority could have been captured, could have been reversed, could at least be investigated, then the adoption of this law would result in some kind of mythical authority, the same State, and the local authority doesn't even know what it's doing there. So we mixed up a bunch of different things, first of all, we mixed up the notion of jurisdiction, we broke up, in fact, the administration broke up and left the local government with only jurisdiction within the walls. All the other territory outside the barrier is nothing at all, not even mutilated, according to the famous work of the classic, but nothing at all, and once a night, it will be accepted by those who are now assigned from the Bank to this acceptance. Is that possible? And then there will be the question that the Communists are asking, return what we've already taken, to whom to return as you voted for this law? Therefore, this law could not be adopted at that time and must now be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u19	Gordy of the faction, then Kaletnik of the faction, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u20	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I would like to remind my colleague that the Communists had never voted in favour of the bill. And I would ask you not to mix sin with the righteous, never does the Comparty of Ukraine support the laws, the ones related to the market of the earth, all the more so that the cynical bill, which was voted on, is what we're talking about. I'm drawing attention today and I'd like to ask for the support of the entire Chamber that the faction of the Company of Ukraine registers a bill that proposes to continue the moratorium. And we're proposing this in order to form common sense in society, so that we can give up selling agricultural land at all. On earth, it is imperative to do what is right, not trade in land, for no one will forgive us, nor will anyone ever forgive us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u21	Yes, Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u22	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This bill has no bearing on the earth’s market. It divides municipal and state lands that no one has been able to separate in 21 years. I propose that the draft regulation be supplemented by a paragraph entrusting the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee with the task of furthering the mandate of the Central Executive Authority in the area of land relations in the area of land ownership by amending articles 15 and 118 of the Land Code accordingly, as well as the granting of powers to the Cabinet of Ministers in the area of transfer of land to the statutory capital of the State Land Bank. A draft bill by the Committee on Agrarian Policy to be tabled by the Supreme Council today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u23	Please. What's your name? You're an asshole, aren't you? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u24	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Indeed, today we realize that none of us do. One resource that is not distributed today is land. And indeed, there is a warning that the law that was passed is just the first step in making the land privatized. Therefore, the position of the MP group "For the Future Reform" is quite specific, and we believe that this decision should be supported and repealed by the Supreme Council decision of 21 June 2012. Because it is obvious that this decision has been taken by the Supreme Council in grave violation of the requirements of the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. That is why we will vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that there is indeed a draft law extending the moratorium until January 1st on the land market. by January 1, 2014. At the same time, I remind you, honourable national deputies, that the Supreme Council has just voted and removed from the bill. from the agenda of the Land Market Act, so there's no reason to talk today, because there's no document, actually. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 10043-p) decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, as a law, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable Colleagues, according to article 40. I'm calm. According to article 40, according to article 48, the Supreme Council can only decide to cancel, and continue to make suggestions and accept them. Vote. Please vote. [[10:33:33]] For 297 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal -- let it form, work when they're ready -- we'll work. Well, what kind of question is that? Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the deal? Well, committee, when it's ready, let's make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u26	What are you ready to do? Where is the table, where is the table??
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u27	Go talk to him, talk to Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we need to consider removing disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Securities Depository System Act. On July 6, 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act on Ukraine's Depositary System. Taking into account the initiative of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, the Chief Legal Authority agrees. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, certain contradictions and disagreements in certain provisions of the law must be removed. The relevant materials are given to you when you register. Therefore, respectable colleagues. What? Disagreements are simply voted on, and the committee is working on them. Well, please, Arjevitin, as an exception, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to get your attention, because in fact, when we talk about some disagreements, and actually we have new texts of whole paragraphs, we delete whole paragraphs that we accept and we include new paragraphs. Let me give you some examples. Please tell me if it might be a misunderstanding when we accepted you in the hall that the statutory capital of the accounting center should be at least 100 million dollars. The amendment says 120 million. I don't think it's a clarification or a misunderstanding. Next. When we say that the state should own at least 50 percent of the State Central National Depository, we've accepted it, and now we're offering to accept at least 25 percent. I don't think it's a misunderstanding. So, Your Honor, please, this is actually a new draft of the bill, not inaccuracies and disagreements. So please pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I applied to the General Legal Department, which is responsible for the relationship between the positions proposed by the Committee of Article 131 and the Committee of Me. ‘ The Chief Legal Authority has assured us that everything is in line with the law. I'm not an expert, you're on the committee then make a decision. There is a motion for a vote to take a decision on the settlement of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on Depository Accounting System of Securities. Please vote. [[10:36:57]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I am voting for a return to this issue. [[10:37:20]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! The proposal here was that we decide that the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should continue until the conclusion of the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for today. [[We can only accept it at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council.]] When we do this, we will discuss further how we can organize the work in the sessional mode. I am voting on this proposal to continue the evening session until the finalization of the issues set out in the schedule for Thursday. Please vote. [[10:38:18]] For 261 Decision taken. A draft Ukrainian Documentary Law granting the right of entry into Ukraine and exit from Ukraine is under review. [[Registration number 10381]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[10:38:53]] For 227 Dear National Deputies! The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Tolstenko Volodymyr Leonidovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Ivan Vasilovich Popescu. Please report, please. Then I ask John Popescu to speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u30	Thank you. The President-in-chief, the honourable national deputies, is invited to your consideration by the draft Ukrainian law on documents certifying the person, granting the right to leave Ukraine and enter Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Tolstenk. [[Registration number 10381 from 23.04.2012]] In 2010, the European Union approved an action plan for liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine. In turn, the President of Ukraine approved an action plan for liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine, one of the first steps being the adoption of legislative acts for the implementation of Ukraine's documents to go abroad with an electronic biometric information medium providing adequate protection of personal data. The purpose of this bill is to legally establish the legal status, list and description of the form of documents certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine to grant the right to leave Ukraine and enter Ukraine. The whole procedure is systematized and consolidated by law. The bill called for the introduction of state-of-the-art document protection technologies. One such element is not sticking a photo card, but putting a digitized image of a person on a page with data about it. But only documents used to go abroad are included in the digitized image of the owner. In the Internal Accounting document, a Ukrainian citizen's certificate, a person's return certificate to Ukraine, and a Ukrainian citizen's temporary ID will be attached to a photo card. Dear colleagues, the main problem of the bill is that, despite the considerable social resonance, the bill does not provide for the possibility of a citizen rejecting religious beliefs by giving fingerprints and by Motivated electronic communications in documents. The bill is, indeed, free of flaws and others, but the problem needs to be solved, and the requirements of the European Union need to be met. These shortcomings can be corrected and the comments taken into account in the second reading of the bill. Therefore, the first - reading committee proposes that it be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Korgee, please, the "BUT" faction. Then Caplienne Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Hanushtak Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u33	Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u34	Jury's shame, Fatherland. Notice, they vote with foreign cards – violations of the Constitution. Such laws will be repealed. And now, essentially. So we're replacing the passport, which is the document that even Majakovsky was proud of. This is the essence of the law. So we're once again lobbying the interests of a famous firm that wants to get its barrel on this. Now, what's very washed up about what documents might be, or passports as the main document to take to work, the document that is actually the identity of the person is actually cancelled. Then, notice, there is the same article on registration and fines for not registering. Well, I must repent. I'm the one who's been living in Kiev legally with my wife for over a decade without changing my registration. I'm willing to take the punishment accordingly. But I think it's absolutely absurd, because registration has to apply and should be an incentive for a person: at the place of registration he has to get social benefits and at the place of registration he must, in that case, pay taxes. That's why I don't think this law is necessary. A fully regulated legal field is now being used, including for going abroad and used for internal use. This law is a lobbyist! And appropriately harmful, harmful to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u35	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Smitch will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Let's talk a little bit about history. Similar initiatives are already taking place in Parliament for a year and a half. I'll remind you of the disgraceful bill 8507. The next line is 1036, 1036-1. 10381 is the bill that we are considering right now, 9592 is the bill that was introduced by the MP's group "Reforms for the Future". And today another law called 10492. Let's take a moment to figure this out. The law that we are currently considering -- 10381 -- is moving its efforts towards amending the Ukrainian legislative field through the organization of documents that identify a person not only in Ukraine but also abroad, in order to meet the requirement of the Action Plan on the visa-free regime. Basically, it's okay. But there was only one flaw in this bill: an attempt to change the internal document, i.e. to introduce the so-called internal certificate of a citizen of Ukraine. I'll let you in on a little secret. The MP's Reform Group for the Future has held a number of working meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Profiles, which is the initiator of this law, and we have agreed that Bill 10381 will delete such a standard in the second reading as the internal certificate of a citizen of Ukraine, retains the full list and the name of the internal documents. And that's the kind of bill that the MPs would have voted for in the second reading. But I see today that most are not set up to adopt a similar bill. That's why I want to say yes. We'll never vote for the bill that you've set up -- 10492, we'll talk about it later. But now the group is going to vote. And please, if this bill is not supported, support Bill 9592, which really protects the interests of Ukrainians, and also solves the issue of liberalizing the accession to the Action Plan and fulfilling the requirements of the ISAA for the introduction of information materials into foreign passports. To the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u37	Yes, you have everything, don't you? Thank you. Grigory Yudkomovich Smythuch, if you please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I personally urge you not to vote for this lobbyist project. Why? I don't know what we're going to be asking right now is that, apart from an internal passport or a foreign passport, we have to import or print or give people some kind of identification of one form or another. I think that if someone wants to give a job to a printing press who is appropriately printing these documents, that's one question. And if we're talking about citizens who have to redefine documents or have different documents, that's different questions. There is a generally accepted situation where a citizen has a passport in this passport that reflects all the necessary information that they need in order to answer, indeed, the word "passport." Passports are accepted worldwide, and passports as documents are in all countries of the world without exception. Why do we have to give a certificate to a person? So I don't think this document is relevant today, that it's necessary, and I think it's lobbyist. I think that this document is like a document that will not be in the citizens' interest and that will bring a nuisance into the only document that Ukrainian citizens should have. So I ask you not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! This question has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that the bill needs to be finalized, so it needs to be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for appropriate work. As a result of the Rules, I put to the vote the proposal to adopt the draft Law registration number 10381 on Ukrainian documents certifying a person, granting the right to enter Ukraine, and leaving Ukraine. Dear colleagues! There's a vote coming. [[10:48:45.]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. It is announced for consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Entry into and Exit from Ukraine of Ukrainian Citizens, and some other Ukrainian legislation on visa facilitation for Ukraine, registration number 9592. The committee suggests that a simplified procedure be used to deal with matters. Please vote. [[10:49:25]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Kaplanko. The Coroner is the first Deputy Head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Honorable citizens, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! We all know that in order to liberalize the visa regime at the Brussels summit, a deal has been reached: an action plan for liberalisation by the European Union. It's like everything's right. The International Association of ICAU has issued requirements for the mandatory registration of a particular person’s information at a border crossing. They have no relation to their internal documents. In Ukraine today, there are three laws and a host of regulations and regulations that support this thesis, which requires the EU and ICAU to change, but in two ways: the first way is to intervene in existing legislation and adopt a separate special law; and the second, by simply masking, is to make small changes to the existing law, which does not actually touch the existing legislation, but allows the issue to be addressed by “little blood” is the essence of our bill. Our bill proposes to introduce the prescribed law in a new edition, providing for types of documents for entry into Ukraine and exit from Ukraine in accordance with the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization, and to regulate all procedures governing removal, removal and so forth. Such order is not determined by anyone in Ukraine today. The main thesis of the bill: without touching documents operating in Ukraine, without changing the established names to leave a Ukrainian citizen's passport in peace and all without exception documents that bear witness to the person, and under no circumstances should such fashionable internal certificates be introduced by a Ukrainian citizen. We're making appropriate changes to passports, diplomatic passports, seaman's license, crew member's license and person's license to return to Ukraine. Stop. Period. Nothing more. The necessary biometric information can only be used in these documents. We are confident that it is only in such a limited but minimal way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u42	In this way we will also save the electoral wallets and the nerves of Orthodox Christians, and we will satisfy Ukraine’s European efforts to drive its citizens to a visa-free regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u43	Thank you, too. Taras V’jačeslavovich Czarnovil is the first deputy head of the committee. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The committee considered this question, and I'm speaking on behalf of the committee, but I'm also in agreement with the previous speaker, and I'm also one of the co-authors of this document. The committee considered the matter. Yes, we had some questions on the committee and some warnings about certain norms that coincided with many positions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, but we came to the conclusion that all these contradictions and amendments could be corrected in the second reading procedure. None of them violate article 26 of the Ukrainian Rules, so the committee decided unanimously to support the bill itself. We come out of a very important principle on the committee. We have long been told that there will not be a simplified visa procedure unless we take a number of legislative measures, including a change to our passport system for going abroad. But last year, it was supposed to be, it was like this new year, it was supposed to stop issuing repeated Schengen visas to Ukrainian citizens. The same is true of a number of other countries, including countries in the North American continent. There may be another delay, but it cannot be forever. The question needs to be resolved. And the committee approved the authors' position that this should be decided by not agreeing with new bills, new laws, completely new ones that are being created for every reason. There is a very specific law on the order of departure from Ukraine, the entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens, and the law in force. It, and only in our view, should reflect the entire basis of the documentation for the organization of this entry and exit. The passport, the identification of the person, they're different documents, there's got to be other laws. When we say we're doing this to simplify the visa regime, and now it's just to make sure that our citizens aren't unmovable, we have to make documents, we've got to make changes to this project, to this law, and we've got to adopt the exact rules to the point that apply to the foreign passport. That's why the committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u45	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this. Bully, the reform group for the future. Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u46	Thank you. MPs for Reforms for the Future, Zdirko, Mikolayevščina. Well, our parliamentary group is going to support this bill because this bill in the new edition foresees what our nation really needs today, what our citizens need today. So that it doesn't happen the way other bills are planned to do -- make a new passport or report to the whole of Ukraine for 600 bucks. And it's clear that what's planned by alternative bills is actually a tax that will be levied on all Ukrainian citizens. And our bill, reported today by Caplienko, provides for an exit from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine in accordance with the standards of an international organization, the civil organization of ICAU, the order in which they are formed, the information they provide, the duties of the persons on whose behalf such documents are issued, and the questions of their design, issuance, exchange, and so forth. We realize today that this bill is just a step in Ukraine's path towards international standards. And what's proposed by other bills when we realize that some commercial organization will have all the data all over Ukraine. And it's not even about a state institution. So our parliamentary group will support this bill, so it really meets the requirements of the international community. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u47	Vladimir Bondarenko, BUT faction, Fatherland. Next is George Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u48	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Timoshenko, Fatherland. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich would like to address you first. Notice this part of the hall, where the greens are shown by the board, when the vote goes to a convenient party of regions and its satellites. There are fewer than a third of the deputies in this part of the room who are supposed to be there. That is, in your eyes -- the head of the Supreme Council, the speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament -- the act of gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine is to be voted on in person. The pianists who sit here today violate the Constitution of Ukraine want to go to elections to be reelected. You don't have to. Go to the conservatory, train your fingers there. And here you have to work with your head, work on the laws, press one of the pros or cons, and it's going to be a direct performance of your MP duties, and the piano is being used elsewhere. I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to take steps to vote on a single person's behalf. We do this and we show such respect for the Constitution. The other one. These laws that are being enacted are the most important in our society today!? But look what happens to the financial system where the bracelet crawls. Look, the bread journey has begun. Today, there are artificially held back some processes that will erupt after the election. Today, the improvement that follows the forerunners in society today shows that today there is no strength in this government to maintain this improvement, so that people do not realize that it is a lie, one more time will force them to come to the polls and support those who have deceived them, deceived them, and deceived them. So I would point out that this is not an important law. It's only important to some people who want to print new batches of new documents in order to get people in line to replace what they have. And the order on the border is no one's going to, but you can see that dual citizenship is flourishing and so on. So against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, "The People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! Ukraine is steadily approaching international isolation. Ukraine’s economic situation is steadily deteriorating. This is evidence of the printing in Malina, U.S.A., of bracelets of five hundredths of acre. Only such coins are now being brought to Nazbank by printed money. The size of these is already hundreds and billions of dollars. Everything is calculated to win the election at any price, at any price, without coming to the election, they already believe they have won. No, Your Honor, you didn't win anyone, not even allowing people to vote, including me, you didn't win anyone. As a result, I would like to stress whether this law is needed or not. From the point of view of immigration, from the point of view of people fleeing this country today and around you see "sales," because businesses are being destroyed and they are being destroyed by power today, they're being redistributed property. At the same time, however, the arguments made by Viacheslav Cnerovil are totally acceptable, I apologize, Taras Crnovil, are completely understandable and there are countless questions before this bill of law, but it has to be politically accepted. And this will be actually a new law, a new edition of the law on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine. I don't want to count all the flaws that are in it, I don't want to count them, I repeat them. But they can be processed. And this law needs to be considered and adopted if we don't want to turn into a Bandustana that we're being turned into all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u51	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. I remind you again of the committee's conclusion. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office has also made a number of critical remarks to this bill and is of the view that it is appropriate to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return it. Actually, to reject this bill. I'll bet the vote on a regular proposal. Taras Blackwall, please, microphone. What do you got?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u52	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to clarify. The main scientific and expert office preferred the previous Bill No. 10381, which was no longer supported by us. And it was said that they thought it was better to accept it. If there is no indication that this bill is inadequate, it cannot be accepted. It's just a matter of priority. That one's off. All the scientific and expert's comments apply to the second-reading procedure, and they're being corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u53	Thank you for the reminder. Indeed, the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority have stated that this bill should be considered as a result of the consideration of the previous bill. Yes, it is. But that doesn't change the conclusion of the Chief Science Administration, I've announced it to you, they're proposing to reject it. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Entry into and Exit from Ukraine of Ukrainian Citizens, and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on visa facilitation for Ukraine]] [[Registration number 9592]] [[11:02:44]] For 20 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, in developing the opinion of our colleague of the National Deputies that each deputy should vote in person, I urge you to do this only personally and I call not only on the left but also on the right side, because it is absolutely a wild decision that we will leave the Supreme Council and leave only those who will train those who work in the session room. At the same time, we have to write an application not to get a salary, which is the right thing to do. So I urge everyone, let's show practical work, I urge everyone. Yuri Anatolyovich is, I am, he's already half the Supreme Council. Right, Yuri Anatolyovich? We're working. It's okay. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of personal data is being reviewed. There are two bills: governmental and parliamentary, or 10472, 10472-1. Again, the committee suggests that this issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[11:04:06]] For 211 Decision taken. Reporters: National Deputy of Ukraine Jaroslav Suhiy, as well as Deputy Minister of Justice of Dmitry Voron. Maxim Lutsky will be speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, the Personal Data Protection Act, which was adopted by us in June 2010, was both progressive and extremely relevant to both the country and society. At that time, today’s realities need to be corrected because this area of activity is constantly changing, and the law contains standards that sometimes allow us to use pressure on business. Experts also believe that some standards of law can stimulate corruption by individual officials. That is why we and the Ukrainian national deputy Shevchuk came to the conclusion of the need to modernize or improve the earlier law. Today, we will consider two versions of this law: the MP and the government. MP on 17.05, government on the 28th. These documents are conceptually similar and are geared towards dealing with the same tasks: removing the burden from the enforcement authority when processing personal data. Second, minimize the pressure on business, eliminate all corruption in the work in this area. That's why the copyright team thoroughly reviewed the scope of the law, explained what activities in the field of personal data protection are priority and require special registration, and which does not need to be done. Today’s amendments remove about 90 percent of the comments from market participants and exports. This bill was created by the promotion and active cooperation of Ukrainian and Western experts in the information and communication market. In particular, this bill was considered by the Council on foreign and domestic investment with the President of Ukraine. During his consideration of the bill in the form of councils, he was approved by experts from various business associations. Therefore, we propose to adopt one of these bills as a basis, and to take into account the position of the second bill in preparing for the second reading and then to adopt, as a whole, number 10472.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u55	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to speak with the Deputy Justice Minister of Dmitry Crowe, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u56	Good afternoon, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft law amending the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act was drafted by the Ministry of Justice to implement the national plan of action for liberalisation by the European Union of visa regimes for Ukraine. The project proposes to significantly improve legal regulation in the area of personal data protection, including by extending the scope of the law and any personal data processing activities, not only in personal databases. It is also planned to expand the scope of personal data processing, including the addition, compilation and execution of personal data, the protection of the vital interests of the subject, the need to protect legitimate interests of the owner of personal data, and third parties. In addition, the draft law is intended to address cross-border transfers of personal data, determine the grounds for such transfers and the country's level of protection of personal data, which is defined as appropriate. In order to relieve the tension in society regarding the need to register all databases of personal data, the draft law proposes to exclude from the State registration the personal database associated with labour relations and the personal database of members of public, religious, political, and professional organizations. Another factor to facilitate the application of the law will be the draft law repealing the requirement for the subject to be informed in writing about the inclusion of personal information in the personal data database. The draft law proposes to extend the rights of the subject to personal data, such as denials against the processing of personal data and personal data. agree to process your data. This project is going to be very much accepted. will contribute to the implementation of the National Plan, but I'm asking you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u57	Thank you, too. Head of the Committee on Education and Science, Maxim Lutsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, the current Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act needs to be corrected. During its operation, many shortcomings, inaccuracies, and disagreements were detected, which have caused many problems in practice. As a result, a number of appeals from Ukrainian citizens, legal persons, and representatives of local self - government authorities have been and continue to come to the committee. Taking into account the importance of personal data protection and the adaptation of existing legislation to the directives of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, the Committee held two meetings with the independent experts of the Council of Europe. On their proposals, draft laws were sent to the Council of Europe for an expert evaluation and, on the basis of these meetings and evaluations received, they preferred Bill 10472-1, which was prepared and presented by the Government of Ukraine. This conclusion is in line with the conclusion of the scientific and expert management of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the expert evaluations that have come from the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the National Academy of Law. The committee was also given a decision by the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, which is proposed to be based on 10472-1, prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition to his second reading, consider the proposals of Bill 10472, prepared by the National Deputies. The bill has been drafted to guarantee the personal rights and freedoms of a person guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and to harmonize the law in force with the requirements of the directives of the European Union. I propose to support Bill 10472-1, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and to accept it as a basis, and to take into account the appropriate proposals of Bill 10472, prepared by the People's Deputies, in his second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u59	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national deputies, please show. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Then Vladimir Bondarenko will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" will certainly support these bills. We've come up with this bill that we're going to support, this is Bill 10472, with the number one. We think it's more solid, it's more accurate and it really protects the rights of those people whose data can be processed in one or the other registers. But why did I take the floor? I wanted to read the second reading because of these comments that we are about to make to amend. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that now that we're talking about it. What's important is if this bill targets its body to, let's say, improve the situation in the last year in this area. When all the entrepreneurs were put in their ears, few even came up with commercial institutions that for a thousand, two thousand, or five percent of the business’s turnover gave advice on how to get out of this procedure when the state demanded a nominal registration of everything that was on the computer from the people with whom they were working and so forth. That's good. However, if today's bill, in particular section I, paragraph 2, regulates not so ambiguous a form that the personal data of a citizen can be processed if consent is granted. Or in a form that allows us to conclude that it is being given. Well, how can that be interpreted? Listen, this means in translation into normal language, the following information and its personal data can be used under any circumstances. It is not enough that a citizen’s right to complain against public authorities is not anticipated or narrowed down in the future. And because it is possible to address only those persons with an invitation to tender for the process of personal data. I think that's the kind of thing that needs to be cleaned out of these bills, because we're not protecting them, we're hurting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u61	Vladimir Bondarenko, “BUT – Fatherland” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Sobolje Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u63	Sergey Sobolev, please give your speech. Then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Chief. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to address you once again, my colleague Bondarenko has pointed out that there are a maximum of 50 deputies in the room. They continue to vote with foreign cards – this is a direct violation of the Constitution. You know that the "BUT – Fatherland" faction has adopted a decision on the obligation to vote personally, and we would like our colleagues to follow the Constitution. In fact, it's a bill. What is this bill aimed at? I think everyone's now very much focused on how the "beneficials" have emerged in Ukraine, who give out supplies under the beautiful names of their names, and then there's a turn of grandparents, those who live in the village or in the city, who work Xerox, and these people give a copy of their passport and identification code before they get an allowance. Why is this being done? You can only guess. Some think that this is to be used in the next election. I have a different version: there are further credits from commercial banks, which are massive, and there are tens of thousands of cases today where a citizen knows nothing about his name being taken credit, his apartment, his house. Why is this used, in a way, is not investigated by the internal organs that are standing right here at the tents and allowing it to do so. In my opinion, this is mass fraud, which in the form of elections is used for one purpose only, so that after the election or directly during the election, our citizens learn that their property or loans have already been made. That's why I'd like to point out that the bill should clearly establish a ban on such cases. What's more, there's actually a sale for the signature ration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u65	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u66	What he's agreeing to. Such facts must be directly punished by law. That's why we're not voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u67	Thank you, too. Yuri Karmazin, please, our Ukraine faction - People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! With good intentions, the road to hell is made and squandered. Thus, this law seems to be well - intentioned to build a road to hell, respected government officials. I'll show you what you're doing to make it clear to all Ukrainian citizens. Here's the left and right column, article 13 of that project you're proposing. If you've been offered before. Excuse me, in the 12th article, the collection of personal data in part four, collected information about the subject’s personal data, as well as information about their sources, are provided to that subject at his request, except in cases established by law, you suggest that this be excluded. That's why you need it now. You're just building up a police state, and you're doing it along with buying auto jobs and everything. If you have previously read in article 14 of the Bible.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u69	Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u70	I'm done. Only in the interests of national security and economic well-being and human rights are you now complementing this rule after words and only by the words “if necessary” and by the text that is contrary to both the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court. This law cannot be voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. So once again, I'll remind you of the committee's conclusion and the committee's proposal, which is consistent with the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, namely, to adopt, on the basis of the Government Bill, 10472-1, and the proposals, the positions contained in Law 10472 and deserve to be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for the next reading, i.e. the second reading. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first draft of the parliamentary law to adopt it as a basis. This is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of personal data. [[Registration number 10472]] [[11:18:23]] For-0 The bill was rejected. A second proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act. [[Registration number 10472-1]] [[government]] Please vote. [[11:18:54]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners or Persons Without Citizenship. [[11071]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'll bet you a vote on the committee's proposal. [[11:19:34]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Vice-Minister of the Interior, Victor Ratushnyak. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights of the National Minorities of International Relations, John Popescu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u72	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, is proposing a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. The draft law was drafted by the State Migration Service to implement paragraph 3 of the Act on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship, which took effect on 26 December 2011. The purpose of this bill is to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into line with the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Non-Citizens. This goal is achieved by making further changes to six laws in Ukraine. Ukraine’s Code of Administrative Judiciality for Assignment alongside District Administrative Courts, as well as the local courts, have the authority to deal with cases of forced return and forced removal of aliens and stateless persons, and to reduce the duration of such cases from 30 to 5 days. Regarding the Ukrainian Security Service, regarding the issue of the prohibition of entry into Ukraine of aliens or stateless persons on the shortening of the temporary stay of a foreigner and a stateless person in Ukraine and on the forced return of a foreigner or a stateless person. About the emigration of the term "passport document", "visa," "station certificate" and the order of their processing and issuance. Regarding the Ukrainian State Border Service for the Security of the State Border, the authority to establish biometric data of foreigners during border controls, to place illegal migrants at temporary residences, and so forth. On freedom of movement and free choice of residence to clarify the legal basis for the residence of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine, as defined by the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. About border control regarding the clarification of the term "visa", "staying in Ukraine" according to the Ukrainian Law on Legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u73	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u74	The implementation of this legislative act will not require additional material and other costs from the state budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u75	Thank you. As reported by the deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations, John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u76	Thank you. The high-ranking presiding officer, the distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship, Registration No. 11071 of 9 September 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that on 22 September 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship, which was intended to remove conflicts between the provisions of the law and the Constitution of Ukraine and international human rights agreements and bring Ukrainian legislation into line with the legislation of the European Union. In view of the effectiveness of this law, there was a need to amend a number of legislative acts, namely, the Ukrainian Security Service Act, the Immigration Service, the State Border Service, the Freedom of Movement and the Free Choice of Residence, the Border Control and the Code of Administrative Justice. The provisions of the bill are in line with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade and the Ukrainian Security Service without notice, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Border Service Administration with observations and proposals that have been taken into account. Taking into account the Committee's discussions and the comments made to it by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, and in particular the changes to the Ukrainian Immigration and Freedom of Movement and the Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine Act, which requires clarification, the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill only on first reading. Please accept in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u77	Please sign up for the performance. Please, Peter Cibenko, the Communist faction. Behind him is Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u78	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! When we look at the bill that is now being proposed for adoption, the situation seems to be completely technological: it was passed by law and, in view of its adoption, we are amending a number of valid laws in Ukraine. But the situation, it's not like that. Because the things we're trying to remove today are the result of adoption, and more specifically, confirmation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Readmission Treaty. Because we remember that when this treaty was ratified, the Ukrainian Company, and especially its faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, warned that we would have a number of problems associated with the ratification of this international agreement. That's what happened, too bad. So what I'm saying is, dear colleagues, is that the faction of the UK Company will certainly support these changes, but we have to be consistent in our actions, and at least somehow listen to each other when we warn each other that ratification of the Readmission Treaty has a whole range of negative consequences and they need to be weighed. So once again, this should be a lesson, including for legislators in terms of ratifications of our international treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u79	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u80	Vladimir Yavorowski, United Opposition Dear voters! The Supreme Council has passed a law on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, an unquestionably important bill for the protection of national interests for the security of the Ukrainian state itself, it is absolutely necessary because today we know exactly what the attacks are and the same Luzkov on Sevastopol, other politicians in the first place in Russia, unfortunately, is only about Russia. And, of course, Ukraine has to put up certain barriers as other countries do, but knowing the practice that is today in Ukraine, when let's say those people who are opposed to us are walking freely against the existence of the Ukrainian State, I'm not talking about the Russian Marine Corpses who have captured all our lighthouses on the Black Sea coast and there, let's say, I tried as a deputy to pass and I'm not even allowed in, although it's an absolute property of Ukraine. Because of this, I am convinced that this bill is primitive, we will not vote in favour of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko and the United Opposition. Because once again, to get the Security Service to do so again, and every Ukrainian today knows perfectly well that the Security Service, the police, tax is completely closed down today, this figure you all know very well, for this post and for the President's Administration. Because of that, there will be once again a completely manual regulation of who to evict, who to shorten the term of being there, and so on, because of this bill, there is no way to preside over it. Because it happened that we have people in the middle of Ukraine who don't let us in here when the Prime Minister tells us that there was no Ukrainian language, but there was only a Great Russian dialect. So I think we need to protect ourselves from this power, not from foreign citizens, we're not going to vote for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u81	Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I believe that this bill is important and must be supported in the first reading. But there are a number of issues that need to be settled when considering the second reading on the committees. And I think the committee will handle this task. If we analyze the situation in this direction, either in this sphere or in this plane, in the world, we see that most countries in the European Court of Justice, which are at a sufficiently high economic and political, social level both countries, yes, have one problem, which is related to social status, including foreigners who are present. In the area. their countries. Including Italy, France, Belgium and so on. And the events that are taking place periodically there, on this snout, say what Ukraine should think about, no. allowing us to come up with objective reasons why we should. We'll have problems in the future. Regrettably, the legal status of foreigners in Ukraine is today. Not exactly in favor, I'd say, of the stability of the situation in Ukraine. What is it? You know that foreigners who come in on private invitations or other matters are in Ukraine for 90 days, and according to the law in force they can turn to. To the passport desk, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and continue my visa. Unfortunately, this trend makes it possible to stay in Ukraine for a large part of foreigners who do not have jobs that do not work anywhere do not have enough resources to live in Ukraine. Nevertheless, the passport tables continue to be, so to speak, a temporary stay. And this is a threat to the national security of Ukraine, to the stability of the social position of our state. If you take it, look at Georgia. For some reason in Ukraine most of the thieves in the law who were on Georgia’s theories were forced to leave and are in Ukraine. Some part of Chechen citizens who.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u83	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u84	That's why I'm calling on the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the committee to deal with these issues because they have to protect the stability of our state. And stability is. In order for a citizen to have only legal reasons, and only those reasons, if he resides in the territory of Ukraine. We have the ability, our citizens, to stay abroad, that is, parallel or symmetrical possibilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u85	Carmazine, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National MPs, is there any benefit in this law? Yes, it is, but it is lost because of the negative that is also in this law, it is lost. Why? I absolutely agree with the General Scientific and Expert Office, which says that the abolition of the emigration quota, i.e. the number of foreigners who are allowed to emigrate during the calendar year, for those who have lived in Ukraine for three years, for the granting of their status, is illegal. There's a concept of state emigration policy that was approved by the President's decree back in 2011, which states that strategic direction is, among other things, strategic direction. Each State approves quotas. And what are we doing? So in this part, I don't support this law. Because of this, I think we need to get rid of those citizens who have dual status, particularly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u87	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u88	In particular, imagine, until now, the judge in the Kharkiv Court of Borodin has a dual status: a citizen of the Russian Federation and a citizen of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u89	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. [[Registration number 11071]] Please vote. [[11:33:11]] For 253 Thank you. Decision taken. Let us go to the section “To review the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. Here we have one law, 9435, but for technical reasons, it's still 8652. Therefore, I ask to vote on the inclusion and review the Ukrainian Law on State Lottery in Ukraine with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 15.08. [[Registration number 8652]] Please vote. [[11:34:03]] For 254 Supported. We're looking at the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services with the President's proposals. [[Registration number 9435]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:34:31]] For 226 Supported. Please report to the representative of President Miroshnichenko Yuri. Get ready for Demchishen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u90	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 21 June 2012 the Ukrainian Administrative Services Act cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. [[Registration number 9435]] First, the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services introduces amendments to article 191 of the Ukrainian Code of Master, which stipulates that government prices are established on the forms of documents established by the executive authorities, other public authorities, to determine the results of the provision of administrative services in accordance with the law. In doing so, government price regulation is done by setting fixed government and utility prices, marginal price levels, marginal levels of trade allowances, and supply fees, marginal cost standards, or by making a mandatory declaration of price changes. Dear colleagues, considering that we are looking at this bill in a reduced regime, I will immediately propose to you the President's offer of a transcript. Presidential proposals. It's suggested to count as follows. First. In part, article 9 and article 20, paragraph 4, paragraph 2, should be deleted. In connection with this part of article 9, article 9, paragraphs 3 to 5, and article 20, paragraph 4, consider paragraphs 2 to 4, respectively. The other one. In paragraphs 3 and 4, paragraph 3 of article 20, the words and figures "in accordance with part five of article 191 of the master code of Ukraine" shall be replaced by the words "in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices". Third. Article 20, paragraph 4, paragraph 1, reads as follows: “Article 191 of the master code of Ukraine (“Reports of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, 2003 No. 18.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u91	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. It's all in the National Deputies, they can still read. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u92	Adam Ivanovich, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u93	Have a seat, please. You had two minutes to perform, you used it. Reported to the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Demchishen Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich, a colleague, at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government discussed at its meeting yesterday, 5 September 2012, the proposals of the President of Ukraine from 17 July 2012 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 21 June 2012 the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services, with proposals by the President dated 15 June 2012. [[Registration number 9435]] I will no longer stop at the proposals, just announced by the previous speaker, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko. That's why I'm going to tell you the position of our committee. We didn't come up with an agreement yesterday, the committee didn't get it, here. And because no decision has been taken, we are, in accordance with article 111 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, making proposals to the President of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u95	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We're taking a comparison table, right, the committee isn't defined. We'll vote on the President's proposals. Dear colleagues, we vote for the table. First offer. Dear colleagues, I repeat, we will vote on the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Unfortunately, the committee has not decided on these proposals, but it has the right, the committee has the right not to decide, the Supreme Council still votes. I will read the President's proposals, and we will support the President's proposals. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to postpone the bill because, once again, I ask again, because they want to make proposals here that are not in the President's proposals. Let's get this over with. Let them work with the committee, after the break we'll come back to that, if they do, they'll agree. Because all we have to do is vote on the President's proposals. Yes, please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u96	Adam Ivanovich, I think everyone in the work process is facing a situation where every bill is being finalized. The proposals submitted by the President were submitted some time ago. The time has passed, these proposals have been finalized, and they have been agreed at all levels, and the representative of the President wanted to report on this. Since we do not have a protocol right now, I would like to ask that we give time to finalize the bill in the afternoon, to return to the draft and consider it with proposals that will be submitted, including by the representative of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u97	I said, let them prepare after 16 hours, if there's a committee's opinion, a written proposal for those who are, according to the signature of those who have the right to do so, then we'll consider. Once again, I ask you carefully, let's not impose on the President. We're looking at the President's proposals. If we're going to put our own in the President's proposal, it's a new law that once again has the right of the President to promise. This can only be done by a committee. All those who have a bearing on this bill and would like to make proposals need to make these proposals to the committee, not from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. We are considering the Ukrainian Law on State Lotteries in Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 17.08.2012, registration number 8652. Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. [[11:42:40]] For 208 Supported. Please report to President Miroshnichenko. Prepare Pinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u98	We put him in the dayroom. We voted before and put this bill into the agenda. Please go to the lottery stand. And they don't give it to you because they're in on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u99	Adam Ivanovich, I beg you, considering that you did this on a reduced basis, I ask you to put the President's motion to the vote and vote. Since the President, by vetoing draft laws to the Supreme Council, comes out primarily with respect to the Constitution and ensures that laws do not violate the legal rights of Ukrainian citizens and formulate his proposals accordingly. Thank you for your attention so as not to waste time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u100	Thank you. Yes, please, from the Pinkchuk Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u101	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! On September 5, 2012, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy reviewed the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Law on State Lotteries. The president of Ukraine made a number of proposals for legislation that were taken into account by the committee in its work. And the committee, by its decisions, recommends the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Lottery in Ukraine, taking into account all the President's proposals. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u102	We'll vote on the President's proposals, there's a lot of them. The President's first proposal is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:44:42]] For 243 Supported. The President's second proposal is for a vote. The committee counted it. [[11:45.]] For 252 Supported. A third proposal from the President is put to the vote. The committee counted. [[11:45:20.]] For 252 Supported. The President's fourth proposal. The committee is accounted for. Please vote. [[11:45:40.]] For 255 Supported. The President's fifth sentence is counted, please vote. [[11:45:59]] For 258. Supported. The President's sixth proposal, the vote, the committee counted. [[11:46:19]] For 258. Supported. The President's seventh proposal was taken into account by the committee, please vote. [[11:46:40]] For 253 Supported. The President's eighth proposal is for a vote, the committee has counted, please vote. [[11:47:00]] For 257 Supported. The President’s ninth proposal was to vote, and the committee counted. [[11:47:20]] For 259. Supported. The President's tenth proposal is taken into account by the committee, please support. [[11:47:40]] For 255 Offer supported. 11 the President's proposal is taken into account by the committee, and the vote is taken into account. [[11:48:02]] For 257 Supported. The President's 12th proposal is for a vote. The committee is accounted for. Please. [[11:48:24]] For 259. Counted. The president's 13th proposal is for a vote, the committee has counted. Please be supportive. [[11:48:48]] For 260 14 the President's proposal by the committee is taken into account by the vote. [[11:49:09]] For 262 Supported. The President's 15th proposal is for a vote. Please. The committee counted please support. [[11:49:31]] For 259. Copy that. 16 the President's proposal to vote was supported by the committee's request for a vote. [[11:49:51]] For 261 Supported. 17 offers are included. Please vote. [[11:50:10]] For 260 Supported. The President's 18th proposal is for a vote. Please support the committee counted. [[11:50:29]] For 262 Counted. 19 the President's proposal, the committee has taken into account, is to vote. Please be supportive. [[11:50:50]] For 263 Supported. The president's 20th proposal, the committee counted. Please be supportive. [[11:51:09]] For 261 Copy that. 21 Presidential proposals are taken into account by the committee. Please be supportive. [[11:51:29]] For 257 Supported. 22 The president’s proposal is considered by the committee. Please be supportive. [[11:51:52]] For 255 Copy that. 23 The president’s proposal is considered by the committee. Please be supportive. [[11:52:12]] For 263 Copy that. 24 The president’s proposal is considered by the committee. Vote. [[11:52:32]] For 260 Supported. 25th position supported by the committee. Please vote. [[11:52:50]] For 261 Supported. 26th, the committee counted the offer. Vote. [[11:53:09]] For 263 Supported. The 27th offer is on the table. Vote. [[11:53:27]] For 259. Copy that. The 28th is counted by the committee. Please vote. [[11:53:46]] For 256 Copy that. 29th, supported by the President. Please vote. [[11:54:06]] For 263 Supported. President's 30th proposal, supported. Please vote. [[11:54:25]] For 261 Supported. President's 31st proposal, the committee counted. Please vote. [[11:54:46]] For 260 Supported. The President's 32nd proposal, counted. Please vote. [[11:55:05]] For 261 Supported. The President's 33rd proposal is taken into account. Please vote. [[11:55:23]] For 257 Counted. I put to the vote – to adopt the Ukrainian Law on the State Lottery in Ukraine, taking into account all the President's proposals that we have voted on. [[Registration number 8652]] Please vote. [[11:55:54]] For 265 The law was passed with the President's proposals. Let's go to chapter two. The registration number of Bill 8693 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Land Code and Water Codes for Water Fund Land. Second reading. Reports from the Bevanko Valeriy Fedorovich Committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear committee heads! Please indicate exactly who will report. This may no longer be difficult to do. Please, Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u103	Deputies! Your attention is given to the Comparative Table to the draft Ukrainian Law on Changes in the Land and Water Codes of Ukraine on Water Fund Lands prepared by the Subcommittee on Land Relations to Second Reading. On the basis of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted on November 1, 2011. I will recall that the draft Ukrainian Law was designed to improve the legislative regulation of relations resulting from the establishment of coastal protection lanes. During the second reading of the project, 33 amendments were made to the committee by Ukrainian national deputies. Of these, 4 are counted, 26 are rejected and 3 are partially counted. For specific reasons, see the table below. At the same time, I will point out that as a result of the drafting of the bill for the second reading of the provisions of article 60 of the Ukrainian Code of Land and article 88 of the Code of Water, Ukraine are mutually agreed. In addition, according to the National Deputy of Ukraine’s Deitche, the listed articles of the Land and Water Codes have been supplemented by provisions according to which the boundaries of the established coastal and beach zones will be marked by documentation with land structure, cadastral land plans in urban documentation, and in the State Land cadastre. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations proposes a second-reading version of the draft Ukrainian Law on Changes to the Land and Water Codes of Ukraine on Water Fund Land to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u104	Thank you. 1 amendment, Kowzel. Declined. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 2 fixes, Dutch. Don't insist. Seminoga, 3rd. Don't insist. Carmazine, 4th. Don't insist. Kowzel, 5th. Don't insist. Seminoga, 6th. Shershun, 7th. 9th, Kowzel. The 10th, Seminoga. Carmazine, 11th. Don't insist. Eight? Please, Carmazin, 8th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u105	Adam Ivanovich, maybe after a break?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u106	I gave you my word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin. I propose at 8 the amendment in part seven after the first sentence to complete the new sentence, the second the following sentence: “The projects of the land system for setting up beach areas within the coastal protection zones are being developed in accordance with the order provided for by law.” I think it's the law that we have to address this extremely relevant issue of setting up these zones. So please support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u108	8 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:59:54]] For-9
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I am continuing this meeting until the end of this matter. 11th. Carmagine, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u110	Yuri Carmazin. The 11th amendment provides for the exclusion of part 8 of this project, namely: in the event of the uncertainty of the urban documentation of the coastal protection strips. In the settlements, the strips are set at 100 meters wide from seawater, seaweed, and lemons, and for other water objects, according to sections 2 and 3 of this article. These changes are made to exclude from the text of the bill a provision aimed at lobbying the interests of individuals or groups of individuals concerned with the same disregard for the interests of Ukrainian citizens and protecting the environment. Because the author proposes to protect only 1,000 meters instead of 2 kilometers, which, according to valid legislation, should be protected in any case. In my opinion, the uncertainty of documentation cannot justify the illegal use of coastal protection strips. I believe that the proposed norm is designed to create in legislation a kind of lasagna that allows.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u111	The 11th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:01:33]] For 1 Not supported. Danilenko, 19, doesn't insist. Dutch, 20th, don't insist. 21st. Seminoga, 22nd, 23rd. Kowzal, 24th. Dutch, 25th. Carmagine, 27th, rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that 50 deputies want them not to be protected, and people have taken this land, and people can't pass through it. I address the Ukrainian people. Such things have been done against you, these slides will allow you to handle the coastal protection strips on your own. As for the first paragraph, I propose that the first part of the fourth sentence after the sentence be completed, after the first sentence, to complete with a new sentence the second sentence of the following sentence: "The projects of the land structure for the establishment within the coastal protection zones of the beach zones are developed in accordance with the order provided for by law." I think that all the projects have, and the requirements for it, should not be a small town, namely, the requirements for them should be provided for in the law. That is why I call on the people's deputies, although I realize that the all-seeing and all-powerful hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u113	The 27th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:03:23]] For 1 Not supported. Carmazine's 29th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin. The point is that I propose in article 29 that the second paragraph should be deleted, namely: "In the case of undetermined urban documentation, the boundaries of the coastal protection strips in the locations are set at 100 meters wide. The waters of the seas, the oceans and the lemons, and other water objects according to Part Two of this article." These changes are made with the aim of excluding from the text a position aimed at exclusively lobbying the interests of oligarchs who ignore the interests of Ukrainian citizens and the protection of the environment, since it is proposed to protect not 2 kilometers, as provided for by the law in force to protect themselves. In my opinion, it's an illegal lasagna that we're creating right now, most of you are creating to rob people today. And it's also creating an environmental problem, and that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u115	29 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:04:52]] For the Not supported. And Carmazin's 33th amendment, it's counted, and it's counted. Dear colleagues, we've been through all the repairs. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the Act amending Ukraine's Earth and Water Codes on Water Fund Lands. [[Registration number 8693]] I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u116	You can't vote for that! What are you doing? [[12:05:29]] For 219 Not accepted. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u117	Members, please come into the session room. We'll continue our sessions. We're looking at a bill to stimulate investment activities in the priority sectors of the economy with a view to creating new jobs. [[Registration number 11026]] [[second reading]] Voropeyev, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! You have a table on this bill. If you have noticed, most of the amendments in this table are taken into account. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally adopt it as a law. I'm ready to go every turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u119	Thank you. Let's see, Tereshuk doesn't insist. Carmazine, accounted for. Carmazine, eight doesn't insist, thank you. Eighth, Yuri Anatolyovich. Are we moving on? Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin. I propose in Amendment 8 of Part 4 of Article 3 after the words "State support" to complement with the words "entities of farming that implement investment projects in the priority sectors of the economy" and beyond the text. I think that this proposal will be more correct and I'm making this change with a view to technical and legal adjustment of the bill, because this sentence is somewhat logically incomplete. So this standard is about allocating funds to state support, not specifically supporting what exactly? That is why I have offered economic operators to implement investment projects in the priority sectors of the economy. And I don't understand the reporter. I'd like to hear why we didn't write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u121	8 amendments shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u122	I think the committee can agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u123	Please vote. Vote. We're on our way. [[12:34:12]] For two. Not supported. 11th. Carmazine. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin. I propose in article 4 of the first edition: "State support is provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the submission of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Kiev and Sevastopol City Councils, district and city councils to investment entities that implement investment projects in the priority sectors of the economy." I propose these changes to bring the bill into line with the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, because the principles laid down in the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine need to be followed and the authority given to local self-government should be given. For the time being, local self - government has no authority and cannot carry out important social and economic tasks. I'd like some backup. I realize it's up to Chechchev today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u125	The 11th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:35:44]] For the five of us. Not supported. Yuri Anatolyovich, 16th partially counted. Don't you insist? No, it's not. 21st. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u126	21 amendments are proposed to exclude part four of article 4, namely: "The requirements for investment projects in the priority sectors of the economy the order of their selection and approval are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" because of the fact that in part two of article 4 of the bill already defined the criteria for investment projects. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers’ requirements for such projects are unnecessary. Moreover, as noted above, the Cabinet of Ministers is given too wide a mandate in this area. Approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the submission of the central authorities of the Executive Board of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea of Kiev and Sevastopol City administrations of specific editorial projects may lead to the creation of corruption schemes and the failure of individual subjects to support what is really needed. On the contrary, when an object meets the criteria set by the relevant legislative act, it is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u127	21 Karmazin's amendment to the vote please specify. [[12:37:20]] For the You're ready for 24. For -3 not supported. 24th, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u128	At 24, I sincerely thank not many who listen to what is being said, and those who today have not allowed the oligarchs of the coast to take over because the law is not adopted - there are 219 votes. Thank them very much for thinking that my fate is in this work. I propose the title of this article in the following wording: "authorization of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of the District and City Councils" these changes are made with a view to implementing the bill in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u129	Yeah, I get it. There are 24 voting proposals to allow all city councils. If we change the name, we'll all be city councils. [[12:38:28]] For the Three, and 27th, Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u130	Twenty-six.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u131	Twenty-sixth, 26th and 7th, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u132	Adam Ivanovich, there's still 26th, please. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u133	Okay, 26th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u134	Twenty-six, thank you. The first paragraph of the first paragraph of article 5 is proposed in this section: "The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district and city councils for the promotion of investment activities in the priority sectors of the economy." And so on and so forth. This change is also for the purpose of bringing the bill into line with the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, and I think that we have today, seeing the failure of the central government's policies, seeing the bankruptcy of the central government, rely on local self-government. As a result, we need to give them proper authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u135	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. What do we have that is not central governments? The 26th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[12:40:00]] For two. And 27th, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u136	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I'm offering at 20. In its 27th amendment in the first part of article 5, delete paragraph two and renumber the parts accordingly, namely: "Selection of investment projects for implementation in the region, involvement of investments, creation of the most favourable conditions for investors". This change is due to the fact that these organs are given too wide a mandate in this area. The selection of innovative projects can lead to corruption schemes and the failure of individual operators to obtain support that is really needed and vice versa. I think in this case, Adam Ivanovich, when I was talking about the central government, I meant that we have 27 more, you know, administrative subjects, but there are all the appropriate government administrations that are strangely called "what heads lead," although they're not heads, they're appointed persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u137	You're right, but they're not government. Karmazin's 27th amendment is a vote. [[12:41:31]] For the five of us. You've been more persuasive on this amendment. All amendments have been considered. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading as a whole of the Act on Promoting Investment in Priority Economics for the purpose of creating new jobs, Registration No. 11026. Please vote. [[12:42:06]] For 251 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens, registration number 10577, reports from the Committee of Jury Mikolayovich Voropeyev. [[on property rights]] Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the bill has been considered by the Committee on Economic Policy. The bill had only been amended by four amendments, all of which had been fully taken into account. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt legislation, taking into account these amendments as a whole, as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u139	Thank you. Karmazin’s second amendment is taken into account in an editorial way. He insists. The 4th is fully accounted for. About 2nd, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I agree with the text made in this law. True, under the previous law, the honourable Adam Ivanovich, you, as chairman, should have pointed out what the Scientific and Experimental Authority wrote. And it's legal that the bill can be accepted in the second with the next submission for the third reading. I would ask you to announce such things, because most of the national MPs don't read them. We're the only ones who read with you. And we have a responsibility with you, including to society, to make sure that people know. The same bill on the state registration of real estate rights, I think, should be accepted -- it's very well worked out. And thank the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u141	I just know that we have all people with higher education in the legislature, so they can read. I am voting on the proposal of the committee supported by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin to adopt the law in second reading and in general to amend article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. [[on property rights]] [[Registration number 10577]] Please vote. [[12:44:26]] For 261 Thank you, the law has been passed. We are considering the draft Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Discrimination in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10468]] [[second reading]] Reports a member of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Boris Fedorovich Bilash. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u142	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! On June 5, 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a draft Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Discrimination in Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Registration number 10468]] I would like to stress that the purpose of the bill is to establish organizational rules and mechanisms to prevent and combat discrimination. Sub? 18 proposals and amendments that have been carefully worked on the committee, of which 9 have been taken into account in full, 4 have been taken into account in part and 5 have been rejected. I would like to point out that according to the proposal of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suškević, disability has been attributed to the list of signs under which discrimination is prohibited, and there is age and age in this list. And we all know exactly how people are discriminated against by age in a hidden and direct form, especially in the field of employment. Thus, the adoption of the bill will enhance the protection of human rights and the introduction of Ukrainian legislation into international standards. On September 5, 2012, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minority and International Relations at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Opposition to Discrimination in Ukraine, prepared for second reading and recommended that the Supreme Council approve it as a whole as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u143	Thank you. We're going after the repairs. Carmazine's 5th amendment. Counted. 6th, Kovalevska. Counted. 7th, Carmazin. Counted. Sharov, 9th. Don't insist. 10th. Yuri Anatolyevich. Don't insist. 10th, please, Carmazin. I thought you were satisfied that your amendments were taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u144	Yuri Carmazin. I want to say that the committee as a whole has come to the point, but I have some suggestions that I have to make. In the first part of article 11, "Ukraine" and within its jurisdiction, I propose to replace the words "to which its action and the circle of persons who fall under its jurisdiction" with the text. [[end of quote]] I believe that this part of the bill, which states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights has been authorized to exercise parliamentary control over the observance of the constitutional rights and freedoms of human beings and citizens and the protection of the rights of everyone in Ukraine and within its jurisdiction, is not valid. The point is that the legal act is limited to three parameters: the term in which the legal act is legally binding, the space in which it is applied, and the circle of persons who are subject to a legal act in which legal rights and obligations are established. And it's proposed by the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u145	Don't you insist that they vote for the amendment? You bugged her, thank you. The 12th is your amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin. 12 the amendment relates to what I propose to exclude by renumbering article 15 accordingly. In particular: Accusation of decisions on the issue of discrimination. A person who feels that discrimination has been applied to him has the right to appeal to the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights or to a court of law. The exercise of the right of appeal to the Authorized Man’s Rights to the Court cannot be a basis for disfavor, nor can it cause any negative consequences for the person exercising such a right. Why do I propose to exclude this article? The point is that this article is absolutely a statement because it is sufficiently regulated by the Constitution and by the current legislation of Ukraine and does not need duplication. I think it's duplication. You know, we're just stressing for a long time that we're so democratic, and at the same time, we're having an attack on all the rights of citizens. We've already figured it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u147	Please, the 12th vote is on. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:50:24]] For 1 Not supported. 14th, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u148	Yuri Carmazin. I want to make sure that we don't, well, duplicate or show that we are, and then we didn't ruin the paper, and I suggest we exclude article 16, namely, "reparation of the material and moral damage caused by discrimination" because these things are long settled, including in this law. And the article looks completely redundant because it overlaps, and the Constitution, and it's legislation. It is now written that she has the right to compensate for the material and moral damage caused to her by discrimination. Moral damage is compensated independently of material harm. It's all about the Constitution, the Civil Code, other legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u149	Yuri Anatolyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u150	As a result, I believe that this needs to be removed for legal purity, and articles 15 and 16 are needed. I don't insist on voting, Adam Ivanovich, but I want this point of view heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u151	The thought is correct, but the butter of the porridge will not spoil it. Yes, the 17th amendment, Yuri Anatoliyovich, is edited. Don't insist. We've all gone through the repairs. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole "On Principles of Prevention and Opposition to Discrimination in Ukraine" Act. [[Registration number 10468]] Although there is a point to legal administration. Please vote. [[12:52:17]] For 240 Copy that. We're looking at a bill amending the Ukrainian Notaryate Act. [[on State regulation of notarial activities]] [[Registration number 10364]] [[second reading]] Vladislav Zabarski will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u152	skip.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u153	Where do we jump? All by this, all by day, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your colleagues, for your consideration is presented a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Notariat, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on the first reading of June 5, 2012. [[on State regulation of notarial activities]] [[No. 10364 of April 18, 2012]] The bill included 72 proposals by law enforcement entities, 34 of which included proposals, 27 rejected proposals, 11 not included as those in line with the requirements of part one of article 16, 116 of the Supreme Council Rules. In preparing the bill for second reading, the committee worked with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The bill establishes the status of a notary as an authorized public official, a professional in the field of law, and an assistant notary. There are more demanding and balanced approaches to the organizational and legal principles of notarius activity. The forms of State control over the legality of notarial activity are expanding. An active system of professional self - government of notaries is being created. There is an increase in the legal basis for drawing the notary to account in the absence or improper performance of their professional duties. The reasons and order of cessation of notarial activity are improving. It shortens the list of notary actions performed by notaries, etc. There are stricter requirements for notary candidates and his assistant. Some comments have been added to the bill’s main legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill is in line with other legislation in Ukraine. The committee’s decision of 11 July 2012 recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a second reading bill and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u155	Thank you. We're going after the repairs. Yeah, 2 revisions, Carmazin counts. Mybeard, 5th, no. Yes. Coastal, 9th doesn't insist. Yes. Carmazine, 10th, accounted for. 12th, Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I refer to you in connection with what I propose in paragraph 2 of the second part of the word “and also for private notaries of notarial action” to replace the words “and private notaries also have the right to receive payment for notarial actions”. This is a change in technical and legal adjustments to the position of the bill, because the proposed revision of this rule, literally from its interpretation, suggests that notaries should be paid for private notaries to do notary work. So one notary has to get the money for another private notary of a certain notarial action -- it's wrong and it's all the same, and it shows a possible editorial error in this norm. I want to fix it, and I suggest you do it. Hold on! And I'm talking to Chechov, there's no political support for Yuri Carmazin as an opposition. Support the lawyer Karmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u157	Jurist Karmazin's amendment to the 12th is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:56:31]] For the four of us. Yuri Anatolyevich, as a member of the opposition government, was more supportive. 15th, Yuri Anatoliovich, partially counted, does not insist. 20th, Carmazin. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u158	It was a great pity that we did not understand what had been said in the preceding amendment. I'm sorry, I repeat, I'm sorry. Maybe the president will see what needs to be done there. Amendment 20 refers to the fact that in part two of article 11, paragraph 7, of section 1 of the bill, the words “on a monthly basis from the date of its receipt” should not be deleted and the word “monthly” should be replaced by the words “three months”. This is done so that if such changes are made to this article, the situation will not be clear of the time frame within which such refusals will be brought — that is, no time limit for a court hearing. That's why I'm proposing to make this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u159	Amendment 20 shall be put to the vote, please be determined. [[12:57:57]] For the Not supported. 23th Amendment, Carmagina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u160	Yuri Carmazin. I suggested in part 1 of article 12, paragraph 8, of chapter 1, paragraph 1, that I should leave paragraph 1 in its original form, namely, from my own initiative of notaryus. I believe that it is necessary to leave the right for individuals to stop notary activities on their own initiative and to leave the possibility of cancelling the testimony on their application. This item is tested and must be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u161	Karmazin's 23rd amendment is a vote, please be determined. [[12:58:59]] For the four of us. Not supported. All the rest of Karmazin's proposals are taken into account, other colleagues do not insist that I put to the vote a proposal to accept in the second reading, and in general, although the General Legal Office believes that it should be sent for re-reading, but I am proposing that the committee adopt it in the second reading and in general the law amending the Ukraine's Notariat Act. [[on the State settlement of notary activities]] [[Registration number 10364]] Please vote. [[12:59:45]] For 253 Sorry, 253 laws have been passed. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. We're looking at a draft of the Law on Economic Experimenting in Support of the Shipbuilding Industry of Second Reading. [[Registration number 10360]] This is Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov reporting, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We are considering a second-reading bill: an economic experiment on State support for the shipbuilding industry. I would like to recall that the law under consideration today was supported in the first reading by all factions and voted by more than 260 votes. This is indeed a law aimed at supporting the priority sector of the shipbuilding, which is and lies at the foundation of our economy. For the second reading, the law has been fully prepared and all amendments have been made. Please support not only the law, but a truly serious prospect for the basic industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u163	Thank you. We're going after the repairs. Yes, Matthew Vladimir 5 is included. The chapel doesn't insist. 7th. Matthew 8th partially. Yes, Carmazine 10th. Counted. The 13th doesn't insist on Yuri Anatolyevich. 15th, Carmazin. Counted. 17th, Carmazin. Counted. Dear colleagues! No one insists, in principle, all taken into account, on their amendments? Then, with your permission, I'm making a proposal to the committee, even though the Chief Legal Authority has made a point. But the committee proposes the adoption of the whole Act on the conduct of an economic experiment on State support for shipbuilding industry. [[Registration number 10360]] Please vote. [[13:02:14]] For 265 Thank you. Copy that. We are considering a draft Act amending section XXI, paragraph 4, of the Customs Code on Taxation of Household Subjects that implement investment projects in priority areas of the economy, second reading, Who from the Committee? [[Registration number 11027]] Andrew Pinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u164	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting considered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Act on the Amendment to paragraph 4, 21 of the Customs Code of the Customs Code on Taxation of Economic Subjects, which implements investment projects in priority areas of the economy, [[Number 11027]] The purpose of the bill is to improve the legal regulation of the application of financial guarantees in the movement of goods across the customs border of Ukraine and the procedure for obtaining legal persons the status of the guarantor, exemption from taxes on imported goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by operators implementing investment projects approved in accordance with the Act on the Promotion of Investment in Priority Economic Areas with a view to creating new jobs for their own production. All in all, five proposals were made in the preparation of the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its second reading. Four of them, which relate to improving the legal regulation of the application of financial guarantees and the procedure for obtaining the status of guarantor by legal persons, as well as to clarifying the number of types of goods exempt from import duty when imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, are taken into account in whole or in part. One is that the transfer of the effective date of entry into force was rejected by law from 1 January 2013 to 1 January 2014. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending section XXI, paragraph 4, of the Customs Code on Taxation of Hostages, which implements investment projects in priority areas of the economy, in second reading and in general as a law. [[Registration number 11027]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u165	Thank you. Shall we vote? The rule of law was insidious. I put to the vote the proposal of the committee to adopt in the second reading and in general the Act amending section XXI, paragraph 4, of the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of taxation of economic operators that implement investment projects in priority areas of the economy, registration number 11027. Please vote. [[13:05:22]] For 260 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of taxation of economic operators that implement investment projects in priority areas of the economy, registration number 11028. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u166	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to say that these two bills, they are linked and introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, along with Bill 11026, are accompanying. The aim of these bills is to improve the conditions for investment in the priority sectors of Ukraine's economy to preserve existing and create new jobs. The purpose of this bill is to introduce the characteristics of taxation of added value taxes and income tax for enterprises and business entities that implement the investments in the priority sectors of the economy approved by law. The second reading of the bill was attended by 25 proposals, including a full - scale or a partial of 18,7 proposals. The reasons for such a decision on the committee are given in the table. The only one, there's one proposal from our fellow Europeans, it's supported by the committee, but unfortunately, it's just not working. He may sound, if possible. It's simple, it's very small.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u167	Come on. Thanks to Parliament. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, there was just a mistake. I was making an amendment, and it didn't end up on the table for good. We have in the Transitional Positions of the Ukrainian Tax Code subsection 1 and paragraph 6. If you read it, it turns out that taxes are being paid now, but at rates that were in effect 10 or 8 years ago, which is completely anachronism and wrong. Therefore, my proposal is simple: delete paragraph 6 from subsection 1 of the Transitional Regulations. Everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u169	Thank you. Does the committee support this?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u170	It supports this idea, it makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u171	The principal legal administration has made a point and has offered only for the third reading. But the committee proposes to accept it in the second reading as a whole. I put this motion to the vote, taking into account what Voropaev said and supported the committee. Please vote. [[13:08:04]] For 254 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on financial services markets]] [[Registration number 9583]] He will report to Prassolov Igor Mikolajovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u172	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The main purpose of the bill is to simplify the regulatory activities of the two financial non-bank regulators: The National Securities and Stock Market Commission and the National Commission for the Regulation of the Financial Services Market. A total of 14 amendments were made to the second reading. 5 of them are fully accounted for, 4 are editorially or partially and 5 have been forced to reject. It is also proposed that, I note, this law be enacted with effect from 1 January 2013. This is necessary to synchronize the entry into force of the various laws passed by our Committee and to predict regulatory policy. I ask for the support of the decision of the Committee, which is to adopt this law on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u173	Thank you. Shall we vote? Yuri Anatolyevich, I'll pay you back later. Please, Karmazin. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u174	Four. Yuri Carmazin, 4th Amendment. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national MPs, I propose in the second sentence of the second part of the first sentence after the words: “it cannot be less than 15 days” to add: “and not more than two months” and beyond the text. What is the matter, and what is the purpose of this change? It is aimed at clarifying the provisions of the bill, since it lacks the maximum time limit that can be set by the National Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, and during which observations and proposals are accepted for the acts of legislation of the National Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. The circle must be at least and maximum. I suggest, if we wrote less than 15 days, let's write "it's not more than two months." But that's perfectly logical, and that limits any kind of conspiracies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u175	As always, the offer of lawyer Karmazin is correct. I'll put her to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:10:57]] For the five of us. Not supported. Seven. Don't you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Carmine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you, Adam Ivanovich, both you and the national MPs who are reading the bill. In the second sentence of the second part of the second sentence, after the words "can't be less than 15", I propose that you write, "and there can't be more than two months." If you want, write a month, but write down the principle of determination that is always required of us today in the judgments of the European Court. We're always told, "Show us the definition." This is what I do to ensure that the maximum term set by the commission that regulates the state should be clear and clear. Because of this, I don’t know what’s in the way today. I don't understand the committee, I would have passed this law if I were you. It's okay. Write the maximum term. You think it's not two months, it writes a month, it writes three months, but some maximum term should be, if it's a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u177	Thank you. We've already voted on that. We'll vote on the proposal made by the comments. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. I'm voting on the proposal. And she's identical. Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Financial Services Markets, 9583. Please vote. [[13:12:52]] For 245 Copy that. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code, registration number 9347. [[on business taxation issues of the defence and industrial complex]] However, honourable colleagues, the committee has made a fair offer, because this bill is directly bound by Bill 10034, which has not yet been adopted, so we are not considering this bill on a committee proposal, because it has a bearing on Bill 10034, which has not yet become law. Yes. For the time being, let's get this straight. A bill amending the Ukrainian laws on architectural activity and licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. [[on the licensing of commercial activities in construction]] Registration number 10131. Second reading. The report is by Rybak Volodymyr Vasilovich. I don't see, ah, unfortunately, the table for the second reading is not prepared. Then we'll carry it too. Draft Civil Protection Code for Ukraine. Registration number 10294. Second reading. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich. It was somewhere in the morning. Unfortunately, the same situation did not give the committee a table. We're taking a look. Bill No. 9728-1 Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on citizenship. Second reading, but the letter is a committee “please move the bill to the next plenary week”. No objection, Your Honor? Then it's moving. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Free Legal Aid Act. Registration number 9496, also the committee did not prepare for second reading, is requested to be transferred to the next plenary week. It's moving. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Seeds and Vegetable Material. Unfortunately, the committee did not prepare for the second reading of Bill 6598. The discussion is being carried out. The draft Act on certain issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex – participants in the Ucroborprom State concert and ensuring their sustainable development. [[Registration number 10034]] Yes, please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Since the bill is very serious, and it is a strategic law for the development of the country's defence complex, but for unintelligible reasons the committee is simply sabotaging preparations for second reading, we strongly request that it be put to the vote in the second reading in the first reading, taking into account the amendments agreed upon with the Cabinet of Ministers and which Mr. Zabarsky, as the author of the bill, may sound. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u179	Mikhail Vasilovich, I'm sorry I didn't hear your last offer. Are we considering it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u180	We look at the second reading, we vote in the edition of the first reading, as the committee delays and sabotages preparations for the second reading. The bill is very important for the strategic development of the defence and industrial complex. But in the light of the three amendments that the author of the bill will make, the Zabarsky MPs who agree with the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u181	The law of the legislative initiative is not violated because the deadlines have passed and the committee has not prepared. Your amendments, yes, are broken, but we're going to be claiming to be a committee. Then I'm voting on Chechchev's proposal. Who is it that, based on the fact that the committee did not prepare the draft for the second reading in time for the second reading, a.k.a., the deadlines have passed, now in second reading, 10034 is a draft of the Law on certain issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex - participants of the Ucrobanprom State Company and ensuring their sustainable development? [[Registration number 10034]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:18:54]] For 228 Supported. So we're going to be looking at the law in the second reading, but in the first reading, in the first reading. Please, Zabarski. It's very simple. I'm explaining. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u182	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u183	Wait, Vladislav, wait. How can this be done? It's very simple. If it's a committee. If the committee has not prepared the matter in time, we have the right to accept it in the first reading. Do we? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there no time? You don't? All right, then. We voted, this is the decision of the Supreme Council, 226 votes. Please, Zabarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u184	So I ask, given that the committee has not prepared for the second reading, to make the following changes. First, to determine that, in view of the extension of the bill, the bill proposes to fix the debt on February 1st. I suggest we change it to September 1st. Another repair. Article 1, paragraph 1, after the words "reimbursement of pension benefits, including the cost of their delivery" add to the words "scientific pensions." Third. Exclusion from the text of the bill in article 4, paragraph 3, paragraph 7, and paragraph 8, of the bill is a reference to the Ukrainian Law on Certain Debt Issues for Natural Gas and Electricity which has become obsolete. Four. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 after the words “the defence and industrial complex” should be supplemented by the words “including those established by judicial decisions and restructured”. And in article 2, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, after the words “including” the words “established by judicial decisions” and paragraph 2, after the words “the defence and industrial complex” should be supplemented by the words “including a judicial decision and restructured”, paragraph 3 after the words “the defence and industrial complex” should also be supplemented by the words “established by judicial decisions and restructured”, paragraph 4 after the words “established by judicial decisions” should be supplemented by the words “and restructured”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u185	Yes, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I repeat and make a note of the head of the Grizzenka profiling committee, who consciously over the course of almost a year constantly, well, torpedoed the consideration of this issue and he made constant suggestions and on the Conciliation Council, and so forth. He has the right to speak, stand up for himself and not support the bill. But knowingly, he doesn't have that right to consider at a committee meeting. So I bet the Supreme Council voted to consider it in its first reading edition, taking into account the amendments that the drafter reads.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u186	Adam Ivanovich, I have my own amendments, let me put it this way. Adam Ivanovich. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u187	I'm putting to the vote Law 10034, the law on some, take down the vote. Please, Karmazin's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable National MPs. I, Adam Ivanovich, am addressing you, I am demonstrating my corrections, Mikhail Vasilovich, and I am also showing you, Mr. Chechtev, look, Mikhail Vasilovich, these are my corrections. In particular, the amendment goes to article 1, which is very important. I'm at eight points where I'm saying how to change exactly, in bold writing, and I'm saying that the debt write-off of enterprises, the defence and industrial complex as well as any enterprise before the Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment, the State-wide unemployment insurance fund, the Social Insurance Fund from accidents is dangerous and can lead to a reduction in the income portion of the budget, and so by the State's failure to implement social programs. It does not guarantee the social rights of citizens, and I note that part of the 7th Law on the Congregation and the single contribution to the general government social insurance is established that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u189	Please write down from each faction per minute. Sobole, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u190	Pass on the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u191	I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u192	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, BUT, Fatherland. Adam Ivanovich! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you, along with the majority, are in grave violation of the requirements of the Rules. The Rules do not provide for a time limit for the committee to prepare the bill for second reading. And according to article 50 of the Rules, you do not have the right to intervene in the legislative procedure except in cases defined by the Rules. You're depriving the MPs of their right to amend their second reading, and so I'm making a note, and I'm asking you to stop the hindrance that you're continuing in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u193	I remind you once again of the 228 votes made by the Supreme Council in order to look at it this way, you're making a perfectly fair observation, you're talking to your colleague, Grizzenka, who's violating your rights. Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! As you can remember in the first reading of this bill, you and I voted for it on one condition only, especially our faction, the Communist faction, that we would remove the issue of debt before. debt disposal to the Pension Fund. Now the question is to accept it as a first-reading paper, but I didn't hear from the subject of the legislative initiative whether there was this proposal that we agreed to then and voted in favour of the bill in the first reading right now. So I asked my colleague Zabarsky to explain. Thank you. And then we're just going to be determined to vote on this bill in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u195	Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u196	Please pass the word to Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u197	Blacksmith, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u198	Dear friends! Alexander Blackwolf. The Supreme Council can't act like any other body, either the Cabinet of Ministers or the President, or someone can act contrary to the Constitution of Law. The Supreme Council rules are the law that determines how the Supreme Council works. So you can't have 228 votes or even 450 votes, the Supreme Council can't vote once in a session, or you can't vote once in a session, or you can call for all the laws they're going to pass, and now you're doing something like this. The amendment to the bill is the same bill it has in accordance with our Rules the same force that the bill has. So we have to look at every amendment if the committee hasn't considered it, which means he has a reason. If we are not satisfied with the committee’s work, let us consider its work. But we have to consider this bill in the second reading and the amendments have to be prepared by the appropriate committee of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u199	Final, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u200	Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, it's not written anywhere that we have to pay the workers off after the sale. I mean, I'm going to insist that the wages are paid to all those working there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u201	Zabarsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u202	Dear colleagues! First of all, with regard to the observation of colleague Matthew, I would like to point out that the law provides for the actual cancellation of debts to the Pension Fund. But this write-off, first of all, predicts that for the amount of the written-off period, the period for which citizens' debt is written-off will be counted in the national register as paid-out. And the amount of debt written by the Pension Fund to the companies of the defence and industrial complex. It's going to be written off by a government treasury account before the Pension Fund. So the Pension Fund doesn't lose anything, there's actually a mutual account, and I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u203	Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u204	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, first of all, as far as the voting position is concerned without the second reading procedure, we're definitely against it. Because this bill, it's, you know, it's got a lot of emphasis today. I would like to address the representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine, if you hadn't supported this disgraceful bill in the first reading, there would be no such thing right now. Secondly, I support the thesis of our fellow MP who raised the issue of salary. But please tell me, any debt write-offs on the Pension Fund, will it give money to family budgets to people who haven't been paid? What are you saying? And what I want to say under the transcript is what it's all about. It's about the fact that businesses have accumulated large amounts of debt to be written down before the State Budget from companies participating in the Ucroborprom DK, 307 million dollars, 366 million dollars from social funds, and 146 million dollars from municipal services. That's the billion they took and wrote off because someone wanted to. We will not vote in favour of such bills and we do not advise anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, thoughts have been exchanged. I'm voting on the proposal: to adopt the Law on certain issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex -- participants in the State firm Ucroborinprom and to ensure their sustainable development (registration number 10034), taking into account Zabarski's proposals. I'd like to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:30:05]] Z-240 Decision taken. Yes, my fellow Members, we now have a draft law on the order of the organization and the conduct of peace-making (registration number).
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u206	We cannot now accept 9347 because Law 10034 has not yet become the law. Once it's signed by the President, he'll be the law. Then we can accept. You see, we've accepted him, but his fate is unknown: the President will not sign. He's not a law yet, he's still a bill. Draft Law on the organization of peace operations, Registration No. 2450. Please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u207	Thank you, dear Adam Ivanovich. We agreed that we would consider Bill 2450 and Bill 10569 by simultaneous vote. If we now consider 2450 on second reading, and Bill 10569 on first reading only, this may lead to suspicion that we will not consider 10569, and we will adopt it without appropriate clarification, so I would ask that the law be removed from consideration, considered on first reading 10569, and then, on the next plenary week, consider two bills together on second reading. Then there will be no misunderstandings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u208	So we're not looking at 2450. Let's look at the next one, then. Okay. Is there no objection? Then we are now considering a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on freedom of peaceful meetings, registration No. 10569, first reading. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:32:21]] For 201 Decision taken. Please report to the National MP Miroshnichenko. Get ready for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u209	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters, respected colleagues! Your consideration is proposed by the draft Law amending certain legislation on freedom of peaceful assembly, registration No. 10569. The bill is designed to improve the current legislation that regulates freedom of peaceful assembly. It is proposed to amend the Code on Administrative Offences in part of the clear definition of the composition of offences that entail administrative responsibility, as well as the reduction of sanctions for such offences; to the Code of Administrative Justice in the improvement of the procedure for judicial review in matters concerning restrictions on freedom of peaceful meetings and the removal of obstacles and prohibition of interference in the exercise of freedom of peaceful meetings. And to amend the laws of Ukraine, which propose to clarify the mandate of the relevant authorities to ensure freedom of peaceful assembly, to extend legislation on freedom of peaceful assembly to measures such as strikes and peaceful meetings of religious organizations, to free the parties from payment by the court. concerning restrictions on the freedom of peaceful meetings, the removal of obstacles and the prohibition of interference in the exercise of freedom of peaceful meetings. The bill is fully in line with the draft Law on the Order of Conduct, registration number 2450, which is currently under consideration by the Supreme Council and is preparing for second reading. I believe that these two bills should be adopted at the same time as a whole, allowing the right of citizens to hold meetings and rallies to the full. Dear colleagues, please accept Bill 10569 as the basis, shortening the deadlines for preparation for second reading. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u210	Thank you. From the Vladimir Olijnik Committee. You don't? Committee opinion: determine the bill by voting. The main scientific expertise is to get back to work. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u211	Please pass the word to Andrey Parubia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u212	Andrew Parubius. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u213	Dear Ukrainians! I want to inform you that this bill, like Bill 2450 on August 31st of this year, was sent to the Venice Commission for expertise. Under the laws and in accordance with the European direction of Ukraine, any bill that deals particularly with peaceful meetings should and may be voted upon after the relevant conclusions of the Venice Commission. That's why I'm addressing the chairman, and I'm addressing the members of the Supreme Council from most of them, who are consciously now creating repressive norms to further limit the peaceful gatherings of people, because they are aware of the great protest that is now taking place in society after your failed reforms and anti-Ukraine policies. On the eve of October 28, realizing what a wave of protest might be like, you are consciously conducting bills that will allow you not only to ban peaceful measures but also to persecute those who organize these measures. And while Mr. Jury claims that there is a reduction in the repression of rallying organisations, I would like to state that under European legislation there can be no persecution for the organisation of peace measures at all. And so the bills that are now being proposed, like the 2450 bill that they want to put on the second plenary week, on my deep conviction, cannot be considered in that session hall. If we really declare and have a commitment to the European Union and the OSCE, if we have determined that our priority is European values. I therefore urge, until we hold the conclusions of the Venice Commission, to withdraw these two bills from consideration and not to consider them, at least, in the parliamentary elections that will take place on 28 October of this year. Thank you, and I urge you all to make a wise, balanced decision to withdraw these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u214	Taran, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with the concept that both Law 2450 and this Law 10569 should be adopted together. But I want to say that it was completely in vain, and I don't understand why it was even removed without a vote from the consideration of the bill on how to organize peace operations. [[2450]] I'd like them to know that this is a bill. This bill provides for a clearly stated nature, a 48-hour application before the rally, and we don't need permission to do it -- it's a totally democratic norm, in Russia -- it's 10 days, in Georgia -- 15 days, in the United States, even more, we have, just like in Austria, a working group stopped and at that figure -- a 48-hour submission. For the first time in Ukraine, this law provides for spontaneous rallying. What does that mean? So you can not apply at all, people gathered for an event or an event, they're conducting, and the police are obliged? Is it a duty not to run, police duty? is about protecting these people who have come to express their position. For the first time, this bill states the right of citizens to perform so-called counter-promotions, countermutations, that is, when there is a position of one party, the other party without an application may hold a rally, a demonstration and express its position. I am very sorry that someone does not want this democratic law to be passed. I understand from Mr. Ephraim's speech that this is not what the Party of Regions wants, which, like fire, is afraid of democracy; which, like fire, is afraid of the word of the people especially in your struggles. And Ephraim went forth to be taken away. And I am very sorry that this bill is not being considered today. He received two fine conclusions from the Venice Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u216	Yes, please, Chechetov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u217	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to talk to the radio. We have to name names and laws. The law that I would now say has brought about the entire civil society in Ukraine, both in the West and in the East, is 2450, which was prepared by the Government of Yulia Timoshenko, who is violating democratic rights in Ukraine. And today the people came to the Supreme Council and said, "Don't take it." We're with the people, we won't take it. You don't have to tell me what a good law it is. It seems that the totalitarian sect has written this law so that there will be no demonstrations in Ukraine, no peaceful marching and so on. We won't take it. I tell the citizens again, we're with you both in the West and in the East of Ukraine! 2450 – The totalitarian law of Julia Timoshenko will not be adopted. We've prepared a new one today. Together with the Venice Commission, we will consult you both in the West and in the East, and we will adopt a law that is truly in line with democratic principles, European standards. We're going to Europe. And a totalitarian face.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on freedom of peaceful assembly. [[Registration number 10569]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:41:26]] For 205 Not supported. There's an offer to come back. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:41:50]] For 218. Not supported. We are considering the draft decree on 100th anniversary of the birth of Mikoli Amosova", registration number 11140. Shall we vote? I put to the vote the Supreme Council's Order on the Celebration of the Century From the Birth of Mikola Amos, registration number 11140. Please be supportive. [[13:42:32]] For 265 Thank you, copy. And thank you for understanding. We're looking at a draft decree on the amendment and establishment of the boundaries of the city of Kharkiv, Dergachev and Kharkiv district of Kharkiv district, registration number 11178. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. This is the decision of the hall. You said by decree. [[The voice from the hall.]] [[Unheard]] [[13:43:08]] For 218. A decision has been made. Report to the Vice-President of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u219	The Supreme Council allowed, voted, the Supreme Council of the Sixth Assembly. [[General Discussion]] You learn a few other words, so-called writer, because I'm going to tell you what you're writing and how you're writing. I'll quote you after you break up with Stus, okay? I quote, okay. Your comments are very cultural. Stus wrote to his son and gave you a good grade.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u220	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u221	I didn't think you needed to write.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u222	The Kharkiv District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a view to changing and establishing the boundaries of the city of Kharkiv district. The project of land change and bordering the city of Kharkiv is to be transferred to the city of 4450.58 hectares of land in the knowledge of two villages and one village council of the Dergachev region and six village and four rural councils of the Kharkiv region of Kharkiv. At the same time, give 52.32 hectares of land in the knowledge of the Kharkiv City Council to the village and rural councils of Dergachev and Kharkiv regions. After the project changes, the total area of Kharkiv district will be 3,5002,26 hectares. At the same time, in view of the change in the borders of Kharkiv, the total area of the Dergachev region of the Kharkiv region will be 89518.72 hectares and the total area of the Kharkiv area of the Kharkiv region will be 136431.33 hectares. The question of changing the boundaries of the city of Kharkiv is agreed according to the current legislation, discussed and supported by the village and rural councils: the town of Kharkiv, Dergachev and Kharkiv district councils, Kharkiv district councils, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian politics and land relations. The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on September 5, 2012 decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the submission of the Kharkiv District Council on the change and establishment of the border of the city of Kharkiv and taking into account the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u223	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u224	Two adjacent areas of Kharkiv region: Dergachevsky and Kharkiv district. Please ask the National Deputies to support the appropriate draft of the decree and to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u225	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Sign up. Yes, please, Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u226	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Kharkiv National Deputies, we urge you to support this bill. This is really a necessary thing today to develop the infrastructure of our hometown. And I have to pay attention to what you've heard, no rural and rural council from which these lands pass to the borders of the city of Kharkiv was against. So everybody: both the city, and the villages, and the villages around them, they support it and they ask you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u227	Yes, please, Chechetov. Pisarenko, please. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, you know, today we can do a good thing for not only the Kharkiv community, but in general, for many communities we can open the way of establishing boundaries today. This is very important in view of the very fruitful work of the committee led by Alexander Alexander Omelchenka yesterday. Today, an agrarian committee was working, and it also gave a positive response. And I am today speaking on behalf of the entire Kharkiv territorial community to the MPs, to the MPs of the Sixth Assembly, that this is certainly one of the historic decisions of the Parliament of this convening. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u229	Congrats, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, Ganushkak, Fatherland. Without protesting the essence of this particular project, I want to emphasize the problem that we have in solving these issues. We don't have the order in which the boundaries are approved, or actually, well, the map should actually be validated as such. Then look, you're giving, you're putting in Law 11043, which is where everything that's out of control is not clear who, then you're extending the boundaries of the city and they're getting burned land. So it's not communal property, it's already a land that's already been solved in some way. Next thing you know, it's a question of the development of the territory as such, whoever puts the pigsty about 200 meters away, and the ecology is already moving, and then they're demonstratively giving.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u231	Dear colleagues! The question is closed. I am voting on the decree to change and establish the boundaries of the city of Kharkiv, Dergachev and Kharkiv district of Kharkiv district, registration number 11178. Please be friendly. [[13:50:06]] For 244 The factions, please. The Party of Regions - 174, BUT did not vote - 0, "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 22, People's Party - 20, Reforms - 18, non-fractional - 10. Thank you, decision taken, set new limits to the city of Kharkiv. We're looking at a draft decree to take the village of the city type Wonder Wonderland region of the Žitomir district to the category of cities of district importance. Registration number 11175. There's an offer to consider a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:50:54]] For 210 Supported. Demchisten, please. Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u232	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Zitomir district council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a presentation on the placement of the town’s village of Wonder Wonderland in the region of Zitomir to the category of cities of district importance. The village of the town of Wonderland is the administrative center of the Wonderland region and is located 55 km away from Zitomir today in a townlike village of 5,000,800 people. The first historical mention of the Wonders goes back to 1416. In 1792, the Imperial decree of Wonderland assigned the status of the provincial city of Isiaslav to the Governorate, and over a half a millennium of Wonders was designated as a city, and only in 1924 the status of the city of Wonderland was changed to a village of city-type. In the area of the village works: It's a state-owned subsidiary of the Žitomir liquor plant, a limited liability company called Textyl Ecology and other businesses. There's a network of socio-cultural medical and educational institutions in the community. The village has considerable potential for tourism development in the area of Wonderful is preserved by monuments of national and cultural heritage and monuments of architecture of the 15th and 19th centuries. The question of placing a village of the city type Wonderland region of Žitomir district in the category of cities of district importance agreed. In accordance with the legislation, it was considered and approved by the Surprising Village, the Surprising District, and the Zitomir District Council. As a result of the consideration of the matter, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government adopted at its meeting on 5 July this year the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: in accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the first part, of the Constitution, the settlement of the city type of Miracles of the region of Žitomir to the category of cities of regional importance by adopting the relevant draft decree. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u233	Thank you. Yes, we'll vote. No one insists, apart from Hanushkah? Please, you're a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u234	Shamemaker, Fatherland. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, there's no such thing as a "city of district importance" in the Constitution. Second, we still use concepts that are hopelessly outdated, or regulations since 1989. Third, as the unfortunate one says, you get what you want when you go from village to city, they lose in budget terms. Why? Because there's calculations going on, and they're actually doing calculations in rural areas that give a lot more density, a lot of different density. That's why the rural area is still going to win more money than the city. So I'm only looking at this project as ambitious things. And lastly, this project isn't complete, it's incomplete, because you've just watched the project on the town of Kharkiv. If we are to move to the status of a city, we must, in accordance with the Constitution, approve the boundaries of this city. So we have to look at this project from the outside of town in the first place. Because now it's going incomplete, we don't know, and in this case, I think we need to postulate it, put it off for a while. A complete set of documents to prepare, to give a map of this city, to confirm that it really looks human. So without protesting that someone should be called. Well, we still have such an approach that this village is, so it's bad. In fact, the village is a huge prestige. Why would they do that? I don't understand. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u235	Thank you. I'm voting on a decree to take a village of the city-type Wonderland region of the Žitomir district to a category of cities of district importance, although it's not like the residents will lose out on what we're going to make, as Hanustak said. [[Registration number 11175]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:06]] For 256 Decision taken. I'm continuing for 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're looking at the draft Law on the Location, Design and Construction of Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the Hmelnick nuclear power station, please support the proposal for a simplified procedure. [[Registration number 11088]] [[13:56:40]] For 204 Supported. Reported by Deputy Minister Sergey Mikolayovich. Get Romanyuk ready. Please, operationally.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u236	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The bill, which you are proposing, is aimed at fulfilling the requirements of legislation in the area of deployment, design, construction of nuclear facilities of general state importance and the implementation of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Construction of Power Clouds of the Hmeln nuclear power station. The draft law defines the location of a particular site where the energy cloud is planned, the number of reactors, their type and general characteristics. The construction of project safety was carried out in TEO and received positive findings from state experts. In accordance with Ukraine’s international commitments, neighbouring countries were informed of the purpose of building energy - grids Nos.3 and 4, as part of the preparation of the TEO project, the environmental impact assessment did not reveal a cross-border impact. The construction project will be implemented at the expense of the State Enterprise Energoat and, in accordance with the ratified Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Russian Federation, the Agreement on Cooperation in the Construction of the Hmeln nuclear power station. Taking into account the urgency of solving the question of the construction of the energy grids Nos. 3 and 4 of the hop nuclear power station, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to accept the bill as a whole. mainly and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u237	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk, please, just the decision of the committee you've made.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u238	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee's decision is to take it in general. On the basis and in general, the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u239	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I think we can talk here, not talk, but it's clear that we need electricity and blocks to build. All necessary procedures have been completed. And even Hanusztak supports it. Doesn't he? Well, please, one minute, Pancake, and we'll be clear. Well, two minutes. Because I'm giving you out of line and out of record, that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u240	Ladies and gentlemen! Hanustak, Fatherland. So let's think about this in these areas. First. Political. We're sitting on Russia's needle again. So the blocks, the equipment that was preserved 20 years ago, are now within the limits of the credit that we're taking from them, and they have the same prices that we're being indexed with. In addition, we lie under their full-time technology, and in this respect, it's impossible to talk about diversification. The other thing that's coming. We now have a surplus of electricity, and we're selling it abroad cheaper than we are selling it here in Ukraine. Why do we need it? Third thing. Nobody knows how to get the same nuclear power plants to a level, what's called a green halo. And we don't have the same nuclear shelters yet. So we're going to pay Russia for it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u241	Please continue for two minutes. One more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u242	Now here's the next thing. Safe. It's already been calculated when they stopped. I'm a hoper, I took part in these rallys that were 20 years ago. And I remember very well what the conclusions were back then. Now the first two blocks of water are not enough to cool down. So there's got to be a serious enough flow of water to make the charge go away. It's an area where there's no water. We want to run another friction and a fourth. We're now launching a hydroaccumulating station that's going on the Dniester, which will basically allow us to balance the regional electricity balance. And what we want to do is we want to run more power grids at a time when all of Europe is giving up nuclear energy and developing energy and energy savings. Of course, they're encouraging us to put this dirty production in our territory, and then they're buying us electricity for nothing. Do we want to be a raw supplement again?Oh, my God! Why is it necessary?Oh, my God! We have to be sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if I am not mistaken when the Chernobyl AES was closed, there were promises that would be added not only to the sarcophagus but also to the construction of the 3 and 4 energy clouds of the Hmelni AES. But that's just a promise, not a promise. Then we should thank Russia, which did not promise, but gives instead of shouting. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt the Law on the Location, Design and Construction of Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the Hmelnicka Nuclear Power Station. Please vote. [[14:02:53]] For 253 Thank you. The law is passed. Let them build. I announced another one. We'll take a look and take a break. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving the Activities of the Prosecutor's Office, Registration No. 11074. Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. [[14:03:27]] For 213 Supported. Filipenko Volodymyr Philipovich, please. Bessie's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u244	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill to improve the activities of the prosecutor's office. At first glance, it's just a bill that changes laws, but I want to assure you that the standards that are proposed for adoption are specifically aimed at reforming the powers of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office. They are systematic, balanced and balanced in their population, capable of actually modernizing this state institution. A real legal mechanism will be created to prevent arbitrary violations of human rights and freedoms. As authors, we believe that the adoption of this bill will create all the conditions for the full existence of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office in civil society. The standards offered for your consideration can be called both revolutionary and evolutionary, since they significantly reduce the impact of the prosecutor’s authorities on the activities of individuals and legal persons. You could say that this is going to happen from the adoption of this law, not the modernization of powers, but the modernization of the prosecutor's worldview. Let me give you just a few examples of what we're proposing to change. First of all, it's to minimize acts of prosecutorial response, as for civil society, there's too many of them. We suggest that we leave the decision and the motion alone. And such acts of reaction, such as prescriptions, will remain in the past. The prosecutor’s application will only become a recommendation, not a requirement for execution. In fact, in order to protect his position, the prosecutor will now have to appeal to the court every time. Therefore, any negative consequences for citizens or legal persons will arise solely on the basis of a judicial decision. At the same time, any prosecutor's review with the adoption of this bill will be possible only by means of a reasoned prosecutor's order. Moreover, the prosecutor’s actions and the prosecutor’s actions regarding such a review could be brought before the court. Believe me, this severely restricts general supervision, because there was no such judicial review of the years of existence of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office. We are also significantly reducing the number of grounds for the prosecutions to represent the interests of citizens in court, and we are making this list really exhaustive. The bill also severely limits the power of prosecutors to initiate judicial review of decisions that have become legally binding. I would also like to stress with pleasure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u245	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bev Valeriy Ananiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, I will begin with what my colleague Philippeenko has said: The bill severely narrows the power of prosecutors. And so in preparing for our committee's second reading, along with the drafters of this bill, we need to take it seriously and balancedly so that we and the water do not mold, including the child. Because the prosecutor is the prosecutor, and the state's eye is supposed to be in the state. The National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, having heard a report by one of the authors of the Vladimir Philippenk bill, spokes by representatives of the Attorney-General's Office, scientists from the National Academy of Law, Jaroslav Wise, Odessa National Law Academy, other experts, concluded that the first reading should recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Please support your consideration of the committee's decision and allow me to shorten the procedure for preparing the bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u247	Thank you, Valery Ananiyovich. Besides Hanushkak, does anyone insist? Please sign up. He'll still sign up because he's alone in a faction. Garbage, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u248	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I think that me and you, including you, are confident that it is time to put order in the perspective that the law enforcement organs of our system should not be excessive, I would say so, to intervene in the economic activities of subjects who are actually doing some kind of product or production or jobs in our country. This has happened, in recent years, at my point of view, that if you read any law that we have passed for a particular body, that is, the B.O.B., that concerns the D.A., that concerns the tax office, that we are talking about "organised crime," or we are consciously implying that all crime and the whole country are organized in our country, and all citizens, whether we are saying that there is such a phenomenon, and we need to be careful about it, and not to stigmatize all the subjects that are currently engaged in the real economy in our country. Thus, this fear of organized crime, which is imposed on a media society, frightens society, frightens people who are capable of doing anything. As part of the reform of the law enforcement system, in the context of job creation, in the context of stabilizing Ukraine's economy, we as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including we need to understand that it is time to act in accordance with the Constitution and bring some other norms accordingly into line with the real situation that will be aimed at supporting the manufacturer or indeed the person who lives in our country. So that's the first step, and I think the committee, there's some pre-light experts, there's going to be a second reading that will lead to, right, one or the other article. I believe that, including the reaction of the Public Prosecutor's Office, it should remain within its competence as the Attorney General's Office in general and in its jurisdiction under the law. But the narrowing of the issues that are being dealt with today, especially in the economic sphere of our lives, must be stopped immediately and immediately cut off.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u249	Thank you. Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u250	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Valerius Pisarenko, because today he came in a blue jacket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u251	Please, Pisarenko. Sons from the DA's office?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u252	Dear Adam Ivanovich, as one of the co-authors of this bill, wanted to ask his colleagues to support this bill so that you and I could complete the logical course that we have taken with you to reform justice, criminal justice, including. We'll soon see the results of the new Criminal Procedure Code. This bill today, which we are considering, is actually a logical extension of our work. And it seems to me that, at this stage, the Parliament of the Sixth Assembly has done more than the other convocations of this Parliament of Ukraine. I will vote in favour of this bill, and I hope that this reform will not end. We still have a lot of work to do to make both criminal justice and the judicial system look much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u253	Thank you. Please, you're a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u254	Jury's shame, Fatherland's. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, in principle, is not so bad, but it is not full. Look, they're back, let's make it illegal, the Constitution, and there's no such thing as control on the part of the procurator, there, the local council. I won't. And here it is. And look what you're doing. Yes, he can protest and so forth. At what time can he do so? Now, look, the prosecutor of Kiev is suddenly getting a glimpse of the distaste that was made by the Montenegrin, Long and other "young team." Oh, something wrong, oh, you ripped the earth apart, and when it was back then, why didn't it react? So you definitely have to set the term that he's bound to in case he sees -- stop, not stop, it's not his question, it's his question, it's his question. Then – coordination of the activities of the force structures. Why the prosecutor? Why should the prosecutor coordinate the activities of the power structures? Take a look at how power is essentially in place. We have at the very top coordination of the force structures by the President. Therefore, the President’s representative, the head of the Administration, should be coordinated below. Obviously, changes to the Constitution should be made quickly enough to ensure that the head of the Administration is deprived of completely inappropriate budget authority and replace both self - rule and executive authority. But let's start with a little one. We need to start by saying that the person appointed by the President down here should at least know what's going on in his territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-06-m0.u255	Thank you. You must want to be a representative of the President. I put to the vote, the discussion is concluded, a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the activities of the prosecutor's office to adopt it in the first reading. Please vote. [[14:14:07]] For 248 Copy that. And there was a profile committee proposal, and I'd like to support it -- shorten the deadline for preparation for second reading. Please vote. Let's take a look at it in the next plenary. [[14:14:33]] For 253 Thank you. Decision taken. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. At 16 o'clock, let's continue to work on all the issues that are scheduled for today.
