ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:29]] They registered with 380 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! June 22 is a day of mourning and honouring the memory of the victims of the war in Ukraine. Please, fellow believers, honor the memory of our fellow countrymen who gave their lives for Ukraine as a nation. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on June 21st. 23 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 14 laws and 10 regulations were passed, 3 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been adopted in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, 1 law is aimed at redrafting. The honourable national deputies, in accordance with the requirements of Rule 2, made a proposal for a recess to be announced in order for them to be able to make a statement. Roman Zabzaluk will make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u2	Respectable citizens! The lying accusations made at Timoshenko’s address on two occasions, of course, do not involve Judge Yanukovich and his associates in the criminal regime of Azarov and Kuzmin, which are exclusively a brutal provocation. Because in an anticonstitutional way, by usurping power in the state, they are effectively conducting investigations and sentencing themselves. These people have imagined themselves to be a Stalinese trinity, which can not only suck up colossal resources from the country, but also commit self-justice and break the fate of millions of people. They defiantly ignore the rights and freedoms of citizens, disregard the laws, the Constitution, the Parliament. In particular, last week, in an official statement, we requested written explanations from Mr. Azarov, on which documents he referred, accusing the leader of the opposition of where and on what grounds he received them. We have not received an answer, and this only testifies to what has been said and illustrates the falseness of his information to the native media. At the same time, according to the content of these nonsensees, Victor Fedorovich told the Western media about Julia Timoshenko, he was afraid of Timoshenko and the sense of inevitability of paying for his regime’s crimes and trying to become her cat. That's why, instead of channelling budget spending on essential assistance to teachers, medics, peasants, pensioners, unprotected population groups, the regime illegally and uncontrollablely spends enormous public spending on the establishment of its property, residences, palaces, elite property abroad, on the maintenance of an excessively dispersed repressive state machine, on the fabrication of so-called criminal cases, and also rents for budget money questionable foreign legal companies, with only one goal: to in any way distort the lie about Julia Timoshenko, which the authorities are trying to feed our citizens and to please the eyes of the world community. We remember well. As the government of Azarov has already hired foreign companies to try to find at least the smallest abuses in the activities of Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. However, apart from spending from the government budget, this did not work out. It becomes quite clear that if loud statements and accusations were made by representatives of the authorities of the "chronosises", the prosecutors, the judges, the authorities, no one believes in Ukraine or beyond. The world has acknowledged that in the country of Yanukovich and the Party of Regions, criminal dictatorship is being established, and Julia Timoshenko, as the most dangerous person for the current regime, is being imprisoned solely because of political activity and her principle of unbreakable patriotic stand. Therefore, we claim that Julia Timoshenko is a political prisoner, and she must be released immediately. We believe and know that the regime will not be able to enslave Ukraine. Ukraine will win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u3	Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. Today, the main report from the government will be Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine Anatoly Mikhailovich Bliznyuk. We've got it for us. Government members present who are not on board. We have 54 minutes to do this, so. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg of you, dear fellows. I invite Anatoly Mikhailovich Bliznik to answer the questions that the members of the groups sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in writing. Then we will communicate directly with the Ukrainian national deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, to implement the decision to hold the Year of Questions to the Government, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine came up with written questions from the deputy factions, totalling 19. After examining all the questions on the subject, I will report. The first block is housing and utilities. "What is the level of provision of centralized water supply to the Ukrainian population?".. In total, 63.9 people were provided with central water supplies in the country. The urban population is provided with central water supply of 83.3 percent, rural supply of 24.6 percent. The water supply system is mostly built in Soviet times and the level of wear-out of the core funds is on average 54 percent of the country’s total. Cleanhouses have the highest tolerance — 58 percent. "Does the country's drinking water quality standards meet the world's quality standards?" State health standards and regulations, hygiene requirements for drinking water intended for human consumption, based on European and world standards. They became effective in 2010. Some of these requirements will start working since 2013. Yet, there is today. there is no laboratory equipment on the watersheds in the indicator line. That's why the U.K. Drinking Water program has a section called "Facilities for drinking water and sewage quality control laboratories with modern control and analysis equipment." As part of this program, we plan to gradually provide the lab with the necessary equipment from the regions. The most complex water quality situation is the Eastern regions. "What specific measures and projects are being implemented by the Ministry to perform the tasks envisaged by the state-wide drinking water target?" For the implementation of the tasks and actions of the state-wide target programme, the 2012 budget provides 200 million for the construction and reconstruction of watersheds using new technologies and equipment in areas with the highest water deviations from established standards, the introduction of drinking water treatment stations in central water supply systems. In addition, this year there are 640 million bracelets for the reconstruction and construction of cleaning facilities and other facilities to protect the Azo-Black Sea Basins and the Dnipro Rivers and the Silver Donate from pollution. Costs will be aimed at modernizing centralized water systems, introducing new technologies for sewage treatment. The funds of the European Investment Bank, donor organizations, are also planned to develop water and water systems in cities, villages, and villages. "Do you think there are prospects for the development of central water supply in the private sector in the villages? Is it worth encouraging every household to have an individual water well?" Regrettably, not every individual well can meet the established modern standards of water quality. Putting a cleaning station on every well is very expensive and irrational. Thus, centralized water supply in villages can and should exist. There must be one large well that provides the proper flow of water, and it should be equipped with the necessary cleaning systems. Then the water will be quality. Similar projects are also being considered in the framework of the Drinking Water Program of Ukraine. "How do you increase the responsibility of enterprises that pollute systems by discarding rivers and lakes?" We understand the importance of this matter. So, together with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, we are working out an optimal system of responsibility. In our view, first of all, strict environmental control is needed, then high fines are required for violators. Their size should allow the state to clean and rehabilitate surface waters and water wells. Environmental fines should be really high. But control is the basis of this activity. According to international experience, there are no other ways of influencing pollutants. "What measures are proposed by the Ministry for the development of the legal framework and the economic use of water?" First of all, a technical and commercial water survey at all levels that will allow you to see all the narrow cities. If we learn how to count water, save it, we'll find incentives to save drinking water and energy resources. The adoption of a decision at the legislative level on the implementation of commercial accounting will contribute to this. I'd like to say that more questions were in drinking water and water, and that's understandable in this weather, but we're preparing to work in winter conditions, and although most of our questions were essentially drinking water supply, I want to point out that we can't look separately at other life-support systems in particular and prepare for a new heating season. Along with local authorities, we use the summer repair period to repair and modernize all systems. The installation of technological and commercial equipment in utilities is currently under way. Also this year, for the first time, on the basis of fiscal lending, we have proposed to local communities to set up individual heat points and other systems in the field of heat supply for a comprehensive solution to the problems of the entire city, not a separate house. "The draft Housing Code, which is under consideration in the Supreme Council, protects the rights of the unemployed, not the rights of most citizens, but the interests of building, energy, utilities, finance and other magnets. Why doesn't the authorities regulate tariffs at both the state and local levels?" Tariffs. I'm talking about this, first of all, they have to be economically sound, they have to fully cover the cost of services in order to ensure the profitability and development of the sector, in order to ensure normal work, but social protection also has to be ensured, and the state assumes these commitments. And a citizen, if he can't pay these tariffs, the state guarantees social protection through a system of benefits and subsidies. The State’s tariff policy is regulated by national regulators and local authorities according to legislation. A block of questions for the President's initiative on affordable housing. The mortgage - costing program has begun to work. And what I'd like to say right now is that it's a whole system that starts with us putting funds through these mechanisms to build what's already started to be built, and we're also rebuilding the construction system on the new sites that the land gives local authority, it's making networks, and the builders are building cheap social housing. And it's still going to include this mortgage scheme. To date, a necessary legal and regulatory framework has been established for the implementation of the programme. In April, the government approved an appropriate order, developed all mechanisms and steps for budgetary financing. For the maximum comfort of citizens who want to get credit, there are only one windows. A person can directly receive information from a developer, a banker, or a banker. There has been an increase in the number of banks that have reported participating in the program, as well as in the areas where they will work. In order to inform citizens more widely about the progress of the President's social initiatives on mortgage lending on the official website of the region, there is a communication platform for all interested groups and citizens, and bankers and builders. The government decree defines the terms and conditions for obtaining loans under the program. There is a portrait of the borrower, there is a portrait of the apartment that can be offered to him, the calculated cost of housing by region. The selection of objects for participants is carried out by the local executive authorities. The 2012 budget provides 1 billion dollars for partial interest and on June 1, the first 30 million dollars are sent to the region. The program is already starting to work, but I'm saying that this is the first phase of a building program that's already being built. In addition, the parallel new housing program, based on new technologies, in Ukraine alone, has now shown a desire to obtain subsidized mortgages. The builders have provided 4,000 710 apartments and 50 contracts have been fully booked and recalculated. There are problems that we are dealing with with with and correcting the situation quickly. A month later, the adoption of the first decree has already been revised in May of this month, and we are now working on removing some of the questions that people are asking. We're working on a system that allows those who can buy housing in the secondary market, let them do it, who can build housing without involving the credit system, let them do it. And the state is going to design and work a system that helps those types of people who can't build themselves. I thank you for asking. I am ready to answer your oral questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, all written questions are answered. We now move on to questions directly from the Ukrainian national deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Yes, when you sign up, please indicate your name on the sign. Vladimir Moisik, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u6	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Please pass the word to Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u7	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u8	Vladimir Karpuk. Dear Anatoly Mikhailovich, recently in Lutsk, the entire house was demolished as a card house and the house was broken. There's expertise, but it's very doubtful about people, because there's virtually no prior technical documentation, and the actual reconstruction that was done in this house, the destruction of the resistance wall, has led to this tragedy. People are concerned about the rest of their lives, and today the Prime Minister will be asked about the allocation of apartments and generally these residents of the house. But it bothers the other. 90 percent of the data from the various urban communities on these buildings, which were built between 70 and 80 years, does not have technical documentation. The reconstruction that takes place under the authority often destroys all these structures and will lead to these tragedies. What can the Ministry do about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u9	Thank you. Well, first of all, in Lutsk, it didn't fall down, but between the driveways this, let's say, space. But, really, on the first floor, there were, there were earlier reconstruction works. There's no final conclusion from the experts yet, but we do understand that this building that was built, and the bricks and the panels, it's all there in 1971. The experts will draw their own conclusions, all decisions on how to provide people with apartments are now taken, and the government administration's proposals are made, and we are preparing for a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers. And given that it doesn't go any further, it's the same thing, I'm sorry, and you, Mr. Karpuk, have made such a decision that we're going to liberalize the construction market and we're saying that Category I-II is not licensed, it's only Category IV-V. And the reconstruction people are doing according to the statement, I wrote: I'm going to do it. But we need to liberalize, on the one hand, so that people can work more freely, but the system of responsibility for these jobs has to be, let's say, tougher. And the certification system, which is now, allows us to take on the personal responsibility of those who make decisions about the realignment of a building. There is a system in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u10	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u11	Honorable Anatoly Mikhailovich, local construction and architecture authorities, and deputies are often approached by many residents of the area who live in one, two - story dwellings, which consist of two, four, and more apartments on the issue of building permits, buildings, farm buildings, and garages. According to the City Planning Act, there is no possibility to grant such permission, no output for design. Since the applicant must have a document demonstrating ownership or use of the land. If there are two or more apartments in the house, the land area can only be privatized to a common compatible property. For the most part, there's at least one owner of an apartment who refuses to privatize the land and then a citizen who wants to build a building on such an area can't do that. Don't you think it was necessary to make changes to the Law that I called it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u12	Well, please, name the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u13	The Law on Regulation, Amendments to the Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities, amends the law to simplify the possibility of building a one-, two-story building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u14	Thank you. There are different thoughts. And when one person there disagrees or is more than one, there is a legislative framework that allows them to solve these issues. I got a call from the same Lutz, OSBB, five-story house. They have it in their possession and they say, a businessman came to us, saying, I'm building a mansard floor and I'm going to give you a full housewarming, you're going to pay less. So, perhaps when collective owners make such a decision and make a deal, it is possible. But there must be only a project ahead. There's got to be a design solution for the building, a reconstruction. That's the first one. And then the treaty and all the mechanisms that allow these things to be done. That's not the point, but I want you to hear me. 93.6 percent of Ukrainian housing is privatized. But we continue to privatize every time. We gave people square meters in houses, not a complete property complex. We need to complete privatization, give people a complete structure of the building, of the instigator territory. And then they'll be the masters after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u15	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u16	Dear Anatoly Mikhailovich, well, it's obvious that the legal framework that is now being formed under the regulation of all the processes of the JCC is being translated into the pitiful salaries and pensions of the people. That's obvious. There's one moment. At the same time, over the past two years, 420 billion dollars have been disbursed from the country and 80 billion tax and other payments have not been paid. Would it not seem to you that if there was an appropriate resource, there would be a lot of problems in the country that could be solved, including in the country's housing and utility complex? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u17	Well, let's say so, I'll tell you that's not an obvious problem, as you said. And everyone, as the first president said, should wash their plow. So I'm going to tell you that the state is now guaranteeing people through a system of benefits and subsidies not to raise tariffs. In the heat supply, 51 percent of the tariffs are offset, 69 percent. Well, you're waving your head around. I'm talking about numbers, you're talking about politics. So this is our problem at all, which we have to solve. And I agree with you 100 percent that the state has to invest in the reform of the housing system. And when you vote for the budget, I'll see your comments about what you're offering there in addition to housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u18	Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u19	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Justice, Mr. Lavrinovich. I'd like to ask him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u20	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u21	The president has been giving us a lot of interviews lately. He interviewed Bloomberg, where he said that crimes committed in various criminal cases were committed at the hands of Timoshenko. It's not a secret for the whole world, it's happened, including the murder of the Dagger. There were motives. I mean, I'd like to know when the President became a prosecutor and determined his motives. On May 31st, the President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, stated that Ukraine had invited international experts and lawyers to give an expert opinion on the case of ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko. On May 24, 2012, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine signed an agreement with the American legal firm Skadden, which will examine the trial materials and send them, and will conclude. I wonder if there was a tender. If so, when? Who conducted this tender? Because, in principle, we want to know how the budget is spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'll offer Anatoly Mikhailovich a seat. If there are questions, he will also answer so that he does not stand. That'll be the questions, you'll ask him, he'll answer. And now, please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u23	Honourable national MPs, the issue of making contracts with the Ministry of Justice with legal companies is regulated by the current legislation of Ukraine, it provides for tendering as well as for other purchases, starting with a certain amount. The amount of the contract with the American companySkadden is less than that amount, and it did not foresee a mandatory tender. In this way we have a treaty with the Justice Ministry to study the circumstances of the case concerning the appeal of a Ukrainian citizen to the European Court of Human Rights in order to help shape the position of the government in the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u24	Naydenov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Sergei Vladimirovich Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u26	Sergei Gordienko, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u27	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Anatoly Mikhailovich, I have a very important question for you. In an interview with the Derkal of the Week, you said that there is a planned territorial reform in 2013. According to you, more than 9,000 local councils, village councils, should be eliminated. As you said in your interview, this will be done by means of a kangaroo and a spice. This caused great anxiety for the population, especially for the rural population. People realize that the burden itself will be transferred to their shoulders, the full financial burden. Is it appropriate for the entire nation to be involved in such a large - scale adventure, or could any experiment be conducted on the basis of one of the areas?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u28	Thank you. But, let's say, something that's going to happen tomorrow, I never said or said. Here is Matthewnko, and the draft law, which is in the Supreme Council, is the same. So we're saying that there are communities in the state of Ukraine right now, and I'm not going to say how many and what area, less than 500 people. And then we tell people, we give opportunities, and the state stimulates, it says, "People good, carry out your referendums under the Local Referendum Act, make a decision on unifying efforts. The state will encourage you. And you will be self-sufficient." And it's not the principle that you're talking about right now, that you're talking about, when everyone looks like that, when the state gives it. There's no such thing in the world. Communities have to be self-sufficient. And if there are those who need help, then, well, let's say so, a meaningful state is going for it. Where, though, can you get the money when you throw potatoes at the Supreme Council? Where does this money come from?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u29	Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u31	Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u32	Dear Anatoly Mikhailovich! Thank you for your extensive information on the work of your ministry, thank you for your professional answers, for your true answers. You're telling the truth, thanks for that, for the truth. And you know this year is under the flag of the President's social initiatives, whose implementation is welcomed by ordinary people. And especially, people hope for one element and watch closely how it will be implemented, and young families, and families with little wealth, it's the "Available Housing" program. Please tell us what is being done in this direction and how it will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u33	Well, I already said, in general, the program can't be implemented within a month there or even a year. This is a programme for many years, since the question of Luke has been asked, and others have problems. So we have a place to renovate, spend money, and sooner or later it's going to have to be, let's say, worn out. We are therefore saying that today, through this mechanism, we are giving people the opportunity to have housing in unbuilt homes. And they make their own decisions. But in the future, we're going to a system of land preparation, infrastructure, technology. [[He came for the potato.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u34	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u35	If you do not respect yourself, respect others!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u36	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u37	I'm calling the national deputy Laity: please don't hesitate to answer, don't interfere. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u38	So let's say so, specifically, if you're listening and listening. Now we're using 186 kilowatts per square metre, and in Europe we're using 50. We're 4 times more using the gas that we don't have, which we're expensive to buy. So building technologies will provide European standards, and they will be green houses and economics. And this is the strategic perspective that the President has put before us to carry out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u39	Vladimir Stretović, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u40	Kulikov, please, Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u41	Kirilo Kulikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u42	I have a question for Valery Ivanovich Horoshkowski. Valery Ivanovich, I have a question for you. [[Deputy Kulikov]] You know, at this sessional week, the Supreme Council, once again, thanks to the efforts of a number of deputies who support the corruption schemes for the production of forms in Ukraine, has postponed the Biometric Passports Act. [[10381]] According to the First Queue Action Plan, we were to adopt this bill in June as a country. You know, I've already said by repeating the words of the great Martin Luther King, "I have a dream" -- "I have a dream." Others say something else, but we have a dream: to be in Europe. What is the government going to do to adopt this bill, this is the first? And what the government's going to do is to implement the President's decision to remove corruption schemes, schemes, you know, the EDAPS consortium from passport forms and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u44	Of course, the government is in the position that the bill is, unfortunately, already being put into Parliament several times. I agree with you, Your Honor, that, unfortunately, we are delaying the completion of the legislative phase of the visa-free regime with the European Community. We have only one possibility as in the government for today is to ask Parliament once again to adopt this legislative act, and for my part, I will work with the European Commission to postpone the third report, so-called, which may allow us to do so, if not in this session, at the beginning of the new session. As for the application of different schemes, as you said, our task is the following: we want the Ukrainian combination to have enough equipment to print all documents, including passports with biometric data by the end of the year. That's why we're working in these two directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u45	Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u46	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Mr. Minister, well, you have to announce to the whole country: at what cost did the American company get orders from you? Because these are public finances, and still, this American company is going to raise awareness, and you're not going to hide it. Secondly, well, I've looked at the law, for today it's just services that less than a hundred thousand dollars, really, are not advertised under such services. Are you saying that the American company here is going to work for $12,000? But they're only going to be able to afford tickets. So please tell me, for the entire country, at what cost did you order an American company? Because you remember the fine fate of the minister of ecology, Philippchuk, who stopped the criminal scheme "Venko Prikerchenska", and then took responsibility for it. And you don't want to call that money. Please give me a call.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u47	The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, in strict compliance with Ukrainian legislation, has made a deal with the world-renowned American companySkadden for less than a hundred thousand dollars. The treaty signed by both sides is signed and executed by both sides. And we're going to get a proper report from this company, which will be used by the Ministry of Justice in preparing the positions of the Cabinet of Ministers in the relevant case before the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u48	Alexander Bobilov, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u49	National Deputy Bobilev, MP “Reforms for the Future”. I have a question, not even a question, but information to the Ministry of Infrastructure. The thing is, well, the work of Aeroworld for today isn't easy. You know, there's a lot of feedback from the citizens that they don't fit any more. Planes are systematically delayed from three to six hours to take off, ticket prices. You know, well, it's just funny: a ticket to Dnepropetrovsk's economy class costs 2,600 bracelets. If you land a regular citizen in Kiev and back, he has to pay 5,200 bracelets. [[People are in different situations.]] Where would an ordinary citizen take that kind of money? The ticket to Donetsk is worth 3,100 greven. I wish we could figure out the prices and the order of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for your questions. Indeed, since the beginning of the Euro-2012, Airworld has seen a delay in a number of flights. We have had a number of meetings, and this issue has already been resolved completely today. How has this matter been resolved today? Airworld received today. Two long-distance planes came out of repair. They got three Embraer-type planes on time charter and we passed them through a financial lease from Antonova's AN-148 AN. So the question is solved. When it comes to ticket prices, airline tickets in the United States. Kyiv-Donetsk's ticket is worth 720 bucks. [[B in m in s a l in]] If you order it in 30 days. The airline operates a system where the price rises according to a percentage of the airplane’s utilization. If you buy it in five minutes before the plane, it can cost 2.5 and 3,000 dollars. This situation is working in all European countries. And Ukraine is organizing the sale of our tickets through two European known systems. So if you're saving tickets in 30, in 20 days, there can't be absolutely no such problem. If there are specific cases, turn around, and we will consider and give a qualified answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u52	Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u53	Thank you. Please pass the word to Catherine Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u54	Katerina Vaschuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u55	Katerina Vaschuk, Volin. I have a question for Valery Ivanovich Horoshkowski, First Vice Prime Minister, and I don't see the Minister of Health. Dear Valery Ivanovich, many fine initiatives and programs have now been initiated by the government, and they find a favorable response and understanding of the population. But recent meetings with people have made it necessary for me to look to the government to initiate another very responsible program, namely, the quality of food. I've had women retirees come to see me, they've brought a sausage like that, it's cheap, but it's not eaten by a cat or a dog at home. This raises concern for people. This makes people sick, people sick, from such food.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u56	Please, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u57	Dear Catherine Timothy, the government pays considerable attention to quality, including food. You know, unfortunately, we have a number of test organs on this issue that are going to go to waste. But as you said correctly, it doesn't add quality. So, of course, I support that proposal. And you know that today there's a law that's been introduced to Parliament about the quality of food, it's related to the organization of the body that's going to do it, it's part of it. So what I'm saying is that this is our work with you, it's meant, including an agrarian committee. And we think that once the food quality control system itself, as well as the punishment system for non-quality products, is fully implemented, including in legislation, the government will, of course, have a tool for more influential control in this sector of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u58	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u59	I have a question for Anatoly Mikhailovich. Dear Anatoly Mikhailovich! You know that the banking system that is currently funding the real economy of Ukraine is often not fully focused on our businesses and industries to develop, because very large interest rates. Together with that year, the government and the Supreme Council supported the lending of housing. Please tell me, under "Affordable Housing," which banks have agreed to finance if you have such information? How this process takes place in reality today and in life, and what costs today are allocated specifically for this "Available Housing" programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u60	Thank you. The National Bank has identified the banks of the first and second groups. There are now nine banks in the program, and there are three banks in the regions that said they're ready to work. A billion in the state budget is allocated, we're the main managers of the funds, we've determined according to the lower level directors' orders, these are the district government administrations. And for June, the first 30 million we had, we put it in the region on June 1st, so let's say, we divided by population, and then we're going to look at where the nuances are. In Kiev and Kiev, 30 percent of all housing in the country was built that year. Hence, there may be some faults. But there's no problem at this point right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u61	Eugene Chago, "BUT is the Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u62	Please tell Yuri Hanushtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u63	Yuri Hanustak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u64	I have a question for the Minister of Regional Development. This is the regional development I'm interested in. In fact, in this direction you folded, you gave to the other ministries everything. We gave you the Regional Development Fund, you gave it to the Mine Economics. The law on admin is free of charge, as is all the projects that have been coming out of it lately. The concept of reform of local reform was overturned. Why don't you come to the Prime Minister and explain to him that power is being implemented in three dimensions: regulatory, financial, and spatial? And stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u65	Please, Anatoly Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u66	You know, like the other MPs, that we've drafted draft legislation that takes into account your work. We put them on the Supreme Council, but the Supreme Council, you know, didn't make that decision and the questions that were on that right wing are from this particular series. So if we say that we need to develop communities, we need to do so. If we're talking about changing the administrative system and not just administrative reform, we have to do it in a complex way. Our suggestions on all issues are there and you know it. But there is no final decision at the legislative level. When it is accepted, then we will implement it in accordance with the position approved by the President for the Ministry of Regional Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u67	No, I have another copy. Sergey Podgorny, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Now, after the question. One minute, Sergey Upper is it? No, so let's move on. Cory Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Javorovski Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u69	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I have a question, since there is no prime minister and there is no minister of finance, to Mr. Horoshkowski. A few days ago, the committee I lead conducted extensive hearings on the language bill on culture and spirituality. A representative of the Ministry of Finance, Brussels, Valentina, answered our question about how much it would cost to budget the adoption of this law. She called it 17 billion dollars. After that, the legendary deputy Kolesnichenko speaks publicly about the fact that they have already filed an application to relieve Valentina Brusilo of her work for telling the truth. And Koleschenko comments, "If it's expensive, let's shoot half the country, it'll be cheap." That's why I'm talking to Mr. Horoshkowski. He won't bring God if you release this man for the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u71	Yes, please, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u72	Thank you. The first thing I want to say is, I definitely don't want to comment on the disputes that arise on one or the other. What about man’s release? You know that a civil servant is released solely on grounds that are in law and not in any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a mistake. I would have had to announce to the government before the "hour of questions" began. I'll tell you who's gone and everyone else is here. None: The Prime Minister of Ukraine, he has an urgent protocol meeting; Tihypco, Vice Prime Minister, is a mission to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea; the Minister of Agriculture and Agriculture, Mikola Jury, is a vacation; the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, a mission; the Minister of Economic Development, a mission; Boyko, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, a mission; and Tobacco, a mission. Everyone else must be present. Please, Bodnar Olga. Dear colleagues, we've had less time to answer the letter, so we're making amends for the lips.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u74	Please pass the word to your colleague Dubil.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u75	Excuse me? Olga Bodnar's giving whom the right? Double, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u76	Valérie Dubyl, Ukrainian National Deputy of the Fatherland faction. Anatoly Mikhailovich, I want to ask you a question. All the troubles in housing and utilities are happening, cause one, no funds. But I think it's just the absence of a host. For example, in Chernigov, I was, like, about 70 instigating areas near houses and people are asking the same question. What's everywhere: roofs flow, 20, 30-40 years, no repairs have been done in the driveways, and there's no water in the basements. Local authorities, along with the mayor, are proposing to people to create an OSB. But I have a question to ask you, what is the cost of repairs in buildings that are offered to create OSBB? Whether homes will be forcibly handed over without proper repairs. People with pain and tears in their eyes asked the question. And the second question. Also in the city of Chernigov, there are many in the courtyards.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u77	Please, Anatoly Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u78	Thank you. In that state, really, there's a system of housing and utilities, and I've told you that. So, first of all, about OSBB. There is the Housing Privatization Act, and there is such an article. "The first capital repair, after privatization, or in the first capital repair after privatization must be attended by an old owner: either a state or a municipal property. Or any other. So now we're saying, given what I've already said, that we should give people homes, innuendo territory, do the garbage that needs to be done -- the roof, the basement, the networks change, and the state has to tell us what kind of participation it's going to take. These are the only approaches to taking into account the specifics of a building built yesterday or built for 5-0 years. And how many countries per square meter, let's say, take part in this capital repair. That's how the system should continue to be. And now in these realities we have to go there, see what payments there, who pays, who doesn't pay, who doesn't pay, how much they collect and where they spend. So OSBB can create, not just to throw as much on it, but to control it. You've been cleaned up — pay, take out the garbage — pay. And now they're paying and no one's controlling it. So the first question is to control the service. And all we have to pay for is what, well, this service is done.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u79	Anatoly Matvienko, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u80	Ukrainian Sobor Platform, Anatoly Matvienko. Valery Ivanovich, I have a question for you. Mr. Horoshkowski, I have a question for you. I want to say that there is a decision of the Constitutional Court regarding the order of payment of social benefits. I don't like it, but I respect it as a law-abiding citizen of the Constitutional Court's decision, it's a court decision. But the decisions of the courts that entered into force oblige the government to pay the corresponding benefits before the Constitutional Court’s decision is taken. I want you to answer, perhaps along with the Minister of Justice, the government will execute the decisions of the courts or will it not execute the decisions of these courts? They have the same meaning as the decision of the Constitutional Court. And question two. I've been writing for the third time. I'm going to the government in the Dolosses. "Dolosses," a well-known sanatorium of treatment, in Crimea, treatment of tuberculosis. I wrote to the government, 26 billion of them out. But the Ministry of Health says that no money has been allocated.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u81	As for the second question, I have to consider. I mean, of course, I can't say out loud whether it's money or not. As for the first question, I want to say that the answer here is purely formal. Of course, the decisions of the court that came into effect in Ukraine are enforceable. The other thing is that, of course, the government comes out of the possibilities of the budget that exist and from that order of coming. If we have used all the means of protection, including in terms of cassation, then, of course, we have to pay if this decision was before the Constitutional Court's decision was taken. So if there are costs in the balance sheet, if it's fully executed, then all of the protection procedures are in place and there are such decisions by the courts, of course the government has to implement them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u82	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u83	I have a question for Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! A lot of voters are now at our meetings, holding party conferences, talking about the imperfect work of the State Executive Service. Court decisions don't go very far, I'd say, a rich term. And the procedure needs to improve this legislation that regulates their work. So I would suggest that the Ministry of Justice, through Kabmin, as the subject of the legislative initiative, make appropriate changes to the Law on the State Service. So notice, many court decisions, and citizens complain that they remain unfulfilled. I don't mean where the benefits are, where the check is, where the other court decisions are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! Of course, the execution of decisions by courts in Ukraine is a problem that cannot be solved even theoretically, not only in practice. Because we even have laws that prohibit judicial decisions. We have a whole area that has a special order for the execution of court decisions, which is what Valeriy Ivanovich now answered when we have sums of court decisions that have to be paid, which go beyond the capacity of the state budget, which is very important. This is true of those segments where there is an opportunity to implement and there are suggestions for improving these mechanisms, and they are gratefully accepted. But I want to tell you that much more claims to perform in Ukraine is not for not executing a court decision, but for doing so. Because there are always two sides to the dispute, and the party that is supposed to be the perpetrator of the decision is always looking for ways to ensure non-compliance. And that also applies to a lot of directions. I think there's also a lot of discussion in this room, or there's a way to deal with a citizen's home who didn't pay off the debt. What if he owes and does not pay? And so there's a lot of different directions that give rise to controversial questions. And if the execution mechanism is to be improved, we need to understand clearly what it takes to make sure that the debtor, the one who does not actually pay his debts, is placed in a situation of compulsory settlement with the one he owes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u86	Honorable national MPs, according to the Rules, if the faction did not ask a written question, it has a guaranteed right to an oral question. Eugene Good, please. Who's the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u87	Thank you. I have a question for the First Vice Prime Minister. Dear Valeriy Ivanovich, there is an ecological disaster in Zitomirsk, where the production of almenites is planned in the six districts of the Gitomir region. This is threatened by dehydration, by contamination of the animal, plant world, and by a sharp deterioration in health. The State Development Program has no mention of the industrial development of the Zlobiticki and Torchini genealogy, but despite this, NAC "Nadra Ukraine" is forced by rural and village councils to decide whether to grant a special permit. Please tell me, what is this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, please give me a letter on this matter so I can take care of myself. And then I can give you a written answer to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, the hour of questions to the government is over. I thank the cabinet members for taking part in the "hour of questions to the government." [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Friday of the parliamentary request. Allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come from the Ukrainian National Deputies. Zinovia Shkutzak to the President of Ukraine regarding the guarantee of rights and freedoms that were violated during the eviction of Oleg Sadovnič’s family, who live in the village of the Vytautas Magnus region of the Donetsk region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:03:31]] For-35 Request not supported. Alexander Steshenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the commission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide legal protection for the use of resonant killings in 1995-1998 in the Donetsk region, including the national deputies of Ukraine, Eugene Scherbán and Eugene Kushnarov, the acquisition of their property by current officials of state authorities and local self-government. It seems that such a parliamentary request, if directed, may be to the Committee on Organized Crime. Eugena Dobrojak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine on the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice on Environmental Matters, the Code of Ukraine "For Nadra" by the National Shareholder Company "Nadra Ukraine" and its daughter enterprise "Zitomirburzka" on obtaining consent from the local councils of Volinsko, Korostenski, Chernikhivski, Radomislski, Malinsky and Korstishov region of the Žitomir region on the extract of the Ilmenite ore. [[Aarhus Convention]] Jaroslav Kendzior to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of a imprisoned journalist, the deputy of the Vasilkow City Council of Igor Mosiychuk. Boris Tarasjuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the neglect of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the implementation in 2011-2012 of the Integrated Housing Programme for Military Personnel, Military and Chief of Staff, Customs Officers and Members of Their Families. Dmitry Schlemck and Yuri Karmazin to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, Authorized President of Child Rights, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the conduct of the check in the order of the day. 97 Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the Legality of the Forced Collection of Cash in the Odessa Educational and Educational Complex No. 90 of Alexander Pushkin, the possibility of the administration of the specified municipal educational institution of crimes envisaged in the Constitution. 364, 367 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, dealing with the inadequacy of the director of the institution in question, gross violation of the rights of the child through unacceptable methods of ensuring school discipline, strengthening control of the coming, accounting and use of charitable contributions in educational institutions. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Agency for Film Affairs, Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of copyright and property rights of the Odessa Film Association working to increase the efficiency of the company, which will enable the production of its film product to begin. Anatolia Griesenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the unlawful actions of officials of the Donetsk City Council, the Donetsk District State Administration regarding the illegal forced destruction of private commercial pavilions and the improper response of law enforcement authorities to the actions noted. Valeria Baranov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inaction of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the issue of the repayment of arrears from the payment of salaries to former employees of the Berdjan State Factory “Glorvolokno”. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Kirovograd District Administration, Head of the Kirovograd District Council, on the conversion of residents of the township of the Pobuzkie Golovanov Region of Kirovograd and on the behalf of the local community of the issue of not allowing the removal of beds of hospital treatment in the Pobrzeki Village Hospital, which leads to a violation of the constitutional rights of the population of the Golovanów Region of Kirovgrad to proper medical care. Basil Black to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on financing the construction of a water tank for the provision of drinking water to the town of Kozyatin. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Prosecutor General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine on the use of immediate measures aimed at preserving the company Hayvoron Heat Repair and Non-Trafficking and preventing unjustified privatization of the business that is important to Kirovgradina, which is profitable, pays its employees in a timely manner, pays taxes and increases production volumes each year. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the overvalue of euro-2012-related objects and, according to journalistic investigations, the embezzlement of the state budget with signs of corruption. John Sidelnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-use of the principal administration of the land resources of the Kyiv City Public Administration of the privatisation of the land area in cadastre case No.A-1954. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the appropriateness of water tariffs in the village of Brilovka in the region of Herson. Mr. Dercert to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the construction of the radiological structure and the acquisition of technological equipment for the Dnipropetrov Hospital No.19 - City Cancer Center. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for a thorough audit of the use of budget funds by the Motorway Service in the Gitomir region as a whole, and in particular on the construction of a new bridge across the Irsha River in the village of Rizhana in the Volordarsko - Volinsky region of the Gitomir region. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of companies in the region of Sarnenski, Brezni and others to reduce the pressure on businesses by controlling and law enforcement authorities. Mr. Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the repayment of the debt owed to the Mostosagon No.12 workers for the work done on the construction of the Dnipropetrovska road in 2011. Mikoli Schmidt to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the rehabilitation of the lands of the Pervomayi district of Mikolai district, where mining facilities were located. Alexander Cronvolka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Chief of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Emergency Situations of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for Unsatisfying Work of Monopolly Local Service Organizations. Mikoli Schmidt to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the funding to complete the construction of the Assembly’s central district hospital and clinic in the Ternopil region. Oleg Zarubinsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conservation of small rivers and other watercourses in Ukraine. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of Administration of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the lack of financing for the construction of the subway in Troastina in spite of the programme "Implementation of the City of Kiev's functions to the capital, including the construction of a metropolis in Troastina. To the Trinity and the underfunding of the construction of the Teremka Metro. Sergija Vlasenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the denial of unreliable information distributed by Prime Minister Mikola Azarov of Ukraine, the German ARD channel on the involvement of Yulia Timoshenko in crimes as though committed. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the destabilization of activities and anti-constitutional expressions concerning Ukrainian as "unnecessary language", Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Dmitr Tobacco. Oleg Zarubinsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the resistance to the distribution of pseudomedical drugs and services in Ukraine. Alexander Trelyakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for receiving dividends from corporate rights owned by the State. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration for funding at the expense of the budget for the construction of the pipeline to the village of Biljak in the Semin region of Poltava, which has been going on for many years. Sergia Koshina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer of the local fire team to the village of the city type Stepan of the Sørn district to the balance and direct subordination of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine. Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of a water supply in the region of Barvaryvka, Mikolayev, Mikolayivsk. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the ratification of the European Convention for the Protection of Pets. Alexander Schepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the repair of the crash section of the road through the Seinevira Pass. Sergey Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to simplify the inheritance system in rural areas. Jurya Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of the funds to complete the construction and the acquisition of the necessary equipment for the food corps of the Kremenac district hospital of Ternopil district. Vladimir Karpuk and Mikoli Potapczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Volin District State Administration, the Lutsky City Head on objective investigation into the causes of the collapse of the building No. 109 on the street of Ravenska in Lutsk Volinsk, the use of urgent measures to carry out an expert study and to determine the purpose and safety of the further operation of the house. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on gross violations of the rights of citizens of Ukraine and other countries in the course of the registration of the International Social Organization CENTEX. [[Grenevetsky, Chaplin and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of construction and rehabilitation measures in Cherkasa on Gagarin Street No.45. [[The mosquito, the welder, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Zinovia Skutjak and Vladimir Karpuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds to mark the anniversary of an outstanding scientist, mathematics by Michael Krawczuk. Jaroslav Djodzik and John Hare to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the return of the Hotel Court building in the Contract Square, 4 in Kiev to the census of the Ukrainian RSR architecture under the protection of the State. Anatolia Yagoferov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the calculation of pensions for persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Vasila Wondernova to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of two specialized cars to the Kosovo Regional Centre for Social Rehabilitation of Children with Disabilities. Bogdan Hubski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the order of the conditions of pay and payment of allowances to employees of social protection institutions. Alexander Kemenyash to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need to preserve and ensure the further functioning of the stationary office of the Lonely Unemployed Citizens in the village of Kolocava, Mižgir district of Zakarpat district. Catherine Vaschuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, for an additional study of the correctness of pensioning for the inhabitants of the Voilà region of the Volin region of Dmitr Zvill and Mikiti Novosad. Valerija Baranov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need to standardize the salaries of employees of associations of multi-family houses. Victor Sinchenk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, on the fact that emissions into the air of pollutants by NARGUS in the residential area of the Academic Proscura and the Proscura Proscura Streets have increased mortality and cancer among children and adults. Julius Kovalevski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the provision of auxiliary means of transport for the elderly. Olega Lalashka, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to reorganize shelters for homeless animals and to establish a single service in Kiev with a municipal veterinary hospital. Sergey Kiwalova to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the warning of an ecological disaster caused by water pollution within the city of Odessa and the adjacent part of the waters of the Odessa Bay, by improving construction and water treatment technology. Jury Karmazin to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to abuse the office of the Prosecutor of the Lugansk Region, Anatoly Gorpinuk, as expressed in the concealment of illegal actions by the judge of the Lenin district court of Luhanské Olena Zaporozchenko, who is causing considerable damage to the State and to society, to bring the guilty to justice. Viacheslava Kirilenka to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, heads of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine on the requirement to find out the circumstances under which nearly a third of Ukrainian citizens were deprived of the opportunity to watch football matches broadcast through the national assembly of Ukraine as part of the final part of the European Football Championship, to establish and hold officials responsible for deciding not to broadcast Euro2012 matches for the participation of Ukraine’s first National Television. Gregory Omelchenka to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the use of urgent measures to return $280 million to Ukraine on Paul Lazarenko’s foreign accounts, which have been arrested by the U.S. court. Mikli Potapczuka to the head of the High Council of Justice on the situation that has arisen around the premises of the trade facility and the land area on the street of Slovakia, 5th in the city of Lutsk Volinsk. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Chernigiv District Administration, the Lower Regional Government Administration of Montenegro on the need for a comprehensive review of the request of the head of the Preschool Institute No.2 for children with small and quiet forms of tuberculosis of the City Council of Montenegro of Natalia Rudenko for the implementation of a capital repair of the premises of this educational institution and providing young children with adequate conditions for treatment and care. [[Prutnik, Bondik, and others]] Leonidas Grač to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to prohibit the sale of alcoholic beverages in Crimea agrotechnological university. Bogdan Hubski to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, to increase funding for the nutrition of children in preschool schools, as well as students from general education and vocational training institutions at the expense of budgetary resources. Anatoly of Matvienka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on illegal delays in the registration of the symbolism of the public organization "For the Rehabilitation of the First Level Two". Mikoli Shershun to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing and Housing of Ukraine on the request of the Sørne District State Administration of the Plain Region for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activities Regulation on Construction of Buildings to Housing Buildings without the drafting of land ownership documents. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on conditions and procedures for the control of the activities of the construction entities during the reconfiguration and replanation of housing facilities. Eugene Kzarow to the minister of Ukraine’s extraordinary situations, the minister of ecology and natural resources, the head of the Odessa District State Administration, the Renyan City Head for the protection of the rights of the community and the inhabitants of the city of Renni Odessa and for the non-acceptance of the environmental disaster, as well as for the protection of the environment. Caterina Vaschuk to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the need for a thorough professional study on the negative impact of the Bandur Oil and Extraction Plant in the Pervomaj region of Mikolaiiv, on human health and the environment, as well as on obtaining reliable information on this environmental problem. Alexander Shepeleva to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of measures to address the environmental problem in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Basil Gretzak to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship on Price Analysis and Profitability during the production and sale of Excise Assembly Marks as forms of a strict reporting document. Grinevetsky’s Party to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the Conservation and Protection of Cultural Heritage Monuments in Odessa Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Authorized President of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child, the Mikolai District State Administration, the Ivano-Frankov Regional Public Administration on the need for comprehensive assistance in the treatment of Maxim Minakov and Andrija Jurkević to ensure their inalienable natural and unbreakable right to health care and timely medical care by the authorized authorities of the State. [[Bondica, Prutnika, and others]] Sergey Tereshuka is head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the section of the road, which connects the settlements of Moshurov-Romanovka-Yvanka region. Sergio Vlasenka to the head of the State Pension Service of Ukraine on the illegal actions of employees of the Ukrainian State Penitentiary Service against the authority to meet with the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko, Head of the EU Representation in Ukraine, José Manuel Pinto Teisher. Julius Kovalevski to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy regulations on the use of measures to reduce the pay for the use of electricity in residential facilities for persons who have changed their apartments from central heating to electricity on various grounds. Alexander Steshenko to the head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the invocation of the responsibility of officials of the State Financial Inspectorate in the Luhansk Region in connection with the failure to meet the legal requirements of the National Deputy of Ukraine and the provision of copies of financial verification materials by the United State Financial Inspection of the Family Building in the village of Lower Duvanka, Swatski district of Lugansk. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the prohibition of advertising that violates Ukrainian legislation. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the heads of the State Architectural Inspection, the heads of the Lviv Regional Public Administration for the examination of the misconduct of officials of the public utility company "Drobician Market" and the city authorities in the complaint of 153 applicants aimed at closing part of the Drobic market, preventing the entrepreneurial activities of persons who are engaged in trade in the market, by attempting to illegally close their trading venues, the possible gross violation of construction standards in the street of Philip Orlik in the town of Drobychi in the territory of the legitimate underdevelopment of the USSR, which was deemed to be an emergency, which could endanger the construction of a shopping centre on the streets of Philip Orlik in the city of Drobychi, the area of illegal underdevelopment of the USSR, which could threaten the construction of the construction of the construction of the shopping centre of the market of the ill-representation and the prejudictation. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on many journalistic investigations that prove corruption and abuse of the authority of high-ranking officials in the construction of objects to Euro -2012. Stanislav Melnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the improper investigation and prosecution of the criminal case by the Obuhi district office of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Kyiv region, on the basis of the beating of Boris Vara. Catherine Samylik of the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the raiding of the company The Society with Limited Responsibility "Science" in the Herson region of the Holocaust. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for Public Administration in the field of municipal services for the consideration of further complaints by residents of House No.10 on the street of Niemanska in Kiev on the grounds of improper investigation of the illegal activity of Alexander Kanarczuk in the position of head of the Society with limited responsibility "Heologist Housing", the provision of improper municipal services, the conduct of non-objective checks on the maintenance of the house, the repeated, baseless disconnection of hot water supply and the conduct of additional checks on the inhabitants of the above-mentioned building. Anatolya Griesenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful decisions and actions of officials of the Maloville Rural Council of the Biotzerkow District of Kiev, which contain signs of fraud, abuse of office and possession of state property; gross violation of technical standards in the construction of the gas supply facility; inappropriate treatment of law enforcement authorities for the conduct of checks on the events indicated. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the application of measures regarding officials who falsified the protocol of the general meeting of the landowners of the village of Gritzk of Talalaiów in the region of Chernigiv, resulting in a lack of ownership of about two hectares of agricultural land. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the abuse of the post of Head of the Pensions Authority of Ukraine in the Sumskie Region, the failure of the Prosecutor's Office of the Sumsk Region and the Shastkin Interstate Prosecutor's Office to respond to violations of the constitutional rights of citizens, which led to illegal refusals to pay pensions to former employees of the Association of Workers of ALL. Natalia Královska to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the implementation of the procurator's decree to remove violations of housing requirements and to ensure the improvement of the living conditions of the multi-child family Tamara Jarmola, a mother heroine, resident of the village of Turvec in the Žitomir region. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration, on the efficiency of the use of budgetary funds and the deadline for the implementation of sewage treatment facilities in the village of Srebrenica. Gregory of Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the lifting of illegal orders for the closure of criminal proceedings for the granting and receiving of bribes by Paul Lazarus Lazarenko over $86 million, on the responsibility of former Prosecutors General of Ukraine, Svoslav Piskuna and Alexander Medvedzka, who, in abuse of their position, have unlawfully closed cases and took urgent measures to return to Ukraine $280 million in the foreign accounts of Paul Lazarenko, on whom the US court has arrested. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for initiating actions in the interest of the community of Ohtirka to the Ohtyr City Council on the obligation to balance the housing building at the address: Ohtirka, Yaroslavska Street, 4. Jurya Litvina to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for a search in the home of the deputy of the Novograd-Volin City Council of the Žitomir district of Atamanenko. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of criminal and procedural law by the Prosecutor's Office of the Krasnoggard district of Dnipropetrovska during the conduct of a criminal case against a citizen of Sergio Gurgy. Sergia Pavlenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of the head of the Cotelev District State Administration, Tetjana Korost, in the work of the Kotelev Regional Consumer Society of the Poltavian Region. Natalia Kraljevsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to restore the right to housing of residents of House No.120, located on the street of Semibotka in Chernigów. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-disclosure and destruction of the Spartacus sports complex in Lviv. Jaroslav Suhogo to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office in the removal, change of purpose and transfer to the property of the forest fund. Anatolia Matvienka and Vasil Czerny to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the illegal actions of local authorities in the use of land and water funds in the Heisinsky region of Winnitsky. Lilia Grigorovich, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, on the use of appropriate responses to public officials in the city of Kiev. Vasil Gritzak to the Director of the State Enterprise, the "Ukrainian Polygraph Combine" of Securities Production, about the relevance and financial justification of the numerous overseas missions of the Director of State Enterprise, "Ukrainian Polygraph Combine" of Securities Production, Maxim Stepanova. Alexander Kemenyash to the head of the Ukrainian Hydrometeorological Centre to provide information on the distribution of Low Temperatures in Ukraine during the heating season 2011-2012. And Yuri Miroshnickenka to the Chief of the Kiev City Bureau of Technical Inventory and Property Registration of the Object on the re-examination of the Chief of the Holy Trinity Chinese Male Monastery of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Archimandritus Prohor on the registration of the right to immovable property. Thus, honourable national MPs, the 161-member request, which today will be addressed for appropriate consideration, response, and action. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to a practical consideration of matters. What, what? Yes, I understand that there are a number of honourable colleagues who are dissatisfied with the answers to parliamentary requests, but we have 30 minutes to announce and perform in response to dissatisfaction. We have one, two, four, six, seven. That's 7 times 3, that's 21st. Ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing I can do, I'm still reading, I'm trying to do something.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u90	Let's move on to the agenda of the second reading. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on salaries for joining the networks of natural monopolies is under consideration. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 9011]] Reported to the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security by Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, for your consideration, a comparative table is proposed for the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Payments for Networking of Natural Monopolies. [[Registration number 9011]] The purpose of the bill is to regulate the rules for the integration of energy facilities and gas objects into the networks of natural monopolies, to define a clear order for such connections, and to ensure the protection of the rights of customers when connected to electrical and gas networks. In order to harmonize the counterversal rules, the bill was held at different levels in conjunction with the working group meetings. Dear colleagues, I just want to say that when this law is introduced, there will be no misunderstanding from day one for those who have a fixed capacity of up to 16 kilowatts. Oblenergo will be forced to include what is called standard association on the application principle. Since 2015, the power plant has increased to 50 kilowatts, and 2017 to 160 kilowatts. It's not just a household anymore, but business will have clear and clear rules. Our colleagues, the Ukrainian national deputies, also made proposals to the bill: Poljančič, Karmazin, Korž, Krutz, joint proposals came from Ribakov and Kaplienek, as well as from Głąszczenko Igor Mikolaiovich. Also in the comparative table to the bill are my proposals, which are worked out and presented by working groups from preparing the draft law for second reading. The reasons for the rejected amendments are given in the table below. I suggest you look at the table. I would also like to point out that as a result of the additional consultations with representatives of the construction sector, three amendments were needed: numbers 39, 76, and 79. So, after these amendments, I ask you to give a separate word to the committee member Igor Mikolaiovich, who will read the exact text of these amendments for the transcript. Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u92	Thank you. Let's go, dear fellows, as amended. Yeah, 1-a. Partially counted. Overruled, Polanchich, 5th. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Yes, editorially, Corge, 7th. Don't insist. Polanchich, 8th. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Yes, Polanchich, 12th. No, it's not. 11th, Carmazin. Don't you insist? Yes, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u93	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders I have such suggestions before this amendment. I propose that, after paragraph 39, the new paragraph 40 should be supplemented by the following: "A return on financial assistance is the amount of money transferred by the contracting authority to the use of electricity transmission facilities for a fixed term without the payment of interest or other types of compensation, such as fees for the use of such funds." These changes are due to the fact that this concept is repeatedly mentioned in the project, which is article 17 with the 2, 18, but it is not defined, indicating that there is a gap, a lack of legal regulation. Because of such reasoning that I received from the committee that this concept is defined in article 14 of the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u94	Yes, please, 11 amendments. [[11:39:13]] For-9 Not supported. Yes, please, next. Corge, 16th, partially. Polanchich, 17th. Don't insist. He's 19 years old. 22nd, Polanchich. 25th and 26th, Polyanchi. Do Not Urge 27th, Gushchenko. It's editorial. Don't insist. 28th, Polanchich. Carmazine, 32nd. Edited. Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u95	What did you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u96	32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u97	The 32nd amendment is edited, and I've agreed to this. And thank you to Mikoli, also, the mother of Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u98	Please, 33rd, Polanchich. Don't insist. Polanchich, 36th. Carmazine, 42nd. Overruled.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin. As a matter of fact, the committee was very thorough on many issues, so much of my amendments have been taken into account. I want to propose an amendment to article 18, and I want to propose not to exclude a part of the second, but to put it out in such a way, and I write, "Funding, serving objects designed for the common needs of electricity undertakings and other industries is done at the expense of the owners and users of these objects," is the end of the quote I propose. Why am I suggesting this? Because this part is excluded from the current edition due to what is proposed in the new part, the third that deals with financing the development of electricity networks in a different way than in the actual part of the second article of article 18. At the same time, the concept of "development of electricity networks" includes only new construction, reconstruction or technical refurbishment of electrical objects. So this concept does not include the use of electricity networks, so it falls out of the legal regulation of the financing of such activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u100	Please, now, I understand. 42nd, Carmazine, vote. [[11:41:56]] For -6 Not counted. At 39 Glushchenka's amendment, it's counted. What kind of problems? Can I have a hammock, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u101	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I ask you to support under the transcript my amendment number 39 in the detailed edition, namely: "The cost of joining the client's electrical facilities to provide electricity for the construction projects, which provide for the placement of affordable housing or social housing funds, is decreasing for the client in proportion to the size of such affordable housing or social housing fund to the overall area of the building site. Part of the cost of joining the customer's electrical installations, at which the cost of the service of connecting the customer's electrical installations is reduced, is financed by a tariff on electricity transmission, which is established for the electrical transmission organization by a national commission that makes public regulation in the field of energy." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 39 amendments are included, but the actor also asks the committee, as I understand it, agrees, the committee agrees to clarify it exactly as it reads. So I'm voting on the proposal: to accept Amendment 39, taking into account the proposals that have just been made. Please vote. [[11:43:41]] For 274 Thank you. An amendment was adopted by a colleague named Gluschenko. Yeah, part of it. Ribakov, 49th and Caplienne. Please, Caplienne, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u103	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, well, on behalf of the group, I'm going to insist that we put this amendment to the vote because, in our opinion, today, energy providers are, in fact, deciding on the issue of joining the network using just two licenses. And the mentioned addition that we're proposing will allow us to avoid any double-tracking of this direction of activity. I'll even read it, "Energy suppliers who carry out electricity transfer activities under the license should ensure that all the requirements for electrical transmissions provided for by this law are met. There's not much I'd like to say that the interpretation of this bill by the profile committee doesn't satisfy us because it doesn't correspond to reality. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u104	Yes, the vote is amended. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:45:07]] For-21 Not supported. Yes, Poljanczich, 53rd, does not insist. He's 56th. Kazmazin, 57th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, this amendment is essentially an identical amendment to 11 that I have tried to convince the Supreme Council to vote that it is necessary. As a result, I will not insist that she is practically exactly the same. It'll be a while. I'll make some changes here. Thank you. I don't want to waste your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u106	59th, Polish, don't insist. Ribakov and Caplienko, 63rd. Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, we also insist that this amendment be taken into account and put to the vote because there is a principle of the difference between design and construction, which is actually happening and new construction. Not enough, we insist that any activity in this area should be related to the licenses that this organization should have. And these are the two parts that we've introduced into this amendment. I don't know what the committee was, well, either I didn't get it or I didn't want to understand it. Please vote for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u108	Yeah, we're voting for amendment 63. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:47:00]] For-21 Yeah, 65th, Polnchitch doesn't insist. 70th, his. 74th. Don't insist. 76 revisions. Can I have a hammock, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u109	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please also support the amendment number 76 of the Ukrainian National MP Martinenko Mikoli Volodymyrovich, also in the precise edition concerning the gas field and mirroring my amendment number 39. This amendment is in agreement with the author. So amendment number 76, under the stenogram. The cost of connecting gas facilities, gas consumption of customers, which provides for the placement of affordable housing or a social housing fund, is reduced for the customer in proportion to the size of such affordable housing or social housing fund to the total area of the building site. Part of the cost of joining gas networks, which is reduced by the cost of services for the connection of gas supplies and gas supplies to gas networks, is financed by the tariffs on transport and the distribution of natural gas, which is set up for gas and gas undertakings in the national commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u110	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u111	..that makes state regulation in the field of energy. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u112	What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u113	Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u114	Support me. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the proposal to support 76 amendments in the same line read by my colleague Gluschenko. Please vote. [[11:49:10]] For 266 The correction is accepted in the editor as read by Glustnik. 79 Turnover, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u115	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen, please support my amendment 79 under the transcript. "The legal relations relating to the integration of the contracting entities into the electricity and gas networks, including the legal relations arising from the provision of such networks and the payment of the rations, are governed by legislation that has been in force before the law becomes effective if the technical conditions for connection to the electricity or gas networks are issued to the contracting party by 1 January 2013 and the construction of such objects is initiated by 1 July 2013." Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues! And then I'm putting 79 Gluschenko's amendment in that editorial where I just read Igor Mikolayovich. What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u117	Support, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u118	Support me. The committee doesn't object. There's 79 revisions to the line read now by my colleague Gluschchenko. Please vote. [[11:50:39]] For 271 The amendment was accepted in a new edition. Everything else is taken into account, and other colleagues do not insist on their amendments. Thus, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to accept in the second reading and generally as a law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the wages of joining the networks of natural monopolies. Registration number 9011. Please vote. [[11:51:28]] For 279 Thank you. The law is passed. The factions, please. Region Party – 189, BUT – 5, Our Ukraine – 8, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, Reforms for the Future – 19, non-fractional – 13. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on additional State security expenditure]] [[Registration number 10600]] There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. I'm asking you to back me up. [[11:52:19.]] For 231 Supported. Please, the bill's author is Yuri Karakai. Prepare Baran.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u119	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, in today's global world, when the economy is intertwined between nations, when information technologies erase borders between states, it is certain that the main threat to any country is coming from the outside. And the main function of protecting the interests of the state in this area is certainly the External Intelligence Service. Accordingly, on April 27, this year, the President issued a decree providing for the completion of the External Intelligence Service. To implement this decree, a bill was drafted that provides for additional funding of 47 million dollars. I would like to emphasize, exclusively, the fact that there was and existed in this service. These costs can be found in the budget on the basis of overpayments to the general budget of the State budget from import duty. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u120	Thank you. Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u121	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs has not yet considered this bill. But the bill proposes to increase the expenditure for this year of the State Budget General Fund for the External Intelligence Service under the "State Security Intelligence and Special Protection of State Representations abroad" programme to 47 million dollars. The source of such expenses is proposed to determine the increase, by the corresponding amount, from the import duty. According to the January-May report of the State, 3.9 billion, 262.5 billion, or 7.2 percent, of the whiter plan of this period, came in. The bill is resourceful and requires a mandatory conclusion from the Ministry of Finance, which has not yet arrived. There is also no conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The bill contains internal disagreements, namely, in Appendix 2 to the bill there are errors and summary indicators, in the line "Everything:", they don't match either. In addition, the bill needs to be revised to balance the general figures of the State budget, taking into account the laws adopted by the Supreme Council to amend the State budget for 2012 from 8 to 21 June. Therefore, if such a bill is adopted as proposed, it will balance the expenditure of the External Intelligence Service and the State Budget as a whole. If we adopt this law, we need to give an order to the budgetary committee and to the Chief Legal Authority to finalize this bill and remove the disagreements that I have explained to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u122	Thank you. Yeah, we'll talk about it? Sign up then. Please, Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u123	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland. Please pass the word to a colleague of Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u124	Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, on behalf of our faction, I want to say that we are concerned about a new practice that we consider a shameful practice. When on the second day the government's inefficiency in budgeting, by cunning means, Parliament is correcting. When the budget was adopted, you know that no one asked the MPs and no one asked the parliament, no need for local self-government. The officials, as much as they wanted, wrote to themselves, then voted in the Supreme Council, and unfortunately the majority supported it. That after the first reading we have no right at all to do anything, and now, with the hands of the deputies, the budget is flowing, confirming that many ministers have at all been unprepared for this fiscal year. Yesterday we voted, did you read what we voted for? It turns out we don't have a lot of teachers getting paid. Which was an external test. Where was the minister of education? Who is responsible for external testing? We've been informed that it's been over a hundred percent, and people don't even have money in the budget. But these things need to be recorded, not through MPs. Today’s Bill. Well, I'm not much of an external intelligence expert. But it turns out we don't have 652 people. I have a question: why didn't the committee even consider the issue? And I asked the experts, the experts say to me, "Yeah, this isn't the External Intelligence Service. Those 652 men want to make a territorial unit and it'll be the Internal Intelligence Service, and they'll be watching the opposition during the electoral campaign." That's why we are firm opponents of putting 50 million bills there, 100 million here, through MPs. We need the head of the Intelligence Service to be here to let the heads of government on the committee know why such calculations are made from the formation of budgets, where the money goes. How they'll be distributed. That is why we demand that without the Committee's consideration of this issue, without the representation of the heads of the External Intelligence Service, such a bill cannot be voted on and stopped by the deputies from introducing bills on behalf of the government. The government should come, report, report, and we should vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u126	Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u127	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, after we have considered this bill, we have really seen that there are enough flaws in it that can largely put the cross on it in a first-reading vote. But I'd like to say some other things. External intelligence services in Ukraine today seem to suffer. And those small, let's say, parts of funding, those little lunches that we find for our foreign representations, as well as those people who execute and protect our state, are too small. But there are some questions before this bill. Indeed, where the reasons are. If you divide the 47 million that go into this bill into 652 people, even if they work in an internal security system or an external one, you get 12,000 dollars. Well, there's no such wage inside this facility. It's about 3.5-4 thousand. Then it is not clear where the money is going. And that's a question to ask. Next question. Reference is made to the source of additional funding for violations, such as the Budget Code. That's what they were talking about today. But it's gonna be a big bribe. I'll remind you that in the moment, it seems that this source has already been taken on the social initiative of President Viktor Yanukovich of Ukraine, who, in principle, has attached this source to it. Thus, it is a strange situation when laws are passed that have such serious contradictions in terms of even political components. I'm not talking about justification, I'm not talking about middle of the year or anything. We are ready to put our shoulders on this issue in the first reading. But if we don't get to the other, we won't be supporting this bill in the future. According to the comments we made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u129	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I am radically opposed to this approach to amending the Law on Security, on the State Budget, so radically that I pass the word to the head of the Radical Party, Oleg Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u130	It's a shame you don't have any more arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u131	Thank you, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich! I think Adam Ivanovich is the most important argument that we are all here together, opposition deputies united in one, in order to protect the interests of the state and the interests of Ukrainian citizens. When 40 million dollars are offered from the state budget today to finance the External Intelligence Service, I do not deny in any way the importance of this state structure. Money may indeed need to be made available in order to increase the security of the state and the security of the defence. But a colleague of Tomenko tells us that internal intelligence agencies are actually being created under the roof of the External Intelligence Service. And what would be the function of these internal organs. Clearly, it is only by watching the opposition, by collecting compromises for opposition national MPs, to use them in the political struggle. And when we're told that we need to increase by 40 million dollars the expense of the External Intelligence Service, let's increase it by reducing the cost of police spending to protect the power of the people, let's increase it by reducing the costs of the prosecutor's office, who's running political orders and putting political prisoners in jail. Let us increase these expenses in the service of external intelligence at the expense of the courts that carry out political orders and rule on unjust decisions. And if we have such a reform of the budget that the authorities are bragging about, please pay the medical and teachers. I have dozens of phone calls coming to me from both the Chernigiv region and Cherkaskie region, from various areas of Ukraine, where people of two or three months don't pay their wages. I ask, where do you expect the budget to be overrun? Why you're targeting the penal authorities, the law enforcement agencies, instead of directing these funds to pay the budget, to raise pensions, to raise the social standards of the lives of Ukrainian citizens. The answer to that question is obvious, for today in Ukraine a penal state is built and we have to destroy it. Carthage must be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u132	Yes, 1 minute, Zuravsky, please, from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, radicals are in any state, including Europe. And the Fatherland's defenders are in any state, including Europe. And they always vote in favour of increasing the external intelligence budget, their external intelligence. And if we are truly patriots of Ukraine, we must support this institution of state, which is very important to Ukraine. So it's a small sum, and it's clearly indicated by the source of the filling, that's from the import point. We'll see who the real patriots of the state are and who the real people who love Ukraine are. A party of regions will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u134	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, here you can talk, everyone has a say in the matter, but I think we should agree. It's not that this internal intelligence is being created. The point is that now almost 30 percent of the External Intelligence Service is understaffed -- people who have to guarantee the security of our state. And, I think we'll do the right thing if we support the ability to recompile. I'm not ruling out that the part here that is present in the session room may be in November of the month that they will be asked to work, because with your experience you can benefit from this service. So let's think about the future of the state, including our own, and support Bill 10600. I'll put it to a vote. Please vote. Vote. [[12:05:31]] For 271 Thank you. The decision has been made. I want to say to the stenogram that I asked the head of the budget committee, which is actually to assign to the budget committee and to the Chief Legal Authority, in final editing, to take into account all that is required in the drafting of the relevant laws. Yes, dear colleagues, we will now announce a recess, but before that, I would ask that we include in the agenda of the session a draft Law on Employers' Organizations, Their Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Their Activities. [[Registration number 10108]] Please vote. It's gonna be a break. [[12:06:27]] For 234 Thank you. The law is included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, there is a break of up to 12 hours 36 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u135	Please come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. We are considering the draft Law on the Implementation of the Presidential Initiatives on the Cost of Mortgage Loans. [[Registration number 10557]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:36:27]] For 178. Offer supported. Reported by the Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Isenko Dmitry Valeriovich. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law that you are considering is designed to implement the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine on the cost of mortgage loans to provide affordable housing for citizens who need to improve housing conditions. The mechanism for such a tax is determined by the government to take the appropriate decision. However, a number of issues need to be settled at the level of law. This year, the government budget for partial interest compensation provides 1 billion dollars. However, such a mechanism creates a long - term commitment of the state and risks to citizens, which reduces the attractiveness of the program. Therefore, it is proposed at the legislative level to secure the State’s guarantees for the implementation of its obligations by paying interest on the protected articles of the State budget. In view of the importance of adopting this bill for the implementation of social initiatives, I ask that the committee prepare a draft for consideration in the second reading by a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u137	The word has the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The current lending system, which is foreseen in the draft Law on the Implementation of the Presidential Initiatives, under registration 10557, provides for payment by citizens of all payments of credit with further compensation for part of the percentage, a significant part of the percentage. People realize that long - term commitments by the State can be risky, and this is one of the main factors that has kept the program from unfolding today. Therefore, the first question that is proposed is to establish on the level of the State’s obligation to compensate part of the interest on receiving loans for the future. Article 55 of the Code of Budgets proposes to make this position as a protected article and to budget at least a billion dollars a year for the program. Such an initiative will allow for the inclusion of credit resources, according to experts, at the level of 10 billion dollars. Appropriately, this will allow you to build an additional 2 to 2 and a half million square feet [2 m] of housing. This is quite a contribution, given that today is actually going to be a third of the number of dwellings that are being built today. If 80,000 apartments are used, it will be at least 30,000 additional apartments. And that's just going to be the beginning. I believe we must certainly support such an initiative by the President of Ukraine. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u139	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u140	from the committee to propose that we vote in favour of an accelerated voting procedure so that we may adopt this law as a whole in the next plenary week. The only thing we're going to have to do is make more changes to the laws of others that have not been introduced in today's version. This was noted by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. So for a stenographer, I also say this so that we don't encounter regulatory standards. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u141	Thank you. Yes, please, I see, there are willing discussions. Please sign up. Yes, please, Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u142	Please give the floor to colleague Hanushtak Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u143	Please, Ganushkak, then Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u144	Hanusztak, "BUT is the Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen, well, we're pleased that Julia Volodymyrna's initiative, when she was Prime Minister, has finally begun to take place, even though it's a slightly distorted way. But I'm looking at this project right now and I'm seeing some problems in this project. First of all, there's a huge threat that the right to rent is going to walk in such a way that there's no end at all. So who actually owns the land, isn't going to be defined. This applies not only to the construction areas but also to the purchases of other areas. Then there is a breach of the logic of the Codex Budget. It can't be protected by an article called the program. The protected article goes only by the code of economic classification, it's pay, it's energy, it's a plan, it's not a program. Why? Because in the way that this is proposed, what comes out? That all other programs can not be executed if you look at the logic of the lecture, which is exactly what it is, that is, you have to delete it. This article should be protected by finally amending the Budget Code in the middle-term budgeting section, and then it is introduced into the medium-term plan, transferred from year to year, fixed, and in this case it is strictly protected. The way it is, of course, cannot be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u145	Yes, Stojko is handing over Arjevetina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, the idea is very good, the title of the law is also very good, but from the point of view of the mechanism, from the point of view of implementation of this idea under this bill, it is simply worthless. And I'm going to argue. Please tell me how the state can compensate interest rates or lose loans if it is not a party to a contract between a developer and a natural person at all. It was this law that we had to define these relations between the state and the physical person who was a prodigal. It's not done. The bill proposes to make contracts for the sale of property rights, not for the apartment itself. This is the path to abuse, this is the way that they're going to resell the same apartment several times, and property rights are going to hang somewhere. No one can comment on the novel today. It's "Recognition of Rent Rights." I don't know who I'm talking to, no one can comment. Because there's the Rent Act, which clearly states how rights are passed, rent rights and what the owner's consent is. Next, the lease agreement on land will now have to be secured, registered, by another contract. I think it's just making it harder. Now just speaking for the State's guarantees in part of the compensation, that is, the protected articles. It seems right, but you and I know that for every year the budget is formed separately, and long-term investment projects can't be protected because we don't know, there might be a year in which there's not even going to be that amount in the budget. There's another rule that we can't get past -- when the debtor changes to another debtor, that is, the transfer of debt, we can't do it without the creditor, well, we can't allow such gross violations. So the greatest danger is that by the time we read the second reading, unfortunately, we won't be able to make any changes in order to improve the mechanism, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u147	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u148	Because 116 will not give us that. Unfortunately, this law will remain a good legislative initiative. So I ask him not to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u149	Gordijenko Sergei, the Communist faction. Then, one minute, Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u150	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I pressed the "against" button not because against the President's social initiatives on mortgages, but against what's going on in action. What's going on? You know, there's a big program that's been operating in the countryside for years, it's supporting individual housing in the countryside. And the State has already made commitments, and in the State’s budget it has foreseen expenditure for these same purposes. So today I am asking very much on behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine and I am addressing the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, finally to finance this program because it's over. It's been in the heat of summer, and it's not funded, and today it's calling for a support fund, central, district. So give the money and help the villagers, and they support the President's social initiatives, and they'll actually believe that the initiatives didn't remain initiatives, but there are these funds, and they got to the developer. I'm calling on the government, please give me this money for the village and don't beat yourself up about the peasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u151	Yes, please, Žuravsky, one minute. Vitalia, stop, please. There's no way your microphone is turned on. I don't think that's where the card is. It's like a man with experience. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u152	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We've got a lot of chatter. When they meet with voters in different regions or here, knowing that there is a direct broadcast on radio and television, they tell stories about how to improve the lives of our citizens. And they're not offering anything concrete. This bill is exactly the specific social initiative of our President Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. This bill enhances the investment attractiveness of the building industry and allows for an additional 10 billion dollars in housing. What's wrong with that? A party of regions will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u153	Question completed. Dear colleagues, I think a lot of you, especially at this time, have the opportunity to meet and meet with the electorate. If there may be a problem in cities, it is also quite a matter of concern in rural areas. And let's not politicize. If we make a similar decision, I think we're going to vote for it, we're going to help our people have a roof over their heads. [[B in m in s a l in]] There will be, there will be, dear colleagues, there will be. Let's support it. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law on the implementation of the Presidential Social Initiative on the cost of mortgage loans. [[10557]] Please take a friendly vote. Yeah, based on that. [[12:50:13]] For 264 The factions, please. Region Party - 186, BUT - 0, "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 25, People's Party - 20, Reforms - 19, non-fractional - 15. It was suggested that this bill should be drafted in a simplified manner. I ask you to support this idea so that we can have it as a law in the next plenary week. Please vote. Short-term preparation procedure. [[12:50:56]] For 246 Dear colleagues, be careful. It's the commission of the committee to prepare for a reduced procedure, so that at that plenary week we're going to be spending in July, we can look at it. We're looking at a draft decree marking the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Zitomir region. [[Registration number 10614]] Vote? Dear colleagues. Two words, though, to Alexander Alexander Omelchenka. Please. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u154	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, colleagues. I asked for just one minute. The committee has reinforced the determination you have with several legal and stylistic signs. And they asked for the transcripts to say so. Paragraph 3 of the project's paragraph 2 adds a two-week term. Paragraph 3 recommended to the State Committee. Paragraph 4 of the anniversary coin project is replaced by a 75-year anniversary coin. Paragraph 5 controls this decision on the committee and the fifth end: the ruling takes effect from the date of publication. Thank you for your attention. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, you're not very good at acting, I'm sorry. You wanted to vote without even discussing the report. But it was necessary to really, Alexander Alexanderovich offered to provide clarifications that were already agreed upon by the General Legal Authority, because that would be better. Well, please, Zuravsky and Bondarenko. Will others not insist? Okay. Bondarenko, then Zuravsky, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u156	Vladimir Bondarenko. Dear friends, I would like to make one very important message to this decision. You know, Zitomirsk is the home of the Queen, Sergey Pavlovich the King was born there. We have 2 airports, which have, "Beautifuls" and "Borispils", which have no name in Lviv, which has "Danila Galicsky" there, "Prokofieva" there, "Shopena" airport, and we don't have those. Under this decree of a prominent citizen, Sergey Pavlovich Králova, one of the airports will make an offer to name it. And second position. And the King, by the way, studied at the KPI. And the second position is to remove Lenin’s monument in the center of Zitomir, which would be a wonderful decision to commemorate this Jubilee. There's no need for him there, but there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u157	You used to make other proposals. Zuravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u158	That's a lot of determination. I support Alexander Alexandrovich. But I'd like to make some adjustments. This decree states that I quote: "The State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine to provide wide media coverage of the events related to the celebration of the Jubilee of the Žitomir Region." That's right. Then paragraph 5 should be supplemented by the following: "Controlling the implementation of this decision does not just put Ukraine's Supreme Council Committee on State Building issues," which is correct, "and cultural and spiritual issues" is correct. Add: ". Also the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information." I still have my wish. The transcript will be read in Kabmin, there will be an organizational committee there, it's my little homeland, I'd like to join the organizational committee to prepare for the Jubilee of the Zitomir Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the more responsible they will be for the execution of the decree, the worse it will be for them to do. Trust your experience. Let's take it in the paper that the author and the committee are offering, and it says so. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal to adopt the Order on the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the Žitomir region as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote. Vote, roosters. Rabbit, vote. [[12:56:26]] For 293 It's been decided. We are considering the draft Law on the Organization of Employers, Their Unity, Their Rights and Their Guarantees. [[Registration number 10108]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:57:05]] For 231 Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Get Harry ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, Bill 10108, the authors are colleague Hara, Oleg Shevchuk. This law is, you know, in Ukraine the practice of applying it for more than 10 years since 23.05. In 2001 The practice can be called a success. According to his regulations, hundreds of local and sectoral organizations have been created, and dozens of employers, including 21 countries, have been registered. At the same time, the practice of application, the stated law, revealed a number of shortcomings that we should eliminate. Well, in particular, the term "employer", "employer organisation", "employer organization union" is not clearly defined and contradictory. Undetermined to date, there remains the procedure for the state registration and integration of employers’ organizations. In the present law, there are no criteria for the representativeness of employers’ organizations and their integration into social dialogue. Some of it is an outdated guarantee of the organization of employers and their union, and so forth. One reason why it is necessary to introduce to the Ukrainian Act on the Organisation of Employers these understandable devices is the inadequacy of its provisions of the International Labour Organization N 87 Convention on the Freedom of Associations ratified by Ukraine. The new edition changed the guarantee of employers ’ activities and their unification and clearly stated the duties of employers’ organizations. There is an extension of the rights of employers’ organizations and their integration through the possibility of integration into a joint representative body of employers’ organizations, their associations, and a number of other funds. Dear colleagues! This bill has been redrafted three times, worked on according to the proposals of the trade side and the government, the state party. He doesn't anticipate extra funds, he predicts making order in such an extremely important process for us and a new process as a social dialogue. So I propose to accept it as a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u161	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Works, Hara Vasil Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u162	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, at its meeting, considered and unanimously supported the bill. The case is that, in addition to the work of the authors themselves, a working group has been set up with the Committee, which has jointly led it to the normal state in which it is presented to you. The draft defines the legal framework for the establishment and activities of employers'organizations, the basic principles of interaction with public authorities, local government authorities and trade unions, citizens'associations. The purpose of the bill is to remedy the shortcomings of the existing law, and it has been adopted long enough. It clearly defines the rights and obligations of the employers'association. Specifies and details the right to organize and unite employers in accordance with the ILO Convention. Implementation of a specialized legal regime for the State registration of employers'bodies. It defines their participation in social dialogue at different levels. Establishes a qualitatively new framework for the participation and organization of employers in collective labour disputes, the collective bargaining process for collective bargaining, vocational training, retraining, development of skills, and establishes an improved mechanism for interaction with public authorities. The Committee proposes that it be adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u163	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Is that clear? Dear colleagues, I then make a proposal supported by the committee to adopt the Law on the Organization of Employers, Their Associations, Their Rights and Their Guarantees. [[Registration number 10108]] Please vote. [[13:01:34]] For 237 Thank you. The law is passed. And, dear fellows, let's hear a little bit about Blackmore, 9404, about the locals. Now, now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, well, there's a man sick, come on. Anyway, we're just gonna listen to him and send him to work and move on to the Vulnerable. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u164	I'm asking you to listen to me because I came here today with a fever for this law. Well, do the leniency.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u165	Alexander Nikolayevich, please. Two minutes and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u166	I'm cutting as much as I can. The right to a local initiative is the right of citizens and territorial communities to submit to the local council any matter relating to local self-government. This is one of the three whales in the Local Self-Government Act, along with the local referendum and the assembly of the territorial community, which gives citizens the right to participate in governance and continuity, while respecting the continuity of power at any time. This law is completely new. For the Council of Europe, too, the area is unexplored, I assure you, I have spoken to the Commissioner for Local Self-Government on this subject. In Germany alone, there are no laws of land, no federal laws in Germany. It defines the procedure for taking a local initiative on the local council, because to date this is referred to as the statutes of the territorial communities, and everywhere in the statutes, firstly, we have few; secondly, it is prescribed in a completely different way. I'd like to give you one procedure. I have proposals and conclusions not only from the Council of Europe but also from the Association of Cities of Ukraine, the Association of District and Regional Councils, the National Academy of Public Administration of the President. In view of all of this, I am pleased to take into account all these comments and to prepare a more qualitative draft for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, both the author and the committee, and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are the only ones who think that they need to be further worked out. Let us therefore vote on the proposal to return to the subject of the legislative initiative the draft Law on Local Initiatives under number 9404 for further work. Please vote. [[13:04:12]] For 266 Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the most interesting. I'd like you to sign up for "Virgin." Please, Konovaluk. Behind him is the Master. I can't see Konovaluk. Master, please. Master, I can't see. Where? Master Ulyana, will you be performing?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u168	I give you my word to Goodyak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u169	Good man, please. Prepare Eugene Wolinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u170	Good boy, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters! I was prompted by the constant persecution of the chief physician of the Corstossev Central District Hospital of Bondarczuk, Sergio Volodymyrovich, by the head of the Dorošenko Andrija Opanasovich District Council. Bondarczuk has been fulfilling his duties conscientiously since April 2005. As a result of the evaluation of the activities of the treatment and prevention facilities in the area of Žitomir, the hospital head over the last five years has been among the best in the area. This is also confirmed by a letter from the Department of Health of the District State Administration and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. But the chief physician was illegally released on January 21, 2011, by order of the council of Corstostis. On behalf of Bondarchuk, he was reinstated as chief physician by a decision of the Radomisl district court in Žitomir district on August 26, 2011. But influential individuals in the Corstos region’s public administration and the district hospital covered the unlawful acts of acting as chief physician, Shevchuk Svetlana Stepanovna, appointed at the time of Bondarczuk’s release. After her renewal in Bondarczuk, she did not return his seals and documents. This put the life and health of the sick at risk. On November 18, 2011, a request was made by Deputies Dobryak, Pashinsky, Petruk, who was sent to the Minister of Health, the head of the District Office of the State and the Attorney General of Ukraine. But he was not allowed to work. Protests by the Reilikarni workers about the illegal persecution of the chief physician by the Corstosov State Administration have not been taken into account. A number of C.E.A. checks, other control bodies, did not detect any violations, but they disorientate the hospital’s work. After his first release and renewal by the court, Sergio Bondarczuk was again released on May 14, 2012, and was again reinstated by the Corstostisov District Court. Medical personnel have come to the defense of their chief physician. The medical profession was even going to block the road in Korostoshev as a sign of protest against the repression of Bondarczuk. On June 14, a rally took place in the area of Korstošev district hospital. Hospital workers demanded that the chief physician’s persecution be stopped. This was to prove to people that they would go to a rally. I am addressing the head of the Zitomir district government. Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich Ribuk, please intervene and protect and protect a doctor, a fine organizer supported by the hospital team, and influence officials who have been destroying the rallying society for almost two years and endangering the lives and health of the sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u171	I'd like to invite Eugene Volintz, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by Danilenko Vladimir Andriyovich, Ukrainian Communist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u172	Dear Nikolai Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, 22 in 1941, German - Fascist invaders attacked the Soviet Union. Today we bow our heads to those heroes who in due course stood up for the protection of their family and lay down on the very first days of fighting. Their memory is bright! A clear memory of those who have not returned from the battlefield! The glory and long years of life to those who have endured this terrible war and who have failed to subdue the whole world and our country in particular. And now it's a matter of fact. In June-month, a military court in Tripoli sentenced 19 Ukrainian citizens to 10 years'imprisonment for allegedly supporting the regime of ex-Leader Libya, Muamaro Qaddafi. All of them, the people of the peaceful professions, in most of their pensioners, the leaders of Libya — this illegal regime — were accused of aiding the Qaddafi regime, that they were allegedly preparing to fight the Earth-Air missile, which was planned to be used against NATO aircraft. Our fellow citizens have been lurking in Libyan shadows for almost a year. Since then, the Ukrainian side has been able to send two humanitarian, bomb squadron aircraft to Libya as a gesture of goodwill and even to treat wounded Libyan fighters. But these actions brought freedom to only four Ukrainians, in exchange for the rest of the Libyan authorities, they also demanded a luxury jet of a dead dictator, estimated at $25 million. It seems to be more valuable and valuable than the lives of 19 of our countrymen. As long as national diplomats continue to be registered in their own insolvency, the illegitimate Libyan Government, which swears to respect democracy and tolerance, continues to demand a ransom for the freedom of our brothers, in a manner similar to that of the barbaric tribes of antiquity. The prisoners begin to lose hope of receiving help from their fellow countrymen and of gaining long-awaited freedom. Remember, many of them are older people, and they are confident that they will not live until the end of this prison term, because Libya's prisons are very, well, the state of Livia's prisons wants better and plus the conditions are also quite specific, Africa nevertheless. Obviously one thing is that today we do not see the results of the work of Ukrainian MBIs, our fellow citizens are left to chance, they are not needed by their country. Ukraine must take a more firm stand against the Libyan Government, which is violently holding our countrymen hostage and, if the situation requires, break up diplomatic relations with Libya. Money is the price of a government that cannot stand up for its citizens. Ukrainians deserve their lives and rights to be protected by the State, otherwise the power unable to defend them does not deserve the right to lead the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u173	I invite Vladimir Danilenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u174	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Vladimir Danilenko, Sumstina. We all know that at the end of last month, the Crucifixion introduced a new timetable for the movement of trains across Ukraine. Unfortunately, instead of optimizing traffic and improving passenger service, we see that there has been a train collapse in Ukraine. After the introduction of the new schedule to me as a national deputy of Ukraine, the villagers and cities of the district of Suma asked me to return the old schedule of trains. The most painful appeals came from the inhabitants of the city of Tristanec and the district of Tristan. The new timetable is threatening the city with a socio-economic downturn. Smorrodina Station, located in the city of Trostyanec, was served almost daily by nearly a thousand two hundred passengers, now after the reforms, the station is almost empty. It is also worth noting that this year is 135 years old since the establishment of this station. The reform of Crossroads, with the promise of high-planters to move service closer to European level, has shown that in our country, reforms are not an improvement, but a decline. The elimination of a number of trains linking the Trostian to other areas and to the capital will result in the city’s loss of its tourist and economic appeal. Today, 3-4 transplants are required to reach people from the Trieste to Kiev. And what's worse is that trains that have already left the railway have no commonplace and no place to play, just luxury and a bowl. Thus, the railway from the most accessible transport is converted into transportation for the rich. I would like to remind you that in the Soviet Union, every citizen could make two flights on a plane from Crimea to Moscow. We all understand that the railway is one of the last state-owned enterprises that the oligarchs have yet to privatise. Right now, through the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, they are working to bring this company down to decline for further purchase at low cost. In view of what is said and taking into account what is coming from Ukrazlaznica, my presentation today is asked to consider as a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, requiring the restoration of proper train security at Smorrodinje station in the city of Tristanec.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u175	I invite Artem Pshonka, a faction of the Party of the Regions, to be followed by Julia Kovalevska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u176	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens! In my speech, I find myself standing on a problem that has repeatedly been heard, including from this rostrum, namely, the situation in the dairy sector. Despite numerous expert discussions, the signing of Minagropolitics’ memoranda with processing enterprises remains a tense situation in the dairy sector. At the top of the world’s markets, the population continues to be extremely low. During the last months, the average amount of milk purchased in peasants was 90 copies per liter. In some areas, for example, in Zaporozhye, this figure was even lower, about 1 bracelet of 70 copies per liter. Clearly, this situation poses a major threat to the socio-economic plan. First of all, it's an increase in social tension among the population. Second, it's a reduction in the head because of the damage to livestock. Moreover, about 80 percent of all milk processing is household, and the price of all dairy products depends on the stability of such supplies. I am deeply grateful to Prime Minister Mikola Janovich Azarov of Ukraine, who overlooked the problems and raised them repeatedly during government meetings. A very important and timely step was to put subsidies on the head of the cattle. This action will help to preserve the head and stimulate its growth in this month. However, the issue of milk production’s profitability remains very acute. Because it is this issue that is the main means of survival for the vast number of families in our country. Appropriately, the problems of the State support mechanism continue to require our careful attention. I would like to remind you that under the Tax Code, 70 percent of VAT is accumulated by processing enterprises in special accounts and should be used solely to compensate the dairy producer. However, a large number of farmers do not receive real support, both because of the operations of the factories themselves and because of the intermediaries. The first quite often uses funds for their own production needs. Mediators, on the other hand, refuse to document their calculations and set prices for themselves, deprive citizens of adequate compensation. Please, and I think we're going to do that, to strengthen the control of the State Financial Inspectorate over the purposeful use of the sums to be paid for compensation. Strengthen the control of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee to ensure that milk prices are economically justified, particularly by intermediaries. In developing the form of a contract between the chefs and the producers, it should be accompanied by a mandatory directive on enterprises that will process the milk that is accepted, even in the case of milk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u177	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u178	The villagers knew exactly who to go to for compensation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u179	I invite Julia Kovalevsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. And I would like to point out that Mr. Danilenko Volodymyr Andriyovich's speech, I would like to ask the appropriate questions for his statement at the Ministry of Infrastructure's Office. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u180	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Telegraphs! Today, I wish to draw your attention to the problem that is one of the most disturbing concerns of citizens. It is the problem of unemployment. During my meetings with voters at personal receptions, people often raise the issue of employment, especially those not required in the labour market, mainly young people, who seek their first place of employment. And that is indeed a problem, for every employer wants to see a youth specialist, but it is already with experience that simply does not come from anywhere. It turns out that the most vulnerable groups in the field of labour relations for today are young people and workers over 50 years of age. The lack of skills and experience in the first group and the lack of knowledge, the failure to meet the requirements of modern working conditions in the second case make these people uncompetitive in the labour market. However, the recovery of the economy and the introduction of a new public employment policy make it possible to say that the problem has begun to be resolved. I am sure that the task of the State in the field of employment is not to feed all the sufferers, but to give them a handiwork and to teach them how to milk fish. The new public employment policy is aimed at achieving this objective. On 8 June, on first reading, you and I adopted the Employment of the Population Bill, which provides for a completely new, progressive approach to the problem of employment and provides mutual legal guarantees for employers and workers. And I hope that, as soon as possible, all factions, all the people's deputies will show their concern for the people of Ukraine in fact, and we will adopt this bill. It contains rules that encourage employers to create new jobs for these uncompetitive groups of workers. For example, the bill provides that employers receive 100 per cent of the remuneration of a single social contribution to employment for newly created jobs for such categories of workers as young people for whom this will be the first job, persons over 50 years of age, persons with disabilities, single parents, parents who raise children with disabilities. That is, the most socially unprotected segments of the population in need of State assistance and thus the State is prepared to provide that assistance. At the same time, these rules do not in any way pressure the employer to hire unfavourable workers, but offer him a kind of deal, encouraging the employment of those in need of work. Incentive laws make it attractive for the employer to hire young people, and young professionals are offered the necessary skills and first-time job experience. The Act also aims at modernizing the retraining system, providing a voucher for people over 45 years of age for a new profession. The training of the unemployed is also provided for as a specific place of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u181	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u182	and the training of their integrated working professions. Finally, the fight against unemployment, the employment of the population, is one of the main obligations of the Party of the Regions to the electorate. And I am confident that the cohesive work of the authorities to introduce a new employment model will bring this problem much closer to being addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u183	I would like to invite Yuri Gnatkević, the faction "BUT" – "The Fatherland", followed by John Popescu, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, every deputy who goes out to this rostrum is a little worried, and in this call, I'm going out to the rostrum 78th time, but I'm worried. I'm worried because I came out to try and save a man. What's the matter? Two years ago, my assistant consultant, Nicholas Larionov, who lived in Suma, was put away for 10 years for allegedly murdering another 15 years, the murder of a drug dealer in Simferopol. Of course, I was faced with a dilemma, either to accept it or to study the matter itself, for I do not believe that Nicholas could do so. And he told me I didn't kill him, Yuri Vasilovich. And he's sitting there, not killing anyone. My team, my assistants, my lawyers, my lawyers studied the case for two years and came to the conclusion: Santa is sitting innocent. And I started fighting. Until I fought, everything was calm, everything was fine. But when we get to the killer's tracks, we know his last name, we know who ordered it, interesting things started: threats to his wife started, calls in the middle of the night, calls in the middle of the day, says they're gonna put him on a "peak" looking for him, and wherever he's going, and wherever he's going, the "brother" will destroy him. More interestingly, the Kerchin Colony’s operational officers themselves know about this and warn Santa that they are hiding as soon as you can because they're playing the rabbit's test and they're going to kill you. And here's a paragraph that I want to read: "Who put this whole thing together should look for who." It turns out that in the course of the pretrial investigation, Mikola was required to pay $30,000 in bribes. My wife came to see me and said, "Juriy Vasilovich, 15,000 euros is not enough, I'll give the prosecutors say he'll be free." One of those prosecutors even took bribes, but there was little or nothing wrong with them, and Santa is sitting there. And the deputy prosecutor of Crimea says, "The prosecution has accused him and he will sit." I am addressing Mr. Lisickov, Head of Penitentiary Services. I'm talking to the head of the Kerchin colony, he's a Tatar for Crimean nationality. I'm already talking to Cemilov, as if he knew him. We have to do everything we can to keep Mikola Ilarionov out of the hospital right now, or they're gonna kill her. I'm talking to Mr. Lisickov, I know your humanity, I know you helped me once. Help me this time, don't let me kill you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u185	I invite John Popescu, the faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Jaroslav Kenzior, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u186	Thank you. Popescu, faction Party of the region. Dear colleagues, today I would like to draw your attention to a very relevant issue. The Euro-2012 European Football Championship is already on the finish line and it is already clear that the main outcome of the Euro-2012 football event is that, despite the devastation that the previous power has left behind, this is a catastrophic backlog in the delivery schedule and the complete neglect of infrastructure development, the new Government of Ukraine has done well with this challenge. And today we see beautiful stadiums, new airports, roads and bridges. In addition, despite calls from some Western politicians to boycott the Euro-2012 events in Ukraine, which were inspired by the opposition's pseudo-patriots, these attempts suffered total fiasco. Overcrowded stadiums and positive feedback from foreign patients prove that Ukrainians, though emotional, are very hospitable and tolerant. And our guests themselves have found that those provocations, the negatives that spread the media in their homeland before the championship began, have nothing to do with reality. And if a month ago, thanks to the opposition emissaries, their foreign counterparts, the image of Ukraine was painted in a dark tone, and since the beginning of the Euro-2012, thanks to the tens of thousands of Europeans who visited our country voluntarily became our honourable ambassadors in their countries, the situation is changing. And now they have the good news that Ukraine is a beautiful European country and there is no dictatorship here. And there is order, stability, dynamic development, and power is finally thinking about its people, raising social standards, and that makes it absolutely honest. And our new sincere friends, thanks to their personal experience, will bring to their compatriots the truth about the real situation in Ukraine. And after that, the frank wound and pre-election messiahs of the opposition will no longer find the support they expected. This will not be the case during the Parliamentary Assembly, which will be held next week in Strasbourg. They will gradually lose their support not only in Europe but also in Ukraine. On 28 October 2012, they will be punished politically and punished by the Ukrainian people for their destructive activities of discrediting Ukraine abroad. As a result of fair and transparent elections, they will suffer a devastating defeat, also as punished by their political orange partners by the civilized European peoples in the local elections in Germany and Romania, in the French parliamentary elections, in many other countries of our continent. And there is no stopping this trend by false messiahs. Thank you for your attention. [[B in m in s a l in]] And they were speaking in Russian to hear our partners who knew that language. And your screams that are coming now prove that you don't respect yourself or me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u187	I'd like to invite Jaroslav Kendzior. Colleagues Stojko and Mokchan handed him the right to speak. Rules - 6 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine! Well, I can't help but say that, to the honor of John Popescu, it would be a matter of stepping out of the Supreme Council in the language of my Romanian countrymen. Then they would understand, as it were, that something similar could be expected of this so - called law. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I'm going to raise a topic that I haven't actually heard here today in the Supreme Council. That's the beginning of his speech. I want to say that Ukraine’s noble Security Service has warned of a terrible disaster. She warned of a terrorist act in the Supreme Council. A national deputy from the provinces of Vadim Koleschenko, this famous Kremlin agent in the Ukrainian Parliament, made a statement to the Attorney General’s Office that his precious life was in danger. And that Jaroslav Kenzior is preparing for both him and the Supreme Council a terrorist act. The Attorney General’s Office has assigned the Security Service, as it were, to deal with this dangerous situation. And the reason for that was my comment to one of the websites after that memorable adoption in the first reading and the Language Act, where I said that such action by the Party of Regions, a party of authorities could lead to what I fear is that I could be willing to bring a packet of trotillas to the Supreme Council and blow it up. This is the threat of a terrorist act, and the Security Service, along with the Attorney General's Office, has recorded. Yesterday I met with a Ukrainian security officer. I learned for the first time that there is such an interesting department in our Security Service, the Department of Defence of the National State of Ukraine. So the department and the service in general should take care of the national state and avoid any threat. And of course, I explained to this employee what the motives were for causing me to make that statement. I said, in my opinion, the bill, the bill on language in the execution of the Koleschenka is not even a pack of trotyles, it's a nuclear bomb under the Ukrainian state, because this law undermines this no longer worthless, give me a session hall where anti-Ukraine flourishes, but the whole Ukrainian state. And then, knowing that the doctrine of security and defence of the Russian Federation, our neighbours, we know that the Russian state ends where the Russian language ends, that the Russian State will protect its Russian-speaking compatriots, means, outside Russia, wherever they may be. And the thing is, if this law is passed, that means the Russian-speaking population is increasing, then the Russian passports are being issued, then Koleschenko and the Russian-speaking people are looking at the Russian leadership, and we're going to have Russian-speaking citizens down here, and we're going to have Moscow, Russian paratroopers, and Russian tanks instead of the Hristian fan zone, the Ukrainian gentlemen, we're going to have Moscow, Russian paratroopers and Russian tanks. This is where the national security threat, the national security of Ukraine, is threatened. And that's why I didn't really want to write in this protocol, so to speak, Mr. Operational Officer, but I do. That's why I'm asking the Security Service to capture a true terrorist who's infringing on the statehood of Ukraine, and immediately, as it were, isolate him so that he doesn't destroy the Ukrainian state. What will be the reaction of both the Henprocurators and the Security Service, of course, can be guessed. But if that were the case, that would be the end of it. I can quite rightly argue that this, with the permission of the Ukrainian Parliamentary, this agent of another state is making an economic diversification, because his law is estimated to be 17, according to other experts, to be 50 or 60 billion dollars. We realize that the state does not have such funds. So this is a specific terrorist activity, all of these activities of the Koleschenka, and falls under the corresponding article of the Criminal Code. So, Mr. Esbists are Ukrainian or, more specifically, the Kagebists, the Attorney General’s Office, the agencies, the terrorists are sitting here in the session room, please come and we'll help you connect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u189	I'd like to invite Andrew Pavlovsky, the "Fatherland" faction. He will be followed by Dmitry Schlemko, "BUT is the Fatherland." Please, my friends, hurry up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u190	Andrey Pavlovski, faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. My fellow countrymen, as a national deputy, were approached by veterans of Chernobyl social organizations. They were aware that the Cabinet of Ministers, led by Azarov, was preparing another pack and subtle in relation to participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl accident. In particular, the government wants to review in a quarter of a century what is the liquidator, figure out what is the right thing to do and what is the wrong liquidators. I'm not talking about citizens who were evacuated in 1986 from the alien zone and who experienced the bitter taste of the so-called peaceful atom and who are still living in the polluted territories. Regrettably, among the black people, the authorities find strikebreakers. And that is to say, those who are nearer to power will be healed, and others will be doomed to a pitiful existence. The Chernobylites are addressing us, the people's deputies, and they say that Yulia Timoshenko was difficult, difficult, but there was no such thing as now. Despite the severe crisis, she tried to provide them with full social assistance. The decisions of the judges on social payments at Yulia Tymoshenko were carried out, not what now prohibits Azarov from carrying them out with his sad 63 orders. And all black people, Afghans, children of war know that now the court's decision on social pay is effectively suspended. That is why Janukovich’s sadists, Yulia Timoshenko, are now holding her, an innocent person, in prison, without giving her proper medical treatment. We demand that on April 26, we review the cassation and release Julia Timoshenko. The whole world joins this, all the civilized countries, the leaders of the European states are calling for this. Only Yanukovich can't hear or see it. And I'm actually surprised that such a creamy uncle, our president, is afraid of such a small, delicate woman. Well, you know, it's kind of a Freudian complex. And it's like he's baptizing his forehead, and where's his humanity? He knows that.. then he would have signed a pardon order long ago and would have closed the problem. So no, they're making accusations one more absurd to the other. But what I'm saying is that all the bastards who abuse Ukraine, the leaders of the opposition, the citizens of Ukraine, will respond sooner or later. Ukraine's fame.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u191	I'd like to introduce you to Dmitri Schlemck, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u192	Dear National Deputies! On May 18, this year, the Head of the Supreme Council was requested by me to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the ineffective use by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of significant budgetary resources allocated to the disposal of particularly hazardous wastes in the city of Kallus Ivano-Frankiv region. To the knowledge of compatriots and national MPs: underneath Kallus is a large range with dangerous wastes of hexachlorobenzene – a poison that is dangerous to humans, it accumulates the liver, the central nervous system and the cardiovascular system. A half-gram of hexachlorobenzene is a lethal dose for humans. Such hazardous wastes are estimated by experts at more than 11,000 tons. The mold has been declared an ecological emergency zone. The government has allocated 1 billion dollars to work with their disposal. That's what I'm going to say from the residents of the Atonement: Thank you to the party! If this process had not become a complete affair under the roof of the Ministry of Environment of Ukraine. First of all, there was a tender with one participant, who was won by an unknown Israeli firm T.O.T. Group Consortium, whose manager was trading only in Israeli underwear. Secondly, the plant where waste will be disposed of is the city of Gdansk of the Republic of Poland. And here comes the wonders: from Calus to the Polish border, hand in hand, toxic wastes were filled with hermetically bags, self-removals were delivered to the nearest station, loaded on the railway platform, transported not to the northwest across the Polish border to Gdańsk, where the waste was awaited by a plant that specializes in the burning of hexachlorobenzene and was directed in the opposite direction – to the city of Mikolayev and then – I ask you all to listen carefully – across the Black Sea in the Strait of Bosporus, Marble, Aegean, Mediterranean, Gibraltar, the Atlantic Ocean, the Celtic Sea, La Mansh, the North Sea, the Strait between Norway, Sweden and Denmark and finally reached the Baltic Sea, where the Atlantic Ocean is located. The entire epoch has already spent 700 million dollars on government spending. Now Minecology has stated that it was wrong in calculations -- and after 11,000 tons were exported, 18,000 tons of hexachlorobenzene waste remained, which requires an additional 600 million dollars. The legal question arises: What have hundreds of millions been exported in bags to date? Instead of starting a case, the Attorney General, seeing the corruption of the officials of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, gives the answer that he is directing my request for consideration to take action by the same ministry. I guess I never thought about the biker Glibov when he thought that the worst part was throwing a dog into the river. It's worse today, because the thief is breaking. There's no reason to play Timoshenko, Lucenka, Grishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u193	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u194	Hundreds of prosecutors have been working and are still working, and hundreds of millions of dollars that will be turned into billions tomorrow are being washed off the field by the Ukrainian National Deputy. Therefore, I ask that my statement be considered a repeat request to the Attorney General of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u195	Please form an appropriate request for Dmitry Vasilovich Schlemk to the Attorney General. I'd like to invite Vladimir Bondarenko, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u196	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." First of all, I apologize to the Communists who came to see me. I didn’t make the suggestion to remove Lenin’s monument in Zitomir because there wasn’t enough time. And I propose instead of a monument to Lenin, that there be a memorial for his grandfather Blanca, who was born there, so that there may be some parity so that they may not be offended. So that's why I made that clarification. But I wanted to get out of the problem of electricity. In Ukraine there are five types of generators that produce, by different estimates, about two, three times the self-sustainable difference in electricity is atomic, it's hydro, it's gas, it's coal, it's oil. The fifth branch that today’s secretary of the NPB has set up at state expense for his own company has been produced by solar - powered batteries in Crimea. You remember, when the state shut down commercial loans, all of this came out of hand, but strange works continued. It was written down, as you recall, twenty billion dollars from energy distribution companies of the skynergo. For some reason, such poor skyscrapers that people paid for everything, and they're twenty billion now, were given to them by our Supreme Council and this majority. Other matters continue, especially recently, several days ago, NCRE, the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, quietly decided to increase the price of electricity by one kilowatt hour to one bracelet if more than 800 kilowatts per month are consumed. I want to tell you that this is going to affect every gardener in Ukraine, because the gardeners are on the same counter, on one transformer. These are millions of people who are going to pay not 34 cents now, as before, but one bracelet. This is going to affect everyone. Thus, this authority provides its program for improving life today and not just today. This is Janukovich’s social program when they rob those who are hanging on that counter today. The attempt to set up a separate counter, which some have made, especially in the Kyiv region, ended with an offer to each individual who wants to have a single counter, to pay an additional 8,000 dollars. So we have a monopolistic structure. And NCRE, which supports this monopoly structure, because the task of NCRE is to balance the monopolistic relationship with consumers. It's all about doing it. To rob people. That's why I think you're going to go to total default, because the abuse of the poor in Ukraine, which this government has taken, needs adequate action. I think that those power companies that are producing electricity today, giving it to Ahmetov, who's selling it abroad, have reduced the cost of purchasing electricity in the state by 30 percent, and people have tripled. This is the power, this is its honor and glory.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u197	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u198	And then whoever wants to support this power, let the fall vote. Here we were convinced by one previous speaker that they would be carried out. They'll take it to the dumpster, not the parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u199	I invite Yuri Karmazin, the faction "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense", followed by Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u200	Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I want to speak with a completely unusual subject for the legislator. This topic relates to the humiliation that the entire Ukrainian people felt, all who watched the football festival, at the festival that was to be held at the Euro-2012 Championship in Ukraine, which was to become a festival, but unfortunately for the Ukrainians, it turned into a demonstration of double standards. Unfortunately, there is no response to these double standards. On June 20th of this rostrum, I called on UEFA to immediately gather the extraordinary council of my leadership, to consider the unfair judiciary and to ask questions about the cancellation of the match, the results of the Ukraine-England match. But that didn't happen. Now I'm going to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to recognize as non-grates the people involved, starting with Michel Platini. Nothing he can do at the final match. And now I want to tell you that 40 years ago, an outstanding Russian writer, Arkady Romanovich Galinsky, wrote: "O naive and therefore happy footballer! Now I'm going to break your luck. Know that it's all fog, diplomacy, kitchen, like the questionable honesty of joining the president of FIFA, and that in the kitchen this one is comforted by your love of football and your naivety. And they're laughing at football players, and they're laughing, too. The position of leadership in this essentially uncontrollable, in nothing and in no one who does not report and is not democratic at all is a very pleasant moment.” So I've asked a question and I'm now putting Pshonka, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on a criminal case involving the Arbitrators' brigade led by Hungarian Viktor Kashashi, who deliberately, acting in the interests of the football team of collective England, did not count the kill of the Ukrainian collective goal during the Euro-2012 match, which led to the loss of Ukraine's collective and caused significant harm to the Ukrainian people, to society, to the state, to the authority of international football organizations. I also demand that the criminal case concerning President Michel Platin of UEFA for deliberately failing to take action on the corruption actions of the Arbitral Brigade led by Victor Cashhai, which deliberately did so. I see corruption in their actions, and I demand that this address be considered as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine. We're Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u201	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u202	We Ukrainians deserve justice, and people who bear injustice have no right to be present in Ukraine, they have to be recognized by non-grates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u203	I'd like to invite Vladimir Yavorowski, the "Fatherland" faction. He will be followed by Alexander Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u204	I still have time for Vladimir Oliynik. Dear voters, I am addressing you! I continue to read chapters from a genius book that I would call "Saga to Raise the Hands of Mikhail Chechchev." This is the protocol for this event. This is August 25, 2005, when the Orange Rebellion, the country, ended, so to speak. Everyone's expecting an update. And Chechetov comes with duty, runs himself to the prosecutor's office. I'm reading. "I can explain by explaining that this action was carried out in conditions of justified risk to achieve a significant social benefit, namely, that if Medvedchuk refused to privatize the said buildings, the last one would remove me from office and privatize them in another way." I think you can put it in the book on demagogy, cross-cutting absolutely. "That's why I've calculated that when Medvedchuk stops influencing personnel and other processes in the state, the state administration will legally terminate the contract for the sale of the houses in the Vodice Desert and return the property to its administration. In this regard, I deliberately signed this contract for the sale of the houses of the house of the house of rest of the Vodica Desert from someone who specifically indicated that the houses of the house are sold, not the holiday houses, as the representatives of the ZAT Football Club wanted. Given that I was not the right person to do this at the time of signing this contract for the sale of buildings, so this contract is to be terminated." Chechchev's hand is written: the appearance should be printed in my own words. It's his signature. I'm going to read some more of the selected places for questioning, because this started him, as it were, questioning him when he came in with duty. Look, listen to him betray his leader and his godship today. The next person asks. Question: "What is the reason why the deadline for the application for privatization of Pavlogradugol HCC is reduced?" Chechetov responds. Answer. “The reduction in training time for participation in the competition was due to the fact that a team of former Prime Minister Yanukovic had received that funds were urgently needed to implement social programmes in the budget. In order to resolve this instruction, I have been given a command to change the terms of the competition for privatisation, namely, to reduce the period from 60 to 30 days for the submission of documents to the competition. Consequently, not all potential buyers were able to participate in the Pavlogradugol privatization competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u205	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u206	Six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u207	Three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u208	“From my conversation with Prime Minister Janukovic of Ukraine, I realized that the Danish structure under the control of Rinata Ahmetov must win the competition. [[Releasing Janukovich]] Accordingly, the relevant terms of the Pavlogradugol privatization competition were developed, followed by the necessary organization of the Alchev Coxochemical Union. Because my time is right, I'm going to say 105 million in this operation alone has lost the Ukrainian budget. But it's not over, I think I'll read on, because there's what to read, where he gives Kuchma and Yanukovich, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u209	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, for the interesting information. I'd like to invite Alexander Dubov, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland", to be followed by Victor Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you in connection with the situation that has arisen since the adoption of the Law on the Ports of Ukraine. In Ukraine every person’s right to work and property is guaranteed. The State must ensure that the entire range of Ukrainian citizens’ rights guaranteed by the Basic Law is respected. In practice, after the adoption of the Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act, there was a paradoxical situation where the management of the seaports was completely changing, the privatization of seaports and their property was allowed, which threatened the liberation of thousands of workers in the field, particularly my countrymen from Ishmael, Rani, Kielija, Odessa and so on. In addition, the law poses a direct threat to Ukraine’s national and strategic security. It will be another step toward destroying the State’s infrastructure and encumbering its property into private property through the use of corruption schemes. In the way that this law exists, it is a lobbyist law. In addition, the bill still contains a number of disagreements with the current legislation of Ukraine, which in practice pose serious threats to the rights of citizens and are capable of leading to numerous conflicts and misunderstandings. The definitions in the bill are in conflict with the legal provisions of the law. The bill introduces novelties for the management and management of seaports. I believe that privatization of seaports threatens the national security of the state, endangers strategic interests. Therefore, ports should be included in the list of enterprises of strategic importance. The transitional provisions of the bill are also inconsistent with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Moreover, the relevant changes proposed by this law do not violate other laws and there is no need to amend a number of other legal acts. That is why we have prepared an appeal to the Constitutional Court, along with my colleague Karmazin. I would like to point out that 52 national deputies were not in the hall when this vicious bill was passed. So we went to the Constitutional Court to eliminate this bill. I mean, that. I'll go to Russian so the voters can understand me there. I want to say that we have changed article 13 of the Constitution, which has not guaranteed any social security. So we've changed. I now quote: "Guarantee of the constitutional rights of seaport workers to respect their labour rights. The seaport workers working at the seaport are guaranteed, at the time of their entry into force, their jobs and salaries are preserved by the law." You know, it's very important. I've got a thousand calls today, and I think I've got a call, and we've got a rally in satellite cities. And I'll tell you, that's a very important topic. And I very much hope that our poor legislators who have sought this out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u211	Finish up, please. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u212	Those who have propounded the bill will understand and support our law, which Yuri Carmazin and I have passed, which prohibits the privatization of ports, which will be given to those who today have taken the most valuable and important step we have left in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u213	I'd like to invite Victor Ollynik to the "BOUT" faction. John the Rabbit will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u214	Olinik Victor, Faction of the Fatherland, Volin. Dear voters, June 10, 2012, in the city of Lutsk, Volina, a tragedy took place. About 4:00 p.m., a 5-story building down the street of Ravenska, 109. The siege led to the total destruction of eight apartments. Sadly, two people were killed in the city of tragedy. 77 injured residents were evacuated from the building and temporarily settled in the hotel. A few days later, on June 13, tens of the inhabitants of the two other driveways of the house went out for a protest, covered the street, demanding their immediate removal from the building, which they said was continuing to destroy. After that, the local authorities decided to temporarily move them to a teaching college dormitory. During these days, there was an extraordinary session of the Municipal Council of Lucca and a session of the District Council, at which decisions were made on the selection of budget options, the cost of purchasing parts of new apartments for the injured occupants of the house. The local councils also addressed requests to the Cabinet of Ministers for assistance to those affected by the Government Reserve Fund. However, it has been almost two weeks, and no help has been received from the government of the families of the dead and the victims. Although hundreds of millions of dollars have been allocated by the government for other purposes during the same period, sometimes not always comprehensible. Thus, nearly half a billion dollars were added to the airports alone, and no funds were found for the families of the victims and those left homeless as a result of the tragedy. That's why the "Boat of Fatherhood" faction in the Supreme Council requires the government to immediately consider the issue and allocate funds for the purchase of apartments to the victims of the accident to the residents of the building on the street of Ravenska 109 in Lutsk. We are convinced that this is not a task but a government duty to these people. Please consider this a formal request to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u215	Please describe this as an appropriate request. Welcome to John the Rabbit, the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." He will be followed by Valery Dubyl, the "Fatherland" faction. And I'm going to continue for 10 minutes so that the colleagues who signed up here can report on their problems in the districts. Please, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u216	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! Wise books in the Holy Book teach us that love is the only thing that does good everywhere and in everything. This wisdom is also fair in terms of authority. But is our authority, President Janukovic, government, the parliamentary majority of this wisdom governed? Unfortunately, no. Here are some examples. All over Ukraine, there is a gul of dissatisfaction with the work of the present authority. President Janukovic, the government of Azarov and the parliamentary majority for more than two years have demonstrated inadequacy not only in economic and social reforms but also in any decent government. Everything taken over by authority only leads to the deterioration of the lives of ordinary citizens. The administrative reform of this power has only resulted in the release of tens of thousands of professional government officials who have been replaced by their people but are extremely unprofessional. This has greatly weakened the public service, government, and general government. Retirement reform was turned only by raising the retirement age of women -- those who still hold three corners in our Ukrainian family home. When it comes to social reform, it must be said that authority is simply abusing people! Not surprisingly, the black people starved, the Afghans protested! People lose their jobs and their wages. They're just being robbed. Think about it! They rob those who have given up their health, even their lives, by protecting the nation. But that's not enough. In order not to unite in the struggle for their social rights, the authorities are opening the door to the rights of Ukrainians, to Ukrainian national identity, to Ukrainian statehood, and to the Ukrainian nation itself. And first of all, she wants to limit the scope of the function of the Ukrainian language, to negate its state status. This is what the language bill Kiwalova, Koleschenka, aims to do. This bill is extremely xenophobic for Ukrainians, because the destruction of the Ukrainian language is the destruction of the Ukrainian nation. It's all over the Separatian, because instead of one Ukraine, there's going to be 18 Ukraine's decision on local councils. This bill eliminates article 10 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which has ensured peace and tranquillity in Ukraine. But these Ukrainianophobics want to violate it, so they're proposing this bill. This bill is designed to ensure that peace and tranquillity in the country is violated. And when we talk about the political and psychological portrait of these people, they're pathological Ukrainianophobics with hero psychology. Think about it, this bill needs to be assessed by the Ministry, it's the lowest estimate, it's 17 billion dollars. Experts say 50-60 billion. And Koleschenko said at his press conference yesterday that it was very small. If it's expensive, let's take half the nation, Ukraine, shoot, it'll be cheap. Think about it. President Janukovic, the guarantor of the Constitution, defends a deputy who speaks to shoot half of this nation. Then who is this President, I ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u217	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u218	I believe that this language bill by Kiwalova and Koleshnichenko is just a link in a much larger project on the re-establishment of the Ukrainian State, which the President is creating through the Constitutional Assembly. And this goes even further into the Kremlin project called "Russian Peace." So we have to say that we're not going to allow the elimination of the Ukrainian language, not the Ukrainian state, not the Ukrainian nation anymore. We will fight for the Ukrainian language as for the existence of every Ukrainian and every nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u219	I'd like to invite Valery Dubyl, the "Fatherland" faction. He'll be followed by Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u220	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, the honourable voters today, during the speech of the minister of regional development and construction, we have not heard the answer to the most important question that concerns millions of citizens -- how to deal with the terrible situation in the country's housing and utilities. As a national MP, I am widely referred to by residents of Chernigov with complaints of a sharp deterioration in the housing conditions of the city. About the terrible emergency situation of the city’s housing fund, I witnessed with my own eyes daily in meetings with my constituents. At the holding of the city council, 734 housing units were built before 1919, and only 162 after 1990. The basis of Montenegro’s housing fund is the so - called shrubs, the roofs of the houses are flowing, the driveways haven’t been repaired for decades, the accelerant areas are neglected, the inner building networks are in a state of emergency. In my opinion, this disgraceful condition of the Chernobyl Housing Fund has resulted in the long-standing inaction of the executive power of the city, irresponsible and unprofessional decisions made by the Montenegrin City Council, led by the city's head Alexander Sokolov. In addition to ignoring the introduction of so - called incentive tariffs, Chernigiv’s decision also reduces the periodicity of certain types of utilities and excludes from the tariff a number of important services: the current repair of roofs, driveways, bearings, and protective structures, the equipment of children’s and sports facilities, the preparation of a housing fund for the winter of snow cleaning, the removal of kegs from roofs, and some other communal services. Further introducing this wrongful and irresponsible decision to the Montenegrin City Council in charge of the city’s head, Alexander Sokolovi, could lead to a sharp deterioration in the already poor housing stock of the city of Chernigov. Equally painful is the question of ignoring the interests of house dwellers when granting permission to build neighborhoods. There has been a critical point of patience. Construction of new homes and shops on the site of children’s playgrounds and squares in Chernigów has already become commonplace. Street Billowa, 27, 29; Friday, 49; Prospect of Peace, 21 and Victory, 119; Crossroads of the streets of Wojkov and the First Guard Army — an incomplete list of scandalous monuments against which residents of neighboring homes express themselves. It was a home invasion on Bill’s street that the parents, along with their children, stopped by setting up a playground. Desperate people are willing to break down the building fences and lay down in technology just to stop the illegal in fact, but built by the city’s authorities. Honourable Mayor Alexander Volodymyrovic, in his 12 years in the city of Chernigov, has only deteriorated, and 70 percent of houses have roofs running, no elevators are not repaired, and water is on their knees in the basements. With pain and tears in my eyes, people come up to me and talk about it. As a result, homes are built on children’s playgrounds and squares. So I'm going to ask you: either stop this prank or resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u221	I would like to invite Jaroslav Jojik, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by Korz Vitaly Terentiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u222	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Honorable colleagues and a respected chairman! During the presidential election campaign, and especially after the victory of Vladimir Putin in the presidential election, Russia's new old leadership took a course for the restoration of the Russian empire, where neocommunism and Russian great-state chauvinism, which was already called "Russian peace", led by the third Rome-Moscow, will be combined. Clearly, no Russian empire could exist without Ukraine, so the Russian queens and their Ukrainian fifth column launched an active attack on Ukraine’s economic, spiritual, and cultural sovereignty. Because of an unwarranted rise in energy prices, economic wars, the ban on imports of certain Ukrainian goods, Moscow is trying to weaken Ukraine’s economic independence. A bill on the language policy of Kiwalova-Kelešnicka, which introduces Russian as the second national language in almost half of Ukraine, Romania – in Bukovina and Hungary – in Zakarpat, was recently voted. In fact, it leads to the disintegration of the country. Equally dangerous is the Supreme Council Decision, the Declaration on Dignity, Freedom and Human Rights, which was developed with the participation of the Russian Orthodox Church. Covering up a beautiful name, this decree aims to no more, no less, abolish Ukraine’s status as a secular state, where all have the right to freedom of worship, and take the first step towards announcing the Moscow Patriarchate of the State Church of Ukraine. Thus, the fifth column of Moscow does its utmost to associate everything with Russian peace: economics, the Church, and language. But you and I know exactly where Ukraine belongs to the Russian world. It's colonial Malorosis with a crowded, undereducated people, not a powerful European democratic state with its own language, church and future culture, which guarantees us a Western civilizational choice. Ukraine did not pass the point of no return, but it was borderlined. My colleagues say that on June 5, when the language bill was passed, the opposition lost. I think I lost Ukraine. On that day, the first step was to destroy statehood and democracy, and for the first time in 20 years, people were mutilated for their desire to protect the right to speak their own language. The government has touched on a very painful issue, and it's caused opposition to the vast majority of the population. The only way to fight is through public disobedience. We can still stop this process. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u223	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u224	So I urge the parliamentary majority to stop, to stop, and to stop the process of promoting the language bill. You play with fire in a fire in which you can burn yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u225	I'd like to invite Korz Vitali Terentiyovich, the "Fatherland" faction. We're going to finish the "Razne" People's Deputy Kaplanko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u226	The essence of the issue that has really upset society is the sad bill 9073: on the principles of state language policy. And the question is clear and simple: Will Ukraine be Ukrainian? Let's not fool ourselves and each other, but let's face it: some of the members of the Supreme Council consider Ukraine not a state, but just an area that has a direct bearing on Russia, to the Russian Empire. These deputies also believe that Ukrainians are not a separate nation, but a "Southern" ethnic branch of the Russian nation. They also believe that the Russians are starting, not from the gro-Finese tribes of Povlja, but from the Kiev Russians, and the Kiev Rousseau is the cradle of the three fraternal peoples. Thus, in Russia and now in Ukraine, there are supporters who are not happy enough to change their language. Many who, without waiting for the law, have long gone into language and have boasted of their obvious, outspoken disregard for the Ukrainian language. In their speeches from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, on radio and television, they demonstrate this contempt for Ukrainian language, for the title of the Ukrainian nation, for Ukrainian culture, for Ukrainian history. After all, many of these have already been accomplished. Note enough about Ukrainian education, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian printing, Ukrainian health care, and social services to provide sufficient examples of anti - Ukrainian activities. I can't help but mention the contamination and pollution of Ukrainian language and Ukrainian culture and Ukrainian mentality by Russian vulgarism, particularly motherhood. That's the difference between Ukrainian and Russian thinking, Ukrainian language and proper behavior is built on a respectful attitude towards a woman who's a mother, who's called the coast of origin with respect and love. Instead, Russian lexic and proper behavior lay on the foundation of readiness at any moment to explode with an evil scornful, disgraceful insult to the woman mother and her children, to squander them with the word and the evil spirit. The drafters and those behind them well know that eliminating Ukraine is a powerful step towards. On the road to the restoration of the Russian Empire. Finally, let me name a fragment from a letter from the people of Chernigov and me. I quote, "Obviously.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u227	Thank you, Vitaly Terentiyovich. I'd like to invite Corporal Vladimir, a group of Reforms for the Future, to complete the hour of the Miscellaneous.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, respected citizens! There is a map of Ukraine called Zitomirščina, which has many glorious traditions and cities. We all know the ashtray railway traditions, the Burditch beer, the rosary oil, the Andrusha spirits and cheeses, or the Tarustian sugar plant. For example, the yeasts of Andrusha’s factory are brandy to this day, despite the fact that the plant itself is no longer functioning as a seven - year - old. But there is another side to this glorious land. I, the Ukrainian national deputy Caplienko Volodymira, have been repeatedly contacted by residents of the Andrush district of the Zitomir region with complaints that they had stolen a forest. They are not allowed in some parts of the forest that are directly near Andrushevka. As I understand it, there has been a brutal takeover of the forest’s general use. As a result, there is nowhere to collect berries and simply pass through the forest to the pond. It seems that the plots that took it by force, by force, keep the forest alive, live by the principle of "whoever is stronger, who is right" or "who is more pressing, who eats." So let me tell you, I, the People's Chamberlain, will give you teeth. Yes, you will forget the road to this forest. Consider this a warning from the Andrusha community and from me personally. We're giving you a month to get out of the woods. The rest of my speech is addressed to the Attorney General of Ukraine, and I ask that you consider my speech an official parliamentary request. Thus, the decision of the Žitomir District Council of 984 of 13 November 2009 given the limited liability of Kamya-plus to use 5,709 ha of hunting arrangements for 15 years as if to maintain the number of animals. However, at the time of the decision, Mr. French, the head of the estuary, had violated four articles of the Constitution and two articles of the Code of Earth, including the 8 and 57 of the Code of Land, as well as 2, 3, 13 and 19 articles of the Constitution. Also, the violation of the fact that Cameia Plus has taken over a much larger territory has set up a fence, has made no deal, and is today communicating with representatives of the territorial community solely through fists and demanding violent action against them. I want to tell you that the inhabitants of the villages of Galchin, Nekhworitch, Labedin, Urbankowka, Zarubinzi and Andrushovka expressed their unanimous opposition to the creation of such a reserve. The sessions of these councils, cities, and villages did not agree to such use. In view of this, I ask the Attorney General of Ukraine to intervene urgently in this situation and to initiate a review of the activities of Kamya-plus to identify the territory and the legality of creating obstacles to citizens' use of natural resources. Also recommend that the Zitomir District Council cancel its decision No. 984. Because I'm sure if the authorities don't do it, people will gather up and take out these thieves who stole the constitutional rights of the natives.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-22-m0.u229	Please make an appropriate request as a parliamentary request. I remind you, next week the national MPs are working with the electorate. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, July 3, at 10 a.m., and the Conciliation Council of the day before July 2, at 11 a.m. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Good luck.
