ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:55]] Cards were registered in the 412 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleague Kostenko Pavel Ivanovich. Please welcome the nominee and wish him success and health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 9 February 2012. Twenty-eight issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 5 laws and 21 decrees were passed, 4 bills were adopted on the basis of which one bill was returned to the committee for further consideration, and one bill and one draft decree were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 2 laws have been passed to the committee, 5 laws have been rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, from 10 to 11 a.m., are held "the hour of questions to the Government". Dear National Deputies! Representatives of the deputy factions and groups made a proposal: during the "hours of questions to the government" to hear answers to questions from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the cold weather situation in Ukraine, the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and what is the real situation in Ukraine, including in particular with regard to human lives, and on Ukraine's implementation of the last Parliamentary Assembly resolution of the Council of Europe of 26 January 2012. Deputies: The Party of Regions, "The House of July Timoshenko – "The Fatherland", the People's Party and the parliamentary group "Reforms for the Future" in accordance with part six of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the questions they ask the members of the government during the "hour of questions to the Government". Honourable National MPs, answering questions from MPs, groups and national deputies today will be Minister of State for the Extraordinary Situations of Ukraine Viktor Ivanovich Balog and Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you on a procedure to deal with this issue. 15 minutes on written questions, 15 minutes from the National Deputies. Both Minister of Balog and Minister Lavrinovich. And it's clear that it's an opportunity to ask questions to the government members present. The prime minister of Ukraine is not involved with the foreign deployment. I invite you to the rostrum of Ukraine's Minister of Emergency Situations, Victor Ivanovich Balou. Let's deal with it this way, dear colleagues, Victor Ivanovich, in turn the question is written by factions. And then 15 minutes, the lips, first the writings, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished members of the government! For two weeks now, Ukraine, like many European nations, has been living in harsh winters — with strong frosts, heavy snowfalls, and strong winds. A comparative analysis of the weather and temperature characteristics of recent decades gives us reason to identify the lower colds as an anomaly. The thermometers have gone down to the signs below the mid - seasons of this year. The arrival of strong frosts in Ukraine was not sudden. In two weeks, the MFN officially informed the government, central and local authorities about the rise in low temperatures. The information on severe cooling has been made public by all possible channels. Practical recommendations have been made for action and for the safety of people under extreme conditions. Throughout this time, the MNF has been monitoring the situation around the clock, modeling the development of weather processes, their impact on human health, and the state of the country’s life support. There is no detailed information deficit. Thus, early clear warnings have enabled all interested entities to take precautionary measures in accordance with their competence and responsibilities as defined by valid legislation. A number of advance decisions were taken by the government. An operating headquarters has been established to coordinate the work of the authorities. It included the heads of the Ministry of Interior, the Mini Infrastructures, the MoH, the Minenergos, the MHC, the Minibars, the MAF. Similar headquarters began to work in the regions. The main task was and remains to prevent human loss and to prevent extraordinary situations in life - sustaining objects. The Ministry made a decision on the immediate spread of hot spots throughout the country. There any willing person could warm up and eat, get warm things. Let me look at the dynamics of this work. At first, 100 points were installed in the district centers, Kiev, and Sevastopol, but as the temperature dropped, their numbers increased rapidly. Hotspots were created in all the district centers and large cities. We came from the fact that every hot tent we installed with hot food and drinks for someone could be our only chance of escape. The authorities, the public food agencies, regardless of the form of property, charitable organizations, private companies, and ordinary people have helped provide tents of MNS with food, blankets, and clothing. At this time, there are 3,000 386 hot spots in the country 24 hours a day. Their heat has warmed more than 130,000 people. The government asked the Ukrainians to support everyone who needed help in the cold. This call was received. On behalf of the government, I express my sincere gratitude to all who care for the support, concern, and mercy provided. Every day, 15,000 rescue workers and 3,000 technical units are fully equipped to respond to possible emergencies. In the event of a major emergency, 550 emergency recovery teams and 5 special trains with all necessary equipment and materials were formed by the Cabinet of Ministers. They're supposed to be here in five or eight hours to help in the event of an exit from life-support system. In addition, 35 million dollars are provided for the disposal of possible accidents. Defending these funds allows you to quickly cover the priority costs in a critical situation. I would like to point out that, today, there has been no extraordinary situation at the state level in Ukraine as a result of low temperatures and weather. Thanking God, I can also say that there is a part of the timely action of government and local authorities. Sadly, the cold took 112 lives. In each case, man’s death is an incorrigible loss. At the same time, it is definitely against politicians and politicians to speculate on the subject. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health are now closely examining the causes of each flight accident. This is necessary in order to objectively determine the extent of human loss from the cold and to develop additional measures to prevent it. In the vast majority of cases, the cold has become only a result. The reasons are largely domestic or social. I am competent to say that the Ministry of Emergency Situations, according to its responsibilities, has done everything possible to prevent the loss of human life from the cold. No person died from a cooling down in car jams, on mountain passes, or on tourist routes, and no one died during a ship crash in the Azov Sea or in other incidents involving rescue units of the MNS. In addition, I inform the distinguished audience, despite the scrupulous weather conditions, that on February 10, the number of extraordinary situations decreased by more than half over the same period last year, and the amount of damage decreased by 73 percent. In doing so, it is important to understand the prevention and elimination of any extraordinary situation, including the result of severe frosts, that it is complex and depends on the interaction of central and local authorities. These are interconnected issues that arise from the condition of roads, housing funds, utilities, electricity networks, and the whole sphere of life - support. The number of victims of cold winters should make us all: executive power, parliament, and especially those in the forerunners, are organs of local self-government to look at the needs of those who remain most vulnerable before the disaster, I mean our homeless compatriots. As early as 2005, when the law was passed, the state recognized homelessness as a social problem. However, the attitude toward this problem remains largely Soviet after that day. It comes from a time when the society cultivated the unacceptable and reprisals of the homeless, they were tried for criminal articles, and they were sent to Siberia to lay down the forest. This stereotyping by social workers must be persistently broken. Without doing so, we will not solve the problem of the homeless. We will continue to count their deaths either from cold or from sickness. In a civilized world, there is a double system of working with this category of citizens, which is cared for by the state and society. We have to admit that we have neither the power nor the public initiative. The reason lies in our world view, and we do not take this problem with our heart, regardless of who is in power or who is in opposition. Although we have a good law with you today. But in fact, we have another. We have 157 headquarters with the homeless, both state and public. The paradox is that even homeless people themselves do not know where those centers are or how to turn. Unfortunately, social services are not actually doing this information work. The state also has unused resources to provide for the homeless. All over the country, there are plenty of vacant places where shelters can be furnished, provided with everything that is needed, that is, to create disadvantaged living conditions. There's no need for cloudy costs. To begin with, it is enough to support interested organizations and create enabling conditions for the development of such activities. It is also necessary to establish a minimum level of social protection for homeless people, a clear definition of the rights, responsibilities, and responsibilities of those who are subject to the problem of homelessness. I am confident that by developing additional social guarantees for this category of people, the majority, together with opposition to the shortest terms, will give 450 votes for their legally binding. As you can see, the issues I have raised go far beyond the scope of the task and the prerogative of the MNP. It's a common business of power and society. We are able to move it forward at least so as not to keep statistics on human losses in situations that can and must be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u3	These are all written questions you have, yes, Victor Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, please sign up directly to the minister. All right, we're doing a recording. Names, please. Uklov Victor, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland," please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u7	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u8	Dear Victor Ivanovich! Clearly, the situation is difficult throughout the country. But the statistics and information reports that are coming show that there is a terrible situation in the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, it is much sharper. Well, obviously this is the result of activities, many years of activity of today's Ukrainian authorities, beginning with the first person and ending with the leadership of the parliamentary faction of the Party of the Regions. They've been running all these years, there's their business, there's their authority, there's their central authority, there's everything. Today this phenomenon is spreading throughout Ukraine, for the formation of power comes only from this region. Do you think it is time to generalize the negative experience, the negative practice of local authorities in the region that has led to such and human losses, technological catastrophes, and so forth?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u9	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u10	Mr. People's Deputy, I understand that there is a political subtext in your question. I would like to say the geography of those problems in connection with the deaths we have with you as a result of the cold. Geography is not that there are more deaths where Lenin’s memorials are left. [[Applause]] And the question is, in front of me is operational information: in the Zitomir region we have problems, in the Donetsk region we have problems, the biggest indicator, in Crimea we have problems, in Kirovgrad we have problems. At the same time, I'd like to say, in the Chernivsky region, no man has died, in Dnipropetrovsk, no one, in Zakarpat, one, I mean, I'm sorry, but this is a bigger question than what you're asking. I think we need to change our worldviews and our visions of the processes that are going on in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u11	Hanusztak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u12	Victor Ivanovich, the Internet's homeless don't watch, the TV doesn't watch, so where your hot spots are, in principle, they shouldn't know. But nevertheless, you would have to at least know where they are hearing, that is, those points, which were able to work ahead, because the vast majority of people died in the street because they couldn't get into the driveway, they were closed, and that's normal, because they're frozen in the basements that are frozen. Well, you can't say, "I put these hot spots, let everyone go, because they have to know where they are." It's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u14	When I reported to you, you probably didn't hear what I said or heard. If you've heard, I'd like to add an example of the Winnitsky area, for example. We have five fatalities. Place of death: near his own house, in a hospital, in his own house. You know, in each case, the cause of death is different. Yes, sadly, many people have died outside their homes. But you're saying there's no information. The information is where these tents are. I'm talking about that social services, the local authorities have to turn their faces to people who don't have their own homes today, and then we're going to change the situation. And what the Ministry did is I think it's a high level, and I'm grateful to all of my subjects who work around the clock and do everything they can to avoid flying.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u15	Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u16	Thank you. Mr. Reporter, I think you've noticed that there's no Prime Minister here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u17	The Prime Minister is on his way, I've informed him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u18	Oh, on the way out, I'm telling you, he's missing in the hall, which is different. I don't care why he's gone. It's just, I think you just didn't listen to him. He advised us not to freeze to throw away the snow with a shovel. So tell me, did you advise the homeless, the people who died? 130 people died. So they died because they didn't throw away the snow with a shovel at the Prime Minister's request or were there any other reasons? Because in a country that doesn't fight, which, in principle, doesn't go into a more serious technological disaster than the cold in the middle of winter, well, that's, of course, for Kiev, it turns out to be a disaster when it snowed. But anyway, I'm just wondering what the government's reaction is going to be: throwing away snow with shovels, changing Ukrainian time to Moscow -- what else? - Change your language? What extraordinary steps will be taken by the government to ensure that this will never happen again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. Not only do people die in Ukraine, people die in all of Europe, including Japan. The MNE and local authorities are doing everything they can to minimize critical situations. At the same time, what we need to understand is, if the questions of homeless people come first, not politics, not the question of what we have to do: to throw a shovel or, in fact, to identify every homeless person and help them, we will have a much better outcome together. We should not have power and opposition on this issue -- we should make decisions together that will enable us to have better indicators. There's a lot to work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u20	Oil, Faction "BUT" is Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u21	Dear Victor Ivanovich, you know, when we're listening to the news today, we see that it's actually coming down from the battle fronts. Every day we hear how many have died, how many have died. You know, you were talking today about setting up tents where people could get warmed up. That's probably right, but we know how the Tent of November 27 was installed in Donetsk when people died under these tents because of the actions of power. And I am convinced that what the authorities are doing today means only one thing: It is not really ready to protect life and health. We have a flood ahead, just as difficult a period ahead. Please tell me how the Ministry is preparing today to keep people from dying after a few weeks of flooding?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u22	First of all, I want the public to know that there are no extraordinary situations. And for those challenges that can be both natural and technological, Ukraine is ready. And I want to talk to you. You know, if we had a critical situation, not within Ukraine, but outside Ukraine, you would not be resting, but you would have collected 150 signatures and announced the next meeting of the Supreme Council in connection with the extraordinary situation in Ukraine. No one's done it, we're working on a regular routine. I don't see any problems at all. And the spring question. We're preparing for it, adopted by the government, approved calculations. Be assured that the government is competent and does not foresee any extraordinary events related to natural phenomena.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u23	It's a strange faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Basil Wonder, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Victor Ivanovich, in Ivano-Frankish, the district organization of the Party of the Regions organized 23 hotspots where they fed hot food and drinks. In addition, 18 mobile phones that traveled in the villages went to the house, to the elderly, and even towed warm clothing. In this regard, I have a question to ask you: Do you have any information about your participation in this action by other political parties? Because by the microphones, we're all so passionate about our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u25	First of all, I want to thank you for the constant help that the Party of the Regions is doing during the abnormally low temperatures. Yeah, it's really, they've opened tents all over the country, but at the same time, I want to thank all those public organizations, big companies and ordinary people who help at this difficult time when temperatures are so low.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u26	Gudima Alexander, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Minister! Goodima, "Block. Fatherland, Timoshenko Street. Today, when the 30 - degree ice cream that a person before gets up gets colder. Ukraine’s energy maximum, if we hadn’t gone to our Ukrainian time, would have burned hundreds of millions of tons more and burned the gas. Have you determined in the government how long will Ukraine live? Russian-era lobbyists who said "live behind Moscow" seem to have calmed down. We already thought that we would live in our time, that we would freeze to death in Ukrainian, not Russian, but it turns out that now you're offering us two more cycles through the Olympics. And the Ukrainians think, let's go one way and then the other way. Will you give peace to the poor Ukrainians in time or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u28	I want exactly the peace that the countries of the European Union have. It's perfect if we're both in the spring and in the fall we're going through and translating the clocks in sync with the countries of the European Union. Because our main task with you is to join Ukraine in the European Union. As a matter of fact, what do we have with you? We suggest that you go back to your summer schedule. This is what Europe will do. But in view of the fact that we have to find consensus in this room and determine which time zone we will live by, I believe that the decision is compromise and scientists, and in this room, I hope that there will also be more than two thirds of the vote for us to vote in the second time zone and in this second time zone to live. I think it's a deliberate decision of the government that will be taken shortly for the consideration of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u29	Heisuk Peter, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I give the floor to Deputy Crook.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u31	National deputy raven, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u32	Dear Viktor Ivanovich! Well, this winter has not been easy for Ukraine alone, and indeed unexpected. I would like to ask the question of whether the MCS is ready for the alarming signals that are in the press today, which we know about the Kiev GRES in relation to Zakarpaty, and what is particularly disturbing is the Kelejsky region of the Odessa region. You know, this is our Venice, and there could be no predictable consequences. And the second question. There's been a number of fire-fighting cuts. In Ishmaile, fire department number 14 was reduced in the village of South. I understand the cut needs to be done, but there is a cellulose-carton combination in this region. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u33	Please complete the formulation of your question. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u34	There are a number of fire-fighting facilities. And I think the elimination, people turn, they turn to the district structure, unfortunately, they get negative.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u35	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. I understand you're having a hard time with your groups today. Let's take care of our problems, and as a minister, I am competently stating that we have not had any reduction in the bottom line. Not one person, not one part. All the cuts that went through were at the expense of the management staff. What's more, the people we've reduced, we've sent everyone down to the bottom. So the accountants, the lawyers, the economists, the legal scientists -- we've all sent everyone down to the bottom. We've stepped up the string. And I think that today we did the best we can to reform and make all the downlinks stronger. The second question is the question of the material and technical state. I'm going to say that we're far from having the standards that the countries of Europe have today. But it's no longer a question of today, it's a question of perspective, of how we're going to work with you and how much money we're going to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u37	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u38	Dear Victor Ivanovich! You probably know as an expert and as a minister that in recent years the world has experienced major natural disasters associated with climate change on our planet. Including this year and another year, we feel what is happening naturally in Ukraine. And this has to do with the natural disasters that are taking place in Western Ukraine -- floods, storms and so on. Is your ministry developing a national national programme to prevent such natural disasters related to these issues on a long-term basis? And are you also doing a program of cataclysms that we can look forward to if we have a lot of industrial objects, so to speak, at the comprehensive utilization of our technical and other capabilities related to engineering facilities in Ukraine that were still being built in the Soviet Union? What is there in this regard? And what we need to do as a legislative body is not to be a one-time program.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u39	Thank you. It's a very systemic and serious question. The first block, I'm going to say that one ministry can't design forecasting and model for perspective, it's done with interaction with other central authorities, as well as the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. On the second question. Let me make an announcement so you understand what the state of life is for us in the economic sectors. More than 60 percent of underground communications in cities are critical but still exploited. More than a third of the water - management networks in Lugansk, Donetsk, Lviv, Crimea, and Sevastopol are half. A quarter of the water treatment plants need to be changed. One out of five pump stations worked. We need to replace almost half the pumps. A third of the sewers are old and emergency. What does this talk about? The issue of national security is the question of modernizing the housing and utility sphere. We need to start with you. We need to understand that in the Supreme Council, the first question that stands in the order of the day in the state is the issue of housing and utilities. We need to change our perspective on this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u40	Yes, National Deputy Tishchenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u41	Thank you. Oleg Tishchenko, "Timoshenko's House of July" faction, "The Fatherland." Please tell me, Victor Ivanovich, which systems of action along with local self-government authorities are used to account for homeless people, including children, and to communicate with them so that they do not allow us to go through Europe by the number of victims. That's the first question. And the second question. You said there would be no flood, that is, there would be no danger of flooding. But if so, what is our state’s readiness for such events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u42	Thank you. If you answer the second block of the question, say it could be in March months, I don't think anyone can say it today. But the relevant services of the Ministry, as well as the Minecology, are working on the modeling of the situation, and it is clear that we are prejudiced to see a situation that can develop from the point of view of natural phenomena. The question of accounting for homeless people is the question of social services, it's a matter of the Ministry of Social Policy. It's not the Ministry of Emergency.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u43	Yes. And Kirilo Kulikov, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u44	Thank you. Kirilo Kulikov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Honorable Viktor Ivanovich, visiting the city of Kiev today, is not Sofia Kyivska, not Lavre, which is successfully destroyed by the builders, not by the stadium under the Euro, but by the stench of the Bortnicka station of the aeration, from the main gates of the city, the capital of Ukraine. The TSC, who worked in parliament, repeatedly concluded that it was a bomb and several weeks ago there was a massive accident. We warned that all the funds allocated to the Air Force Station were being stolen. And it has to make a decision, a state decision that will happen to this phenomenon that does not exist in any country of the world. So, please, your position and whether you're transmitting material about what's going on to the competent authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. The question of theft is not a matter for the Ministry, there are appropriate competent authorities. On my part, I want to say that we need to deal with the shipping problem in a complex way. So when there are changes to the Budget Act in this room, I think that the relevant committee of the Supreme Council should work with the minister of profile. Along with the city administration, make a program and take it off for a maximum of two years. It's not like we've been doing this for years, it's not like we're doing this in a complex way. Locally or sectorally, we will not solve this problem in the complex. So I think it would be good to put a dot, but make a program, put money into it. And the only tranche is to do a tender and finish a job that doesn't upset the people of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u46	Victor Ivanovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u48	Time's up, sit down. Dear colleagues, before I invite the Minister of Justice, I'll tell you this. That I went to the Chief Bureau of Forensic and Medical Research of the Ministry of Health. And the Ministry of Health sent out statistics on how many people died from low temperatures from 2006 to this point. I'm not going to call this stats so I don't shock people. I'll tell the faction leaders to get to know you. It's wrong to demonstrate, it's not necessary to be happy, it's what's going on. Because if we take statistics from 2006 to 2011, we've had at least the last two years double the number of these people, but it's terrible, it's statistics. And we're obviously supposed to be thinking here with you, comparing this statistics to what we need to do. Not to tell you that these are bad, but we were good. And they didn't work very well at the time. And now we can't do it. Although what we have done, we must say: We have done much. Yes, she's suppressed the situation. But they did some work. What we need to do to ensure that we don't have these homeless and homeless people is already our responsibility. And I invite Justice Minister Alexander Lavrinovich. Traditionally, it's written and then it's written.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I have a whole series of written questions. And since there are similar questions from different factions, I'm going to group them with your permission, just so that two don't repeat the answers to similar questions. First question. "Do you think the independence of the judiciary in Ukraine is sufficient?" Question from the faction of the Party of Regions. The second question is similar to the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. "The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in its Resolution of 26 January 2012 directly points to the shortcomings of the trials, to the systemic problems of Ukraine's judicial system, notes the lack of independence of judges, points to ignoring the conclusions of the Venice Commission. All of these observations take place after the so - called judicial reform. The consequences of this reform are dependent courts, illegal arrests, and the illegal imprisonment of Yulia Timoshenko. How do you, as Minister of Justice, appreciate the judicial reform that has taken place in Ukraine, and in fact it looks like a coup d'état in the judicial system, which leads to catastrophic consequences in the protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights? How is the Ministry of Justice going to improve the situation? Is genuine reform of the judicial system planned? Will the relevant bills be introduced, which are and what are the terms?".. I want to say that the second question has many constitutions that do not correspond to reality, but everyone has the right to his or her subjective judgment. With regard to judicial reform and the independence of the judiciary, I think that we all know that 126 articles of the Constitution prohibits any influence on judges, just as every national MP is independent, but obviously the influence on the living, wherever they work, is dependent on the desire of the individual to have influence or to hear who he wants to hear. And that the Court of Justice and the Status of Judges Act, after it was adopted in the new edition, guarantees the independence of judges who are subject to a special order of appointment, election, responsibility and dismissal of judges. Inviolability, immunity, and inviolability of the judge are required. The procedural law defines the procedure for the execution of a judicial decision and the secret to the adoption of a judicial decision. Prohibition of interference with the exercise of justice. In addition, you know that an automated documentary and distribution system is in place. Although she has also been criticized, when it comes to very difficult cases, an automated system selects a inexperienced judge. You know that the powers of the heads of the courts are limited. A new, sufficiently transparent, selection procedure for judges has been created. The judicial system itself has been improved. We don't have specialized courts now that have four facilities, those that have three facilities, all unified according to the basic law. The procedure for drawing judges to disciplinary responsibility has been changed. And if I refer to the conclusion of the Venice Commission, I want to say that in this conclusion that was approved 15-16 October of the past, not in the past, I apologize, in 2010, most of the rules of this law that goes into this session hall are assessed as being one that meets recognized European standards. Nothing is clear. Of course, there are norms that need to be improved and the Ministry of Justice is working on this issue, and it has already prepared an appropriate project that is now under consideration in the government and in the administration of the President of Ukraine. Questions. "Do you think the composition of the High Council of Justice and the order of its formation of European standards on the independence of the judicial system are in place today? Isn't today the issue of changing legislation in this part?" It's a question of the faction of the Party of the Regions. And a similar question from the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko: "The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in its Resolution of 26 January 2012 expresses concern about the numerous credible reports of disciplinary action initiated and the dismissal of judges by the Higher Council of Justice on the basis of complaints from the Public Prosecutor's Office, because individual judges have made decisions that contradicted the positions of the Prosecutor's Office in a particular court case. What can you say as Minister of Justice, a member of the High Council of Justice? Are there real plans in the Ministry of Justice to reform the High Council of Justice, its functions, its composition? What will be done?" I can answer straight away. Yes, there are plans for the Ministry of Justice to reform the High Council of Justice. And from my subjective point of view, today’s form of the Supreme Council of Justice, its authorization, its structure cannot fit the established Constitution for it. Change it can only be complex with changes to the Basic Law of Ukraine. But in addition to that, I want to say that where it was possible to fix it without changing the Basic Law, some of the norms are done. In particular, with regard to the way in which the High Council of Justice is formed, both the conferences that elect scientists, prosecutors, lawyers and the election of members of the High Council of Justice in the sessional Hall of Parliament, the appointment of the President of Ukraine is stipulated that two out of three nominees should belong to the judiciary. This has been adopted in laws that have recently been passed in this room. So this step is already done. In addition, I want to say that the Council of Justice itself does not release anyone, it only makes recommendations, which then become the subject of a hearing here in the sessional room, and they are considered in a comprehensive manner, because the procedure provides for a serious combination of the arguments of the various parties and the right of each of the judges on whom the disciplinary case is being considered, to sue in court the decision of the High Council of Justice on the appropriate recommendation. I think that this question will continue to be a subject of improvement, because when working on the changes to the Constitution, it is obvious that a whole range of approaches will have to be changed that apply to the functioning of this body. Next question. "Do articles 364 and 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code allow for criminal liability for political decisions?'a question from the faction of the Party of Regions. And a similar question from the faction of the People's Party. "The Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 26 January 2012 on the Functioning of Democratic Institutions in Ukraine states that articles 364 and 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine are too broad to apply and essentially allow the post-criminalization of ordinary political decisions. This is contrary to the rule of law and is unacceptable. The Assembly therefore urges the authorities to amend these two articles of the Criminal Code without delay in their responsibility for the Council of Europe standards and to remove the charges against the former members of the government set out in these articles. What measures are being taken by the Government to implement this paragraph in the resolution? In what terms will the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe be met?".. It's a question from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. And from the National Party: "Please give your assessment of the recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe without delay to amend articles 364 and 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in order to bring them into line with the standards of the Council of Europe." It's too difficult to talk about standards. I want to tell you right now, I'm going to list only countries, I'm not going to list the positions of the articles that are in countries that belong to the European continent and are members of the Council of Europe. In Lithuania, Hungary, Austria, Bulgaria, Finland, France, Italy, there are similar articles that we have in our Criminal Code. What's more, I think you know that under these articles, there are sentences handed down by former French President Jacques Chirac. A recent sentence handed down to the former Prime Minister of Hungary, former Prime Minister of Romania. I think if we're talking about standards, well, there's a way to look around that the standard should be then for everyone, but not just for one country. In addition, I want to say that there is no such article in Germany, particularly in Germany. It has separate specialized standards in its Criminal Code. With regard to how this article applies, Ministry experts have analyzed the application of these articles in criminal proceedings in Ukraine. And the jurisprudence that they show is that acts that fall within the classification of as criminal acts are described as such that "the conduct of acts that are the competence of a higher official of this department or of a service person of another department falls under these articles; the conduct of acts that are allowed only in special cases, either with special permission, or with special order in the absence of these conditions; the conduct of one-person actions that could only be carried out in a collegiate manner; the conduct of acts that no one had the right to carry out or to permit." I also want to say that, well, we need to understand objectively the history of these articles and what we have in 2008, 2011, 2010 was mentioned in the action plan "Ukraine – the European Union" as being essential for anti-corruption. What we had last year approved was the question of these articles, which are necessary, by a group of states against corruption of GRECO, also by the Council of Europe of MANIWEL, which literally said that these articles in Ukraine were essential in order to fight corruption. This is also true of the United Nations Convention to Combat Corruption. Clearly, then, it is not possible to say clearly that these are articles that are not needed in the State. But what you can change is whether you can change individual formulations, or instead of these two articles, you can do eight or ten others, where you can write what's already happened in practice. This is a question that can only be resolved in this session room. "Everybody knows that today the courts are satisfied with about 90 percent of the data on choosing a precautionary measure in the form of custody. In doing so, part of such decisions is not justified or considered by alternative precautions, which is that keeping the watch is unreasonably long. In view of this, what are the ways in which you can solve the problem? In particular, will the mechanism laid down in the draft Criminal Procedure Code solve the problem?" Question from the faction of the Party of Regions. And a similar question from the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko: "As we know, the Ministry of Justice is the curator of the country's penitentiary system. At Lukyaniv, a man has been detained for eight years without a court decision. When will the constitutional rights of this person and other Ukrainian citizens be fully guaranteed?" First, I will respond accordingly to this person. I'm not going to give any grades, I'm just going to say, actually, that's the fact that happened. This is a member of a gang of militia coups, whose lives, robberies, robberies, tortures, and so forth are huge. Two months ago, he was sentenced to life imprisonment. I think it's right to predict in special cases, I think, like this, the right to hold back until the time of sentencing, not to release from the custody of the person who sent dozens of people into another world, because what could be the consequences afterwards for society. As far as the approach is concerned, yesterday was adopted in the first reading of the draft Criminal Procedure Code, which largely addresses these issues. I think most people have come to know at least the basics of this code. Well, obviously I don't have the opportunity to tell you what's going on. But I want to tell you that you can open the relevant articles, and that's where these questions are solved. There's still a whole bunch of other questions. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, perhaps written questions thesis over there for one or two minutes? Is there no objection? And then directly from you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, then, if possible, for a short time calligraphy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u51	Yeah, I'm fine. "In view of paragraph 8.3 of the Resolution, is it possible to limit the time given to suspects and their supporters to familiarize themselves with the material of the case? [[1862]] In particular, do you think there are sufficient lines to familiarize yourself with the material of the case in the draft new Criminal Procedure Code?" From my point of view, in the new project, it's all secure. "The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has clearly outlined the requirements for the release of the illegally imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko, Valery Ivashchenka. Similarly, the resolution clearly defined the requirements for medical examination and medical assistance to Julia Timoshenko. As for Yuri Lucenko and Valerija Yvashchenka, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe requests that the two persons be released immediately before the trials against them are concluded." Well, I think you understand that it's written a little differently, in a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly, and the release of the person for whom the sentence has gained legal power, perhaps only by a decision of the court, if that happens, with regard to the annulment of that decision. And in the case of pardon, in the case of amnesty. With regard to persons who do not have a court sentence and are not yet found guilty, their release is possible when a precautionary measure is reviewed. There's a whole bunch of reasons when this trouble can be dealt with in a court of law. As far as other questions are concerned. "What measures have been taken to implement the 2010 Resolution?" The language suggests that this resolution highlighted the need for the Ukrainian and Ukrainian parliaments to adopt a number of anti-corruption decisions. On 7 April 2011, an appropriate law was passed, a national anti-corruption strategy was adopted for 2011-2015. On January 13, the Criminal Procedure Code was introduced here, which was also a requirement of this resolution, and was adopted yesterday in the first reading. The question relating to the re-implementation of the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. "The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is responsible in the state for all matters of bringing national legislation to European standards. What will be the plan for the implementation of this resolution?" We must say that there are a number of issues raised in this resolution. The most important is the systemic issue of legislative change, which includes the need to implement constitutional provisions. What's starting now is the work of the constitutional assembly, this is the mechanism that will allow for those directions where time is inexorably demanding changes in Ukrainian legislation, so that we can do this in a comprehensive way, starting with the Basic Law. "Does the existence of a 5-percent barrier correspond to European standards? How do you feel about the fact that the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe expresses concern about raising the threshold for proportional elections to 5 per cent in combination with the ban on parties from forming electoral blocks for participation in elections?" I mean, that. The first question is the factions of the Party of the Regions. The second question is the factions of the People's Party. What I'm trying to say is that the 5% barrier meets European standards. In 11 countries of the Council of Europe, where the proportional part is used, the percentage is 5 or more. So you can't say that Ukraine invented something phenomenal. In addition, countries like, let's say, a new democracy, a new wave that started with 2 percent, like Poland, today have 5, and it's clear. Why? Because Parliament has to be not only representative, it has to be working. So it's obvious that these approaches are perfectly normal. As for the integration of political powers into elections, in the form in which we were in Ukraine, it does not exist anywhere. There are ways to unite completely different when coalitions are formed before elections, which are then required to work in Parliament. There are other absolute numbers and approaches to overcoming barriers. And for the united political forces, this barrier is between 7 percent and 15 percent in the Council of Europe. So please look at the relevant material to understand that in this case the decisions made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine are justified.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u52	Thank you. Let's probably move on to written questions, MPs insist. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the question. Names of the national MPs, please. Faction "BUT" is Fatherland, Tishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u53	Thank you. I'll give you the Sobola word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u54	Sergei Sobolev, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u55	Alexandre Volodymyrovich, I will still have a question about the resolution of PARJE in the part that is directly related. The first is with the direct appeal of Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the need to stop the selective application of the anti-opposing jurisprudence and the related issues. You know that this week, the changes to articles 364 and 365 were considered, not part of their cancellation, but part of the amendment, just as the Council of Europe advised. Where there is a list of individuals who cannot be directly applied to these articles. In addition, circumstances are key, which make up the fabric of crime, namely, personal convenience. Please tell me when the resolution of PARJE will be implemented, because in this part of the letter goes to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this question is not within the power of the government to change the rules of any law, including the code. This is the competence of Parliament. With regard to such a sign as personal convenience, I can provide you with immediate help. In those lands where such articles are, there is a possibility of condemnation, even if there is no personal advantage, but the actions of an official have brought harm to the country and have been done on the grounds that I said when the authority of another official or of a college body or other authority has been transferred. So it's not a question of professionally speaking, so one-lined. Obviously, a simple dialogue and a search for how these articles should be changed with the absence of even hints may be necessary, suspecting that there might be a political element. This is not just this year’s question or the outstanding Ukrainian politicians who today have responded according to the availability of these articles, but they have applied in previous years. And obviously they didn't pay attention to the fact that that's how they were written. I think that in thoughtful work and in a desire for common opposition, and most of them to solve this question, because this question applies to one another today, tomorrow, it applies to all, it can be solved. And the confrontation on this issue absolutely cannot produce any positive results.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u57	Please, Pacheek.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u58	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u59	A sand mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u60	Thank you. Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich, in paragraph 14.3, of the Assembly’s resolution, expresses pity for the inclusion in the law of election clauses that limit the right to vote in the elections of persons who have a tie. At the same time, the Assembly acknowledges that article 76 of the Constitution repeats those same positions. So the question is, is it possible to repeal the election law without amending the Constitution? And second moment. Whether it is possible to make changes to the Constitution before the electoral process begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. Well, the obvious question is that changes to the law can certainly be made. But the rule of law, which does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, can quickly be stopped by the Constitutional Court. As far as time goes. You realize that the procedure for amending the Constitution involves a time that exceeds that left before the start of the electoral campaign. As far as approach is concerned. Clearly, what is declared, so that those convicted of crimes are entitled to participate in the elections, I do not see any problem here. Perhaps this will have to be done, if there is such a social need when working on changes to the Constitution, there will be such a consensus. I think it's perfectly normal if that step is taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u62	National MP Danilenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u63	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Vladimir Danilenko, Sumstina. Lately, as a national MP, I have received quite a lot of appeals that the courts have refused to accept cases to deal with children of war, Chernobyl cases, and so forth. That's the first one. The other one. From the Cabinet of Ministers, individual officials are ordered to suspend the execution of court decisions previously taken by the Pension Fund on payment of decisions already made. How can I, as a national MP, protect the rights of these people who are addressing me today on this issue and we cannot solve them positively for the people?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u64	Thank you for the very important question. Because it refers to a huge number of Ukrainian citizens. And one of the biggest problems that was created in the years that the Ukrainian State existed by the authorities of the state. It was the failure to implement a large number of social benefits decisions for various categories of benefits that led to the adoption of a pilot decision by the European Court of Human Rights against Ukraine in part of these payments. And you obviously realize that you've made decisions in this room that determine that payments can only be made within the national budget of Ukraine. It's accepted as a norm. The Constitutional Court had previously ruled that these payments could be within the existing state resources. Then, in the State Budget Act 2012, this rule is also recorded in this sessional room. Clearly, then, this problem exists and can only be solved in a fair way by distributing what is in the country, what is not there, cannot be distributed. And if what there is is is distributed in this way: that one -- very much, the other -- is very small in one category of debt, obviously that's also unfair. I think that's why there are courts that have to decide in which case to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u65	Ivan Stojko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u66	Alexander Volodymyrovich, please tell us yesterday that the representative of the European Union in the Ukraine of Teisher said that the area of free trade with SND and Europe is not possible at the same time. We know that the Prime Minister of Ukraine signed this document in Petersburg. We really haven't seen him, I hope you've seen him. But he's about to take us to the Supreme Council. And we will have to accept it or not accept it. So the question is, is it possible to be in a free trade zone with Europe, with the European Union and with the SND at the same time? Are these mutually exclusive documents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u67	I can say that this is not the subject of my competence to give a definite answer in one way or another. I can say that the more free movement of goods, services, labor, the better for the country. If we are able to trade freely with all the countries of the European Union, with all the countries of the SND, this will be a great benefit for Ukraine. The important thing is that the standards that will be applied do not conflict with one another and create preferences for another.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u68	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u69	Mr. Minister, I'm on the right hand side of you, I wanted to ask you a question about international lawsuits, lawsuits won. On the two - page website of Minsk, we can see those international organizations that are judging Ukraine, which have already won courts in Ukraine. Let me give you some examples. For example, Russia is a $2.4 billion lawsuit. American companies are worth $150 million, including a lot of lawsuits. British companies are over $100 million, and they are tired of fine lawsuits. Austria is 12 billion, 8 won. Germany is 8 or more. So almost $5 billion today in lawsuits, our Ukraine, of which the left share is already won. So my question. What was the fate of these appeals? How is Minuste going to shut down? Whether to put in a budget to put out at least the winners. Because the authority of our country is the image of our country and all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u70	First of all, I want to say that you got a little bit wrong in the figures, because the vast majority of these court disputes are won by the State of Ukraine, thanks to the hard work of the legal department of the Ministry of Justice. The loss is due to the fact that, unfortunately, officials at various times have adopted decisions in their places that have been deliberately directed towards the damage to the state of Ukraine. And for me today is the biggest problem that I would like to find a way to solve -- regressive appeals against these officials. So there are still decisions that are, well, just definitely, 100 percent focused on causing damage and protecting it is already impossible. But where the damage is and is done, where the decision is and is legally enforceable, to this day there has been no claim in any country to our state of failure to execute these judicial decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u71	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the members of the government for taking part in the "hour of questions to the government." For questions that require additional response and the provision of written additional materials, clarifications, and solutions, I would ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Honorable national MPs, according to the Rules, take 30 minutes on Friday to make parliamentary inquiries — this is article 25 of the Rules. Allow me to make the parliamentary inquiries that have come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the deputies. Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the functioning of democratic institutions in Ukraine, namely: the condemnation of Yulia Timoshenko and the trial of Yuri Lucenk, which in the event of failure could drive Ukraine into a "reservation" and the authorities into isolation from world co-operation and subordination of Russia. I would like to vote in favour of the MP's request. [[11:10:37]] For-55 Enquiry. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 39, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 14, communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 2 Alexander Blackwolf to the head of the Supreme Council, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Justice, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on trafficking in human beings within the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of speech and information regarding the use of measures to properly comply with the requirements of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Media and Social Protection for Journalists on the provision of free housing, heating and lighting rights to journalists living and working in rural areas. Julia Kovalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine regarding the improper response of the law enforcement authorities and prosecutors to the illegal activity of Ukrainian citizen Tigrain Martirosian and the urgent solution to the question of drawing the person to criminal responsibility. Ally Alexandrovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for State support to the company "State Science Centre for Medical and Medical Products" with the aim of implementing import policy in the pharmaceutical sector. [[City of Kharkiv]] Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of providing heat to the population of the city of Svetłovodsk Kirovograd. Victor Olijnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the use of measures to prevent liquidation and the sale of property of the public shareholders' association "The Research and Development Bureau of Geophysical Equipment". Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, the Head of the Kirovograd District Administration, the Head of the Kirovograd District Council on the use of effective measures aimed at the immediate repayment of arrears from the payment of salaries to employees of the State Enterprise "Kyrovograd Repair Plant", which resulted in the loss of livelihoods. Vladimir Lešchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Government's practical steps to resume the course at the Chernigow-Gornostivka district of a simple suburban diesel train. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Kirovograd District Administration, the Head of the Kirovograd District Council on the use of urgent measures aimed at the immediate repayment of arrears on payment of salaries to almost 600 employees of the State Enterprise Trust "Alexandria resorbed". Excuse me. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the release by the Minister of Culture of Ukraine of the leaders of the main national museums and reserves of Ukraine, which means a brutal attack against the culture and non-necessity of people who care about the preservation of the cultural and spiritual acquisition of Ukraine. Viacheslav Koval to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for approval as soon as possible. [[Aesthetic education schools]] Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the development and submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a State Target Program for the Conservation of State and Municipal Cultural Institutions in the Rural Region. Veacheslav Koval to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to speed up the development and implementation of the financial mechanism for the provision of aesthetic education schools in order to prevent the destruction of the network of listed educational institutions. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional and labour rights of members of the crew of the LAKI TRAIR and the guarantee of their salaries. Katerina Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to eliminate the emergency situation and to carry out capital repairs to the laboratory corps No. 2 of the Volin National University of the name Forest of Ukraine. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds for the purchase of a microbus to the Kakhov Social Rehabilitation Centre for children with disabilities. Leonidas Grač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need and urgency of a fair and well-founded recalculation of housing tariffs. Leonidas Grač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the head of the Mikolayev Village Council of Andrija Sergeyev and the director of the Krymga Budust company Peter Zaytev on gasification in the villages of Dzdol and Winnitsky Simferopol district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Marina Perestenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to address the legal status of the State Enterprise Radgosp Plant "Plodové" of the Bahchisaraya Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the selectivity of allowing forestry workers to travel to the shores of the Kakhov watershed. Mikoli Shershun to Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure that the social guarantees of education and culture workers are met. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of authors of scientific dissertations. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the verification of the complaint made by representatives of the Public Shareholders Association "Research and Development Bureau of Geophysical Equipment" regarding the artificial bankruptcy of the company in question, the conduct of an objective, according to the complainants, planned verification of compliance with and compliance with the requirements of fire safety by the General Department of State Technological Security in Kiev, which may lead to the decision of the Supervisory Board of the Society on its liquidation. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for clarification of the Government’s position on encouraging the use in Ukraine of hybrid cars and cars using alternative fuels to preserve the environment. Alexander Schepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to ensure the proper financing of conservation activities. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the leading museums and the National Reserves of Ukraine in connection with the change in their leadership. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District State Administration for the Concern of the Territorial Communities of the Poltava Region on the need for the construction of a gateway regulator on the Sula River in the Tarasovka village to ensure that surface and groundwater levels are regulated in the floods of the Sula and Orzica rivers in order to avoid ecological and technological situations. The Group of Greenewecko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the assessment of the potential hydrocarbon resources in the Odessa region. Anatolia Matvienka and Paul Zebrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the obligation to enforce court decisions in matters of payment to the general public. Ruslana Knazević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the sustainability and effectiveness of financing the implementation of delegated duties by the Kalu City Council. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District State Administration on the urgent steps taken to prevent the raiding of the State Enterprise "Lermontowski Clinical Sanatorium" in Odessa, the conduct of an immediate examination of the fact that private shareholders of the private stock company "Ukrproszdovnica" and other interested persons of the crimes envisaged in the relevant articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code have been called to account. Jury Prokopchuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the cessation of corruption, the non-admission of raiding and bankruptcy with the aim of privatizing the State Research and Project Institute of Titan. Anatolia Matvienka and Pavel Žebrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the review of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012 in part of the subsidy to local budgets. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the release from office of the Director General of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska Nelly Kukovalski, following the slander of Peter Toločka. [[Candner, Struyka, Moses]] Valerija Baranov to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine for Dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary appeal of 26 December 2011 on the support of the domestic cable producer. Mr. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the delay in the decision of the Commission for Humanitarian Assistance to the Cabinet of Ministers to recognise the humanitarian aid of the cargo in the warehouses of the Salem charity mission in the Malin district of Žitomir. Mikoli Tomenka and Stepan Kurpil to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, is the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for ensuring the timely delivery of periodic press to subscribers of the Ukrainian State Postal Service. Anatolia Yagoferov and Valerija Calchenk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the calculation of pensions for persons who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration, for violating the order of detention and foreclosure of dogs of potentially dangerous breeds. Valery Calchenk is responsible for the head of the Court of Auditors for carrying out an audit of the use of the funds allocated for the reconstruction of the Kirovograd Academy of Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre called Kropivinski. Viacheslava Kirilenko to the advisor of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Directorate-General for Humanities and Social and Political Affairs of the Ukrainian Administration for Dissatisfaction with the response of the Kyiv City State Administration and the State Consumer Protection Inspectorate to a parliamentary request for infringements of consumer rights, existing legislation and discrimination against Ukrainian citizens on behalf of the tourism company OUPEN KIEV, which provides excursion services in Kiev. Victor Matchuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of measures to detect and prohibit the use of means of transport in which the sinking of glass does not meet defined standards. Vladimir Karpuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Volin District State Administration, head of the Wallin District Council for the prevention of the liquidation of the Volin Regional Pathological Anatomy Bureau. Vasila Amazing to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the implementation of coastal consolidation and counter-restraint measures aimed at preventing the development of dangerous geological processes in the village of Kosmach, the Medveziy, the Kosovo area, the Ivano-Frankiv region. Igor Alekseieva to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the issue of personal control of the resonance case for the very negative impact on the population of radiation from cellular substations in Hmelnicky, on the conduct of appropriate laboratory studies, and on the direct involvement of people in the continued exploitation of harmful cell equipment. Irina of the Coastal Health Minister of Ukraine regarding the verification of medical practice by Andriy Slusarczuk Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the creation of a working group on the restoration and preservation of the regional landscape park "Bakalska Kos". Alexander Kemenyash to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for information on the age of drivers of vehicles who have become responsible for the accident. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the Secretary of the Kyiv City Council on the need to initiate changes in the Budget Code and in the budget of Ukraine for 2012 regarding the return of 100 per cent of the person's income tax to the budget of Kiev. Alexia Fedun to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the immediate completion of the repair of heat stations on the streets of Topolavi and Stadium in Kiev. Peter Cibenk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the rightfulness of the decision by the Luhansk Regional Military Commission to appoint Leonid Volkov as a member of the military. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Authorized President of Ukraine for the Rights of the Child, the Zitomir District State Administration, the Johno-Frankow District Office on the need for comprehensive assistance in the treatment of children of Maria Kostuk and Oleg Boredek in order to ensure their inalienable natural and inviolable right to health protection and timely medical care by the authorized authorities of the State. [[Bondik, Prutnik and others]] Groups of National Deputys to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine, head of the Kirovograd District State Administration for the illegal release of the Deserved Artistic Actor of Ukraine, Michael Illashenko, from the post of Director of the Kirovograd Academy of Regional Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre, Mark Kropivnitsky. [[Karpuk, Kenzior and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the former Director General of the State Enterprise Zlatodar. [[Davemuk, Kurpil, etc.]] Anatolia Griesenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful decisions and actions of officials of the Ivano-Frankow City Council, the illegal construction of cultural heritage in the protection zone, and the improper treatment of the prosecutor’s office with regard to the conduct of the procurator’s examination. Vladimir Lešchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the legality of the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Chernigiv Region by depriving the Federation of Trade-based Organizations of the area of ownership of administrative and educational premises. Eugene Kzarkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Science, Innovation and Information on the situation surrounding the "EX.UA" Internet resource. Eugene Dobrak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the continued illegal actions of citizen Valery Prudnik in relation to citizen Alexander Redeuce and the refusal by the Pecher district administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev to file a criminal case concerning Valerija Prudnik for the notoriously false report of the crime. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Vladimir Konstantinov for violating the Constitution of Ukraine and chauvinism. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the requirement to ensure the proper implementation of Ukrainian legislation regarding the functioning of the national language in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the use of measures to respond to the defiant statements of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Vladimir Constantinova to the address of the Ukrainian language and to the public appeal to ignore the language laws of Ukraine. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for the improper examination of the parliamentary request and the provision of unreliable information on the health status of Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka. Irina of the Coast to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of response measures in relation to criminal cases against Andri Slusarczuk. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on Ukrainian statements by the Head of the Supreme Council of Crimea Vladimir Constantinova. Igor Alekseieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the question of the organization of a legal review of the conduct of the management of the private stockholders' company "Seppet's Timber Combine", which led to the actual bankruptcy of the company and the failure to pay the employees. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the Herson District Council on the alienation of property belonging to territorial communities of villages, villages, and cities in the district council. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal seizure of the publication of the journal Science and Culture and the magazine "Tribuna" at: the city of Kiev, the street of Prozizna, 10. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine for ignoring the Communicatorship of Vassilkov Teplemerze, the decision of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of municipal services regarding the calculation for the population of the city of Vasilkova of the Kyiv region of illegally installed heat tariffs. Ruslan Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of law enforcement officials regarding the Private Shareholders Association of the Stalkanat Silur. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-refundation of deposits to the owners of the Maritime Credit Society. Sergey Kiwalova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the non-privatisation and illegal seizure of the premises of the Svivo Book store, located at: the city of Kiev, Velika Vasilkovska Street, 6. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response to the appeal of the Ukrainian national deputy by officials of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the non-application of measures to commit illegal acts and the adoption of decisions by the Head of the State Intellectual Property Service, which contain signs of crime, the use of appropriate response measures. Jury Crook to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures of prosecutorial action to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Yuri Treguchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a thorough examination of the crime claim. Jaroslav Kendzior to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the independent investigation of journalists of the Lviv channel ZIC regarding the activities of the deputy head of the Lviv district government administration, Vladimir Gubitsky. There's a clarification to be made here. It's about not responding to journalists' investigations, so. I'd like to ask the Secretariat here to clarify it with the author. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Authorized President of Ukraine for Children's Rights, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute a court decision on alimony to support Irina's minor child on Wednesday, 2003, which has a significant impact on her welfare. [[Bondik, Prutnik, Plonikov]] Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the number of violations of legislation by officials of the Ukrainian Security Service in the conduct of a preliminary investigation into the case of Julia Timoshenko. Andrija Paruba to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the verification of the cooperation of the newly appointed Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Dmitr Salamatin, with the Chief Intelligence Directorate of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation. Caterina Vaszczuk to the head of the National Land Agency of Ukraine on the regulation of the size of the resources provided to residents of the town of Krolevec in Sumska district of Mikhail Romaška for the development of a land project for the removal of land. Jury Crook to the head of the Ukrainian State Water Agency for the use of appropriate measures to reconstruct the pumping station and the work related to the restoration of the canal and the reconstruction of the gateway near the village of Stara Nedorovka, Ishmael district of Odessa. Valerija Suškević to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the implementation of the judgments adopted in 2011 concerning the payment of payments provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Sergey Tereshuka to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for the calculation of the gasification of the village of Viknina in the Cherkas region. Sergei Gordienka, head of Poltava District Administration, Prosecutor of the Poltav region for the protection of the rights of landowners of the Lubensky region of Poltav region, which, as a result of a gross breach of contractual terms of land rations by Nafkom-Agro, is not paid rent. Alexander Shepelev to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the urgent use of measures to minimize the impact of the flood in Kiev. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the head of Kiev City State Administration, head of South West Railway for the opening of a new Russian City Electric Station in Kiev. Julia Kovalova to the Kharkiv City Head on providing information on the upheavals of privatization objects that have been made since January 1, 2005, in Kharkiv, where restrictions are placed on the change in the object’s purpose. [[ban]] Oleg Zarubinsky to the prosecutor of the Zakarpat district for the removal of sources and consequences of unlawful activity committed in relation to the chief physician of the Mižgir district hospital of Zakarpat district of Vasil King. Thus, honourable national MPs have made 144 parliamentary inquiries. Honorable national MPs, according to the Rules of the People’s Deputies Vladimir Yavorowski and Eugene Marmazov, have made a request for appropriate documents to be presented to them in response to parliamentary requests. That is why Vladimir Yavorowski and then Eugene Marmazov have the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I think that in fact, any of the national MPs working in the system of parliamentary inquiry, as one of the forms of parliamentary work, can stand here instead of me, getting answers. Because today, I don't think a lot of people will deny that our parliamentary requests are shooting peas on the Berlin Wall. *** We get answers that aren't qualified. Usually we are told how it should be, but they hardly ever respond to what is happening the other way around. Because of this, this is exactly what I have here. Today, I think that very many of our fellow countrymen, citizens, are informed about the construction of this helicopter in the Kyiv will zone. Because as a national MP, people ask me, I wanted to know how, by what permission, why it happened that in the historic reserve of the Kyiv Mountains and the Valley of the Dnipro River, and I call it a reserve, a state reserve, in which without the permission of the Supreme Council, I emphasize, without our collective permission, you can't even cut down a tree. On what grounds did the site begin to be built in the most sacred place in Kiev by placing this concrete cube there? I asked the City Council to explain whether there was such a permit or not and to the Ministry of Culture. I was told that the Ministry of Culture had not granted such permission. And the Kyiv City Administration explained to me what they would consider later. This was at a time when the construction was complete. This is one situation. I'm convinced that if we had an independent prosecutor's office, today we would be able to make criminal cases and judge people for breaking a few laws at once. But that's not even the point. As it was discovered, it was still building and building this facility for President Amadeus and Ko. Well, "who," you know, disguises very often under this very "who." It was discovered that they had started to build even before the land was taken away, that there was no document of what it was to be, and then it was discovered that this object, which was being built, was private. And imagine, from the national budget, the money is being spent, and this object is going to be transferred into the vat by hand. Here's what's going on. Instead, I only have notes about it. I think it's okay out there and all that sort of thing. That's the situation, and that's why, unfortunately, the President, it's built for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u73	Eugene Marmazov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, from this rostrum, there has been repeated talk of a situation that has arisen everywhere with the looting and actual destruction of the Alexandria Stormhouse complex. I have repeatedly addressed the Government, the Minister of Industry, to the Attorney-General's Office. Following a working visit to the Kirovograd region in October 2010, President Yanukovic wrote to the Cabinet of Ministers before 20 January 2011, citing: “To work on further development of Ukraine's turquoise complex with a view to the integrated use of coal as energy and chemical raw materials. More than a year had passed, but the President's mandate remained unfulfilled. The pressing issues of the city's life cannot be resolved. Tens of thousands have lost their jobs, but no one is hiring them. Almost 50 million griffins are unliquidated in arrears. Workbooks have not yet been returned to those who have been dismissed from liquidation. The families of the former miners are not provided with house coal. Many have no means of living at all. You can imagine the sentiment that led to the despair of losing all faith in the justice of the city's inhabitants, the vast majority of whom voted in favour of Yanuković's presidency and the last parliamentary elections for the Party of the Regions. This was discussed in my request from the rostrum. I urged the President to intervene personally to address the problems of Alexandria. It's been a month and a half since the President's answer. It seems that the President is not being reported on such matters. During a recent visit to Yanukovič Kirovograd, the mayors and deputies of the Alexandria Horsovjet, who wanted to report to the head of State on the situation in the city, did not allow it at all. I also asked the Government urgently to identify with the future prospects of the Alexandria Stormy Complex, to address the life problems of the city's inhabitants without delay, and to bring to justice officials whose actions have led to the destruction of the entire domestic economy and the violation of the legitimate rights of thousands of people. A few days ago, I received a letter from the Undersecretary of Energy, the Makuhi coal industry, to which I had not addressed. In fact, this is a formal note, from which it follows that Minenergougol is still working out a programme for the development of the turret industry, although, upon the President's instructions, this work should have been done a year ago. With regard to the repayment of wages owed to miners, other issues, the Government had essentially not been able to resolve them. This forces me to reiterate my request to the President to finally put an end to the matter. And because it seems that our petitions do not seem to reach the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u75	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u76	I ask you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to inform Viktor Fedorovich personally on this matter, with whom I hope you have regular contact. Perhaps, at least after that, we will be able to move the issue of the importance of the State and the vital interests of tens of thousands of citizens of our country from a dead point of view! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for the two performances that have spoken, I ask you to prepare appropriate documents, appropriate responses. Well, I'll just say, time for MPs is up. Dear colleagues, please! I'll send it to the Rules Committee, MP ethics, and let them study the validity of your proposal. I said again, otherwise on Wednesday, speak up, it'll be formulated as a request. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation is being announced for consideration. [[about the software document system]] I'm making a proposal to the Committee to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee will say that all the positions relating to the provisions of the Constitution are deleted during the first reading. [[11:42:52]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, if there are more than 100 articles, cannot be considered. You'll see how many articles there are. Please! "To" - 194. Decision taken. We will not allow for a coup d'état. I said that the committee would propose on the first reading to remove all positions relating to violations of the Constitution. This will be fixed in the decision. Please, don't ruin it! Please, the reporter is Yuri Miroshnichenko. The reporter is Valérie Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u78	Honourable voters, honourable colleagues, the President of Ukraine, have been introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council to draft the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[about the software document system]] [[Registration number 9665]] The project is designed to create more favourable conditions for the President of Ukraine to implement constitutional powers, including the strengthening of the role of the Head of State's annual messages to the Supreme Council on Ukraine's internal and external status. It is proposed that, on the basis of an annual message from the President of Ukraine, the State budget be forecasted for the next two budget periods, the design of the main budget policies for the next budget period, and the design of the corresponding budget. It is also envisaged that the executive authorities will issue their acts not only for the execution of the President’s acts but also for the execution of his annual letter. The Cabinet of Ministers, the central executives, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local administrations will also be governed by the annual message of the head of state. In order to ensure the implementation of the measures set out in the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme and to strengthen the coordination of the work of public authorities from its implementation, the Presidential Decree of Ukraine approves the National Action Plan for the implementation of the programme each year. Under these circumstances, the bill proposes to exclude from Ukraine’s laws the need for the development, approval and implementation of Ukraine’s State Economic and Social Development Programme. Thus, the adoption of the law will allow for higher results.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u79	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u80	Thus, the adoption of the law will increase the efficiency of government finance management, strengthen the strategic component of budgetary planning. Dear colleagues, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u81	The chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Baranov Valeriy Alexiyovich, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budget Affairs has considered a bill amending certain legislative acts under number 9665. The bill proposes to amend individual legislative acts on the implementation of the President's annual communications in the activities of executive bodies, taking into account the relevant provisions in the programming documents, the main directions of budgetary policy, etc. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine commented on the bill, particularly on the legal status of the President's annual letters and other programming documents. The Ministry of Finance supports this bill. Earlier, it should be noted that the individual positions of the bill had been very intensely discussed at the Committee on Budgets, and the Committee on Budgets had expressed its opinion and noted that there had been no narrowing of the powers of the Supreme Council and of the local authorities in the process. Needs to be complemented and listed by legislative acts that are amended with regard to the deletion of provisions, where reference is made to the State's social and economic development programme and the provision in the bill of legislation corresponding to the Government's mandate, specific changes to laws that require the introduction of technical legal rights and others. In view of the fact that software documents for the following year have already begun to be developed in the data, first of all, the 2013 draft of the Basic Policy for Budget Policy, the bill needs to be considered in this session. On the basis of the draft bill, the Committee on Budget Issues approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that it should be adopted on a basis solely on the basis of Bill 9665 and that it should be entrusted to the Committee on Budget Issues in short periods of time to prepare it for second reading, taking into account the number of comments made. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u83	Please sign up for the performance. Alexander Blackwolf. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u84	Dear friends! These are the reporters who are now speaking, and unfortunately they haven't told us the substance of this law at all. Let me describe in two words what this is about. The point is that in the Office of the President, some officials are clearly going to write various wishes to the President of Ukraine for their annual report. For example, build cities there, roads there, and so forth. And it's going to be written down, and it's going to take money. And then the government has a budget resolution, local administrations in budget execution, when they change budgets, they do all of this. It's an extremely corrupt law. I think we need to consider this law, first of all, from the point of view of possible corruption. And I think it would be extremely shameful to issue, vote for him, if it found support in our Supreme Council. Little did Litwin leave the hall, not wanting to pollute his laws. Dear friends! This law is a typical example of how state law is implemented. Now Carmazin tells me, I think he should demand a word and say it himself, by the way. And Jacinyuk, who also has a lot to say about it. So I want to tell you again. This is an attempt at a coup d'état, an attempt to write down the vice president's functions. It is an attempt to end the distribution of power to executive, legislative, and judicial. This is an attempt to violate the Constitution in a part that concerns the powers of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. It's an attempt to turn the President's Administration into something like a CCPC that gives the instructions necessary for the execution of all other authorities, and it's not responsible for anything. So I ask you once again, dear friends, not to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u85	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u86	Thank you. I think it's best that Mr. Mikola Tomenko, our vice-speaker, tells us about the disgrace of this bill. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! It's not about the bill. The person who read this document is subject to amendments to six laws, four of which are constitutional laws: the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the local government administrations. And I think whoever read this bill will understand why the opposition refused to participate in the constitutional assembly. There you know, there's four places that give you space. Because constitutional changes take place without a constitutional assembly, without a society. This bill is the final transformation of Ukraine into one of the strongest, I would say, authoritarian models of the Presidential Republic. If you look at it, the budget process cannot in principle be influenced by Parliament, because the Budget Code, which was adopted by most of us, has taken away our ability to influence the budget from the first reading. Now the Supreme Council will not even approve the principles of budgetary policy. So the whole budget process is going partly to the government, and to a large extent to the President's Administration. The second thesis that characterizes the model of the presidential republic is that the government is practically out of the local administration system. In significant positions, the President's Administration directly manages local district administrations, district administrations, to achieve one or the other. I think that, well, there's no point in discussing this bill, because even our science-expert administration is saying clearly that it's an unconstitutional bill. I think that, for example, we could support this bill as an opposition if two points were added. The first item is to unite the Presidential Administration and the government into one body. And the second item is to release the Prime Minister of Ukraine and appoint the President of Ukraine as Prime Minister of Ukraine. That makes sense. We will dissolve several thousand people, and the President's Administration, and the President will direct leadership and responsibility for the socio-economic situation. I don't understand the place of Parliament and I don't understand the position of Prime Minister and Government. And most importantly, there must be some personal responsibility, friends. This is our science-expert office, which wrote that this is an unconstitutional bill, which is clearly signed by the head of management, the executives: Goodzinski, Grebenjuk, Chechov. And from the Presidential Administration, we have a document signed by one man. Well, that's not serious. The Constitution, the State and the political system are changing, and one Akimova signed a bill for us. So once again, it's a constitutional coup, and I agree, and I think it's a shame if Parliament supports such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u89	Grivkowski. Don't insist. Please, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u90	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would like to draw the attention of both my colleagues and all of Ukraine's citizens to the fact that such an important bill is being considered under a reduced procedure. And here those who spoke offered even a shorter term, a simplified and shorter time limit for bringing it to the second reading. The bill is super important and super dangerous to our nation. It is contrary to the basic principles of the distribution of authority. And what was built is the balance sheet and the balance sheet and the counterbalances. I draw attention to the fact that it is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and is depriving in fact the Supreme Council of the right to intervene in the budgetary process. I would like to remind everyone who hears us, who knows or doesn't know that the first in the world of Parliament in England was caused by people wanting to control the revenue and expenditure of the state. And the main function of parliaments and the system of councils, of the peoples, is budgetary function. So here we are completely getting rid of it, Your Honor. Let's even look at what the message of the President of Ukraine is. What is this act or what document? Where is it officially fixed? It's a very dangerous bill. The faction of the Ukrainian Company will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u91	Please, Caplienne, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u92	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill in the first reading and we'll tell you why. I don't see myself as a member of the group, please don't worry, dear colleagues. As a member of the group, I see no obstacle to this bill being considered in the first reading. Yes, Ukraine is suffering today. If there's no development program to get out of this pit, if we're only going to protect the status quo of the active model, as those who are yelling here are doing, I want to tell you, then nothing will happen. We need to move forward. There's a program for that. And if the President's message goes into the number of acts or, for example, references or the programming principles that are being interpreted today in the state as promising, let's take them into account. Not enough, there's a misrepresentation of the facts. It prohibits nothing, and the Constitution for today is also no barrier, not 113, not 116, not 119. Why such speculations should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u93	Mikhailo Chechetov from the faction, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, if we are to cast our emotions aside, we should probably answer one question. The country will develop dynamically if one strategic programme is implemented in the country. If Parliament adopts its programme, we will pull the country, the Government, on the other hand, the President, on the other hand. It's like in the famous fairy tale of "The Swan, the Cancer and the Hammer" and "The Train and Now There." And now there's a train. And the President is a legitimate figure, a national leader who has received the highest degree of legitimacy by being elected by the people. The President's programme is a key strategic direction. And perhaps everything should be built into the implementation of this programme. Therefore, this law provides an opportunity to create the most favourable condition for the President to exercise his constitutional authority and to ensure the national security of the country. That's why we're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u96	I demand a replica, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, you may demand a replica, but I know how the lines say you're my last name. No one insulted you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u98	They insulted me, misinterpreted my point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u99	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the system of software documents) (9665). Based on the base. [[B in m in s a l in]] After the vote. [[11:58:56]] For 241 The law was adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u100	Give of your motives, then! Adam Ivanovich! Give of your motives, then!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u101	There's no motive. Replica, one minute, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u102	Adam Ivanovich! It's an anti-constitutional coup! Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u103	The factions. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u104	Carmazine. Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u105	By factions, please show me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u106	Now it's actually happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u107	The group of regions – 188, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 1, the Communists – did not vote, the National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, "non-factional" – 13. Please, Carmazine's microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u108	Dear National Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Under your guidance, the first episode of the anti-constitutional coup is now being made. I'm making a point. A source of law, such as the President's annual letter, the legal theorists don't know. It's embarrassing to the students, Adam Ivanovich, what you're making! Mr. Miroshnichenko, you're an experienced lawyer! You've reported from here today serious things that are only compared to the guidance of Mao Zedun, Chuche or the unforgettable Leonid Ilich Brezhnev. Here's this fateful document that everyone has to follow and refer to now. And everyone here can read their own. This is 415 pages. But I open 116. The president writes: "Review of the pension scheme for pension categories of pensioners." And the Constitutional Court, which today is, to be liberated, to be eliminated as a class simply, which 67 million dollars received today as political corruption, takes the President's decision! Shame on that decision! It must be cancelled.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u109	So, dear fellows, I'm giving my last words to those who think it's called. A name is not a right to a replica. A reply is given when a member is insulted or perverted Just one minute. But it won't happen again. Blackwolf, there'll be no more like it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, this law is another testimony to the fact that today's President and today's authorities have nothing to do, and this law is a manifestation of their weakness. They have exercised so much authority that no president in any country has such authority, neither Russian nor American president. The other presidents, however, had -- this was, for example, Colonel Cadafi, this was Ben Ali, this was the President of Egypt, they had such powers. I am now addressing the President's Administration, personally to the President and to all this so-called majority. You have so many powers that you can change the life of the country. So far you're only changing your own life. I demand that Parliament remain a parliament. I demand that this Parliament do not multiply by zero national will, because if you give all the important administrations to the President's Office, let's close this institution, we'll save you a billion dollars, because that means that only one Yanukovich is in charge in this country, and you're all not even hired into it, and you're all his slaves.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u111	Dear colleagues. Let's talk about it. First, by October all the folders you say will be forgotten. So take your time. There's an offer to work all the time, but. Keep your hands where I can see them. Cancel without interruption so that you can go to the Vault 30 minutes early. Is there no objection? Sass insists that we not vote on this proposal. I'm making an offer to keep us working all the time, but we've moved on to the Miscellaneous today. [[12:03:28]] For 266 Dear colleagues, in addition to half an hour, that is, not at two o’clock, but at the end of the first 30. "Crazy" will be today. We are considering a draft Act amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities. [[on the list of customers not participating in the rations]] [[Bill No. 9778]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:04:16]] For 223 Initiative supported. As reported by Kozub Alexander Andriyovich. Get ready for Maibeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The current Ukrainian Law on Urban Control stipulates that a customer who intends to build a land plot in an appropriate location is obliged to participate in the creation and development of the engineering and social infrastructure of the inhabited area. In doing so, the fuel contribution to the development of the infrastructure of the inhabited area is to recalculate the purchaser’s acceptance of the construction project into the relevant local budget of the cost of creating and developing the designated infrastructure to the size of the local government, but not more than 10 percent of the total cost of building buildings. Part four of article 40 of the Act provides: "Freed from the commercial participation of customers who construct buildings at the expense of budgetary resources, educational institutions, cultural, physical culture and sports, medical and health purposes, individual types of housing, facilities provided for by the State Objective Programme for the preparation and conduct of the final part of the European Championship in 2012 from football at the expense of investors, social infrastructure objects, etc." At the same time, there are no engineering, transport infrastructure, energy, communications, and road management facilities in this list, although such buildings are in themselves infrastructure objects, affect the development of the region as a whole and contribute to industrial development, and improve the availability of social facilities, environmental improvements, and so on. The project has been selected to contribute to investment in the construction of engineering transport infrastructures and so forth, industrial potential growth, and the development of social infrastructure in the area. Please accept as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u113	Please, My Lord Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee, at its meeting on 8 February 2012, considered the draft Act amending article 40 of the Law on Urban Regulation on the List of Customers, which was not involved in the participation of the People's Deputies of Ukraine by Kozuba. [[Registration number 9778]] The draft law is intended to amend the fourth part of article 40 of the Law on Urban Regulation, namely: to supplement the list of customers who are not involved in the construction of engineering, transport infrastructure, energy, communications, road services, other than road services. The Committee agrees that the proposed change will create conditions to increase the construction of engineering, transport infrastructure, energy, communications and road services, which will have a positive impact on the economic and social development of human settlements. The Chief Research and Expert Office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. As a result of its consideration, the Committee proposes that the bill be adopted on first reading as a basis. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, shall we vote? Sign up. Grivkowski. Don't insist. Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u116	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Yuri Hanustak of the Party of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u117	Please, it's Ganushka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u118	Yuri Hanustak. Gentlemen, we were just looking at the government report, and Balog was speaking. He said, "The utility infrastructure is completely destroyed." What are we doing? We still need money for this infrastructure. So the pie building, the pie participation is actually a part of building infrastructure, the utility infrastructure. If you release someone, that means someone else will pay for it. Now look, you're releasing non-specific objects, you're releasing businesses. They're also doing something else, which is they're making a profit. So you can't accept this project because it is, it's actually a blow to the back of local self-government. You all went to the polls, even called the Party of Regions. What kind of a party are you? You're a bunch of lobbyists. Now you're lobbying a few of your firms and you're going to completely destroy local self-government. Would you like to help? So in this case, take on a normal budget policy to give extra money to local self-government, not that kind of thing. There is no one to intercede for local self - government. The most centralist party is the Party of Regions. And I'm going to tell everyone about it if you're going to accept this project right now! Look what's going on in the end! Who will compensate for this money? Where will this money come from? Do you want the infrastructure to collapse completely, so Balozy can add extra money to the emergency situation? To build normally, it is five times cheaper than it is to cope with an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u119	Moses gives the Blackwolf his word, please. After him, Fedun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u120	Well, obviously, the construction situation in Ukraine is very complicated and it's obviously that this is the one, this string that, if you take a peek, you can get the whole economy out. So I disagree with the previous speaker. Everything about infrastructure development, and engineering, and transportation, and engineering, and preparation of the territory, I would expand on that side of the proposal, not just to get rid of any payments, but even to get help from the state. Otherwise we can't build anything and we can't do anything. I want to say that construction in Kiev, in other cities of Ukraine, has been done for the last 20 years, mainly because of the infrastructure that has been prepared, which has been in previous times of development in Ukraine. And if we want to continue to develop something in this country, we need to encourage everyone who invests in the development of engineering infrastructure and has, in a broad sense, the engineering and transportation structure, energy, communication, and we need to encourage them in every way to be free from taxation. Thus, as a first bold step, we should welcome not only the engineering infrastructure but also the engineering preparation of the territory. And what I'm saying is that the very idea of ovative *** participation is an old, Soviet idea that was used on completely different principles of smoking. At present, the local authorities must primarily finance the city’s development by paying taxes to this city. So once again, I demand that you return 100 percent of the citizens' income tax to Kiev. This will be a major contribution to the development of Kiev’s infrastructure and an example for all of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u121	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation. [[on the list of customers not participating in the rations]] Bill 9778 registration number. Please vote. [[12:13:08]] For 268. Decision taken. Factions: The group of regions – 184, BUT – did not vote, "Our Ukraine – 6, the Communists – 25, "The People's Party" – 20, "The Reforms" – 19, non-fractional – 14. We are considering the draft Law on State Lotteries in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8652]] Now I'm going to see there's not a hundred articles here. None. I'm making a proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:13:56]] For 218. Offer supported. Reported by one of the co-authors, Victor Petrovich Korge, to prepare for the Poluniev Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! In order to settle the gaps in domestic legislation, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on State Lottery in Ukraine. Since gambling and lotteries today are based on different principles, they are in fact different, even though they and others have signs of gambling. By comparing the main economic indicators of the development of European states in line with lottery market developments, I can give some examples. The GDP per capita in Austria exceeds the equivalent in Ukraine by 3.5 times, and the volume of the lottery market in that country exceeds the Ukrainian by 177 times. GDP in neighbouring Poland per capita is 1.4 times higher than in Ukraine and lottery market development is 13 times higher. These examples show that the main factor contributing to the development of the lottery market is the way it is organized and the availability of an effective and regulatory framework. That is why the bill proposes the modern principles of lottery organization. The main thing is the state monopoly on the organization, which consists of exclusively state lotteries, competitive selection of operators and limitation of the number of operators. Next. This is an increased control over the lottery, the limitations on the size of the lottery, and the ban on participating in the lottery, which is under 18 years of age. And the third. It's social orientation. When lottery money is used for social purposes, finance culture, sports, and the health of the nation as a whole, which is in line with widespread world practice. Thus, the proposed principles of the state monopoly for the holding of lotteries to the greatest extent today reflect the need for the proper organization of the lottery market. And every player who spends his money on lottery tickets realizes that his bracelet goes to a clear social goal, and this market is transparent and under state control and guarantees. Dear colleagues, since the year 2012
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u123	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u124	announced by the President and by the government as a year of sport and a healthy way of life, we have a good opportunity to approve this bill in the near future, which will be the first step towards channeling the funds from the lottery to the social needs of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u125	The committee reports to the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Yuri Volodymyrovich Poluniev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u126	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on June 15, 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on State Lottery in Ukraine. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the bill, to adopt it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 14.06, notes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the following observations and suggestions. I would like to point out that the bill has been developed using a modern overseas experience of regulatory regulation of the lottery business. The bill was discussed, approved with the European Association of Lottery Business, which today is a fashion legislator in this area, and in general corresponds to the modern methods of lottery activity in the country. The committee discussed the need for further drafting of the bill in such directions. To provide in the text of the bill requirements for raffle operator availability standards, to specify and detail the order of the status of the state lottery operator, including the availability of a sufficient lottery distribution network, to foresee that any lottery terminals should not contain devices and programs that determine the result of the lottery game and the size of the player's winning or connecting by Internet, telephone or other connection to such devices or programs. To protect the rights of active state lottery operators to obtain licences after the adoption of the bill. Please support this important bill for the country in the year of the Euro-2012, as well as for the development of sport, the health of the nation is an important bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u127	Thank you. I don't think state lottery numbers are just sports. Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Teryohin, please. He's behind him, Black Hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u128	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The main question is whether the lottery should be regulated by a separate law, the answer is yes, of course. I remind you that there is no such legislation today. There are some rules in tax law and regulations. There's nothing left. And another absolutely corrupt law that now prohibits the creation of new lotteries, restricting the market to four existing companies today. By the way, all of these companies belong exclusively to foreign capital. There's no national capital. What about this law? Let me just put it briefly. A lot of interesting ideas, standard ideas are, which, the rules used in the European Union, let's say, not just. But there is lobbyism. Let's say it's a lottery market management policy. Again, a specialized body is being created. They are delegated to anyone, including the national MPs. Well, of course we've been through all this. More than that. Regrettably, a lottery business is being pulled out of the direct management of the Ministry of Finance, which is unacceptable. Because it's primarily focused on financing the budget deficit. More than that, it was rightly said that it was right in the law to write out the rules on the availability of the capital of these lotteries. And as many licensing terms as possible, there are no licensing conditions in this law again. So I would love to, and on behalf of the faction, we stick to this position: we have to take the basis of this law, we have to throw out all the "hotels" that came out of this law again, and there can be no other way, because most of them support it, and very carefully prepare this law for the second reading. If there's this lobbyism that exists today, well, then it's just going to be another privatization of some of the state finances. That's what it looks like now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u129	Blackwolf's handing over Arjovetine. Prepare Bondarenko, but a party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u130	I also have a position that this bill can be supported in the first reading, that is, taken as a basis. Because the main criteria, the state monopoly and the social direction of the funds that will come from the distribution of the lottery are the right two basic principles. With the bill we want to convince the Ukrainians that the Ukrainians who are taking part in these lottery games, they are going to become sponsors of the development of social programs in Ukraine, it's the right thing to do. Has this bill actually achieved everything in this way? I don't think it's enough. Here, I think, are some flaws. The bill states that all incomes will be directed towards social programs, i.e. the special fund according to the budget. We know we have a budget, there's a big bastard. So, I think in the law we have to write clearly in the next edition: either exclusively on such a or maybe a percentage ratio, as is the case in the GNI countries in the same bills. [[for culture, sports]] I don't think there's a clear list of criteria for the Cabinet of Ministers to choose these operators. I think it's a good source for classical corruption. This figure needs to be determined: 100 million for the operator to keep the bank account permanently at the time of receipt of the status and for the next five years. We can imagine if this operator is the only state-owned enterprise, and where 100 million brothers are involved, keeping the negotiable funds at all times. I think we should think about that. In my opinion, a bill in such an editorial is overloaded with glossarys, various interpretations that may need to be reduced as much as possible. I don't think it's a sufficiently mirrored mechanism to protect against money laundering and so on. That is, for the first reading it is appropriate, but of course it still needs to be seriously worked on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u131	Thank you. Bondarenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u133	Please, Bondik Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u134	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! State policy in the field of gaming, including lottery, should be. And the thing is, we have to solve this problem in a very complex way. Why? There is even a call for us to adopt laws on bookmaking, and we must. If the state has to regulate the financial services market, we have to pass a bookie act and so forth. The factors that colleagues have already talked about, such as the high price of a license, they will not be able to allow parts of a variety of shadowy plots to engage in this activity as a lotteries. And I think the Ministry of Finance, which issues these licenses, will develop order, and all of this will be prepared by us in law for second reading. So I ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u135	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft State Lottery Act in Ukraine as a basis for the first reading. [[Registration number 8652]] Please vote. [[12:25:29]] For 265 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending Chapter XX, Chapter 4, of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on the characteristics of income tax collection]] [[Registration number 9760]] The authors suggest that we consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:26:02]] For 218. Supported. Please, Karakai Yuri Vasilovich. Prepare Vitalia Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill is designed to provide a conducive environment for investment in the creation of new high-tech enterprises in the sectors that are at the legislative level with us, as priorities for the development of our state at this stage. When we adopted the Tax Code more than a year ago, we provided these businesses with appropriate incentives for their development. Regrettably, applying these standards in practice has shown that some of them allow variations or are not clearly stated. To address these technical, I stress, strictly technical flaws and this bill is being directed. At the same time, considering that its implementation will allow or ensure the implementation of the directions that we have foreseen with you, by adopting the Tax Code and introducing certain incentives for these areas, it will allow for increased investment in the creation of these enterprises, there will be new jobs, taxes and congregations, and more budget revenues. Taking this into account, I would ask the Supreme Council to consider adopting the bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u137	Yes, please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at its meeting, reviewed the draft Law amending Chapter XX, Subsection 4 of the Tax Code, a bill submitted by the People's MP Karakai. The bill proposes to extend the right of the taxpayer to use tax-exempt costs for the development of productive capacities aimed at the production of electricity from renewable energy sources and to extend the deadline for the use of such funds, allowing for the accumulation of resources as capital investments for medium- and long-term projects in the use of renewable energy sources. Such benefits exist in the Tax Code, and certain tax payers’ rights are extended. The committee supported the draft law at its meeting and recommended that it be adopted on the basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u139	Thank you. Shall we vote? Yes, please sign in. Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u140	“Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”, “Fathership”, Andrew Pavlovsky. Well, both the lobbyist law and the whole thing. Please pass the word to Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u141	Sergey Teryohin. Prepare Pachetsuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u142	Dear Mr. Homettinick, we didn't make the whole decision on the committee -- we only voted on the basis, and that was only the representatives of the Party of the Regions. Let's see what this is about. Now, there are income-generating subsidies from renewable energy sources. Now what is suggested is to do in such a way as to free not the income from energy but the income of the subjects. I mean, roughly, let's model what's going to happen. Such an example. Let's say there's a pig farm in the metallurgical plant. Pig farm produces pig shit. It's pig shit that comes out of it, and it's gas that comes out of it, and it turns the turbine. Well, now he's going to be exempt from taxation by a metal mill, and no, I'm sorry, by the way, by the way, who uses pig shit. So it's a lobbyist bill, absolutely clear, and I want most of it to be accepted, and I want the International Monetary Fund to tap my nose again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u143	Packet, please. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u144	Dear National Deputies! We can throw dirt here most of what we want to say, but we need laws with you to adopt what is needed in the state today. And I suggest you stop making statements here and vote for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, or a question to you and to the Committee of Regulatory Affairs. I would like to ask you, do you have the requirements of the current Law on Anti-Corruption Expertise in the preparation of draft legislative acts? Obviously, they are our responsibility. Let me remind you, this article 15 of the anti-corruption law has not been conducted. But what I'm trying to say is that Teryohin's right-hand man was giving you an example of that pig shit. By the way, in the Donetsk region, they're suffering enormously from the shit that they say belongs to one of the vice-ministers, the biggest complex. People complain because it doesn't allow them to live properly, yeah, yeah. You know, all you have to do is destroy it, and it takes money, and it saves money. So it was written in the law: the profits of electricity companies from the sale of electricity produced from renewable sources. And now it's going to be written that this is the profit that comes from the main activity of electricity companies that produce electricity from renewable energy sources. So these are completely different things. And quite right, the bill is described as lobbyist. I'm wondering why our scientific expertise didn't write about these experiments, but between the lines there you can see what they think is controversial about the fact that we can't get rid of past times and so on. I'm against adopting this bill, and I think if.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u147	Yes, thank you. Anatoly Merkowski, First Deputy Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u148	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Finance does not support the adoption of this law as a whole, but in the first reading. Two arguments. First, there is an increase in the types of activities that are taxed on the loss of the budget this year, which may amount to 670 million dollars. And secondly, there's an expanding list of where this liquor can go. Part of the income tax for non-energy-saving activities. This is contrary to the President's requirement for exclusive use of energy savings taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u149	Thank you, the discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter 20, Section 4, of the Transitional Provisions of the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9760]] Please vote. [[12:35:01]] For 247 [[B in m in s a l in]] I hear Karmazna, so there are MPs. According to factions: 174 – Party of Regions, BUT – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 1, Communists – 23, "The People's Party" – 20, "The Reforms" – 17, non-fractional – 12. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on payment to the court]] [[Registration number 9674]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's going to be "Virgin." Don't worry. [[12:35:45.]] For-191 Supported. Please, Zabarsky and Ljovczyna are from the committee. Please hurry, Vladislav Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You will have before you a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on payment to the court. The adoption of this law has been called upon to improve the situation of the current legislation of Ukraine through the introduction of a judicial assembly in criminal proceedings and the introduction of cases of administrative offences, the determination of the size of the rates of such a judicial assembly, and the adjustment of individual rates of the judicial assembly, which are applied for by the court for the submission of the motions provided for by procedural law. The main purpose of this law is to create a legal mechanism that will allow the costs of dealing with specific categories of cases to be compensated. In particular, the project foresees that in the case of a court order imposing an administrative fee on the person charged with such a fee, a court assembly whose bill is set at 0.03 per cent of the minimum wage shall be paid. Similarly, it is proposed that the judicial assembly be established in criminal proceedings, and it will be paid in the event of the court’s acquittal. The rate is offered in one size of the minimum wage. In addition, it is proposed to set a differentiated scale of the rate of the court’s fee, which is used for filing a claim for damages to the court. And the size of the court rate is directly dependent on the size of the lawsuit. In addition, a court assembly is being established to file claims to the courts of creditors for bankruptcy cases, as well as claims from creditors that apply for assets to the debtor after a notice of bankruptcy. In addition, it is proposed to change the distribution of court costs in administrative proceedings and to change the size of other court-martial rates, which are applied for the submission of separate positive applications and others provided for in procedural law. The adoption of this law will result in improvements in the legal order of the court. Please support the bill and accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u151	Thank you. Shall we discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u152	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u153	Besides Carmazin, who else insists? And Sanchenko. Please, Karmazin. Then there's Sanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the previous bill, despite what the Deputy Minister of Finance has told you, what it leads to and how dangerous it is, you voted. As far as this bill is concerned. Think about it. If you have a criminal case against you and you are going through a criminal case or an administrative offence, you will have to pay the court for it. That's right, in two words, all that's written in this law. In two words, it's not an intelligent phrase. This clearly contradicts article 130 of the Constitution, which imposes the obligation to provide for financing and to create adequate conditions for the functioning of the courts and the activities of judges, rather than on those responsible for the damage caused by the crime or the misdemeanour, they will still bear it. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion, wrote that the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations, to the first part of the first part of article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct, articles 1, 3 and 4, "The Judicial Assembly" were unacceptable. That's the word they found in the science department. And I want you to imagine. Don't God, don't put yourself in those people's shoes, and I want you to imagine it's another, another human tax. And it comes as in that fairy tale that Mrs. Xenya Lapin remembers very well, for the new year of the President, when he said that, on behalf of the President, more faithfully when he said that in order for us to take money from you, we have tax, everything else, and there's still the Supreme Council. Please reject this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u155	Saint Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u156	Sanchenko, BUT faction, Fatherskina. Well, without repeating my colleague, I would like to say that I support all the arguments they have set out, and what is stated in the observations or conclusions of the scientific and expert office, where it is written in white, that the law violates 130 articles of the Constitution. I'll only get one number. There is a 10-fold increase in court fees for divorce. The amount for many simple people in this case may simply be irresistible. Well, you know, I'd like to say about the trends that are in the country today. For example, what were the good intentions to increase the judicial assembly in the economic process? Today, the country has a competitive environment. There are bribe rates in the judiciary. Plus a court order. So this is the cost of the initiating structure in some economic disputes. The competitor today is a former law enforcement entity and is now specialized in political repression and in raids. And the third competing branch in this case was criminality, which once again raises its head in the country and which offers its services on a competitive basis for an extrajudicial solution to various types of economic disputes. That led to shooting today, and to a mask show, and so on, and so on. That is what such decisions have led to, but with regard to economic disputes. What is being proposed is, in fact, to deprive people of the opportunity to achieve any truth and access to justice when it comes to something that initiates a citizen. And when it comes to what the State is initiating, any criminal prosecution, any Code on Administrative Offences, in fact, rather than improving the system of fines, which has many misdemeanours, instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u157	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on payment to the court]] [[Registration number 9674]] Please vote. [[12:43:11]] For a hundred and Not supported. There's an offer to re-send the first reading. Please vote. [[12:43:35]] For 216 The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 167, BUT – did not vote, "Our Ukraine" – 1, the Communists – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, "Reforms" – 18, "Afterfractional" – 10. Dear colleagues, one more question, but we have a very burning question. Listen, please. You and I have passed a law requiring local self-government authorities to say that the deadline for issuing licences for 10 days cannot be achieved because they don't have a session for ten days. We've been writing you down for a month. But abuse began this month. It has a bearing on the session or has no relation to the session, but each of the local authorities says that I have not 10 days but a month. So I suggest that we take a quick look at Chechtov's bill to change this situation, and then we move on to the Vulnerable. [[9781]] I'm proposing a reduced procedure. It's not serious. The question is serious, but it's short. [[12:45:10]] For 216 It's the same program.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u158	Adam Ivanovich was absolutely right to say the point. We had adopted a rule from the good intentions of meeting the regional councils, the city councils, that, within 30 days, since the session was not meeting weekly, a permit decision could be taken at the sessions. But this umbrella wasn't the kind of person that administrations were able to cover up with this 30-day elevator in order to reduce time, of course, to provoke bribes, and so on. Therefore, in order to eliminate the corruption component, we have made it very clear in this amendment that only those decisions that require consideration at the sessions are subject to the thirty-day rule of authorization. Thus, we remove from this corrupt umbrella the remaining links of the administrative authority. Please vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u160	I see. Make sure there's no abuse. I'm voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Act amending article 4-1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. [[on decisions taken by the representative bodies of local self-government]] [[Registration number 9781]] Please vote. [[12:47:03]] For 251 Thank you, the law has been passed. I will explain again, including to entrepreneurs, that those who drive you for a month's nose, if this has nothing to do with the decision of the session, should resolve this issue within 10 days. Yes, please sign up for "Victory." Yes, it takes an hour to 13.47. Please, Vasil Kiselov. Get ready. The sand is passed on, Popescu. Get ready, Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u161	Masterful colleagues! During the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 26 January, the resolution "Functioning of Democratic Institutions in Ukraine" was adopted, setting out recommendations for Ukraine. [[1862]] For example, in paragraph 15 of the resolution, the Central Electoral Commission recommends the following. When it determines the limits of the constituencies for the 2012 parliamentary elections, it will include in the same constituency a group of national minorities that form a compact residence in certain areas. I would like to point out that when we move to a mixed system of parliamentary elections in 1998, taking into account the standards of the Council of Europe and the need for representation in Parliament of the interests of national minorities who live compactly in different regions of Ukraine, this standard has already worked. Thus, article 7, paragraph 2, of the Law of 24.09.1997 provides that the number 541/97-XB was that areas where individual national minorities live compactly should not go beyond one constituency. I would also like to point out that, in accordance with article 22, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, in adopting new laws or amending existing laws, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed. In view of the above, I refer to the Central Electoral Commission to take into account the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and to the establishment of one-maned constituencies, it is necessary to take into account the compactness of the residence of national municipalities and to include the territorial and administrative unit of the compact residence of national minorities in the same constituency. I draw attention to the need to apply this approach to the formation of constituencies in places of compact residence of Hungarians and Romanians in Zakarpatja, the Romanian population in the region of Cherniewec, Bulgaria, etc. And responding, in particular, to the appeal of the collective members of the Interregional Union of the "Romanian Community of Ukraine" and taking into account the inseparable compactness of the Romanian population in the Cherniv region, I also draw attention to the need for the CBC to be included in the same constituency of the region of Cherniv, the whole area of the traditional population of the Romanian population, namely: the Hertzian, Glucian and Novoselian regions, as well as all Romania's populated areas of the Strožinetsky region, which, inter alia, belong to the Redwood Village Council and the Budenecko, the Upper St. Petersburg, the Jezhivsky, Ropčansky, Chrish and the Great Village Councils, which are directly involved with the Glubecko, the Lower Petrovsky, the Lower Petrovsky, the Rupčany, the Chrish and the Great Village Councils, which are part of which are directly involved in the period of the year 2002 and the period of the period. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Central Electoral Commission, to the Montenegrin District Council, to the Montenegrin District Administration and to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u162	Please give appropriate address to the Popescu People's Deputy as a matter of law. National MP Sergei Mishchenko gives the floor to the National Deputy Vasile Drevlán, "BUT is the Fatherland". He'll be followed by Dmitri Schlemko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u163	Vasile Derevljany, Faction "BUT" is "The Fatherland." Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! The population of Ternopilska is very concerned about the bill submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the transfer of cultural objects to religious organizations. [[Registration number 9690]] [[of January 12, 2012]] According to the Final Provisions of this bill, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is proposed in a three-month period to decide, in accordance with the law, on the transfer of objects located in the Kremenac district of the Saint-Bojojavlen Women's Monastery of the Ternopils diocese, Pochayiv Saint-Uspenske Lavra, Sveto-Uspenske Kyevo-Pechersky Lavra of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate without the right to alienate and change the assignment of transferred objects. Such gestures by the majority in the Supreme Council well illustrate the religious preferences of the powerful top and subvert the idea of creating the only local Ukrainian Church that would unite the state. Once again, our position is clear, Ukrainian shrines should belong to the Ukrainian people. We believe that the bill is a direct quest at the spiritual sanctuary of the Ukrainian nation, the continuation of a total attack on Ukrainian Orthodoxy, and the attempts to ruse the Ukrainian people with the help of the Moscow Church. I would like to remind you that on May 29, 2001, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduced a collection of cultural heritage monuments in the cities of Kremenci and Beginning to the knowledge of Kremenicko, the Pochaev State Historical Architectural Reserve. Special mention should be made of the fact that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality and the faction "BUT – "Fatherhood" in the Supreme Council are active advocates of the principle of equality of all churches in the country. In our view, the State must implement a very balanced policy in a sensitive sphere, such as interfaith relations, so as not to disrupt a subtle interfaith. Once again, I would like to emphasize from this rostrum that the Pocavian laurel since its founding has been the spiritual center of the Ukrainian nation. And I call for urgent measures to prevent the privatization of Ukrainian shrines: the Kiev-Pecher Lavra and the Pochai Lavra. In view of the above, we demand that the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 17 July 2003 on the removal of laurel from the Kremenac-Pochai State Architectural Reserve and transfer Pochai's Lavra to this Reserve. The other one. Take decisive measures to prevent the proposed draft Ukrainian Law No. 9690. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u164	I'd like to introduce you to Dmitri Schlemck, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Vladimir Kaplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u165	Respectable compatriots! The Group of People's Deputies of the Faction "BUT" – "The Father of the Father", such as Drevljenim, Schlemk, Prokopczuk, Tomenk, Kožemyakin and others, was introduced on 11 January this year by the draft Ordinance on the Provision of Emergency Medical Care for Yulia Timoshenko with the involvement of foreign professionals. The need to make such a decision is due to the fact that Julia Volodymyrina’s health deteriorates every day, and on January 6, she even lost consciousness after taking the unknown drugs given to her by the Kachanov Colony. However, this decree was not even brought to Parliament’s attention, forming an order of the day. Did the Party of Regions and its satellites do the right thing? In response to the quote, "Ukraine will be grateful for helping foreign doctors treat Julia Timoshenko." Who do you think this quote belongs to? My name is President Yanukovic. It said February 4th at a press conference in Munich after he spoke to US Secretary of State Gilary Clinton. "We do not deny, please, we will be grateful," the President said. He is also told by the Attorney General of Ukraine. Its statement states: "In response to calls by the ambassadors of the European Union, the United States and international medical organizations, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, within its competence, is ready to facilitate the work of the Joint Medical Group to carry out an independent survey of Timoshenko." And another quote. "To carry out the mission of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, within its competence, is prepared to facilitate the work of the Joint Medical Group, with the participation of Ukrainian and international experts, to conduct both the examinations and the treatment of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna, if necessary." What further arguments are needed to consider and vote in the Supreme Council? Moreover, knowing the real health situation of Julia Timoshenko rather than the false public information of society by the public services, including the Ministry of Health, the governments of Canada, Germany, and representatives of the Red Cross Society have shown a desire to set up a commission to carry out a medical examination of Julius Volodymyrna. As stated by U.S. Attorney-General Victor Pshonka, ex-Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, doctors have looked at the figures 203 times, including 46 times – an independent commission. I would like to ask him and all the national deputies: Why does Timoshenko’s health deteriorate to a critical state when he is no longer able to get up, he loses consciousness? Is this the level of those doctors who were sent to prison? Is this the special method of President Yanukovic to destroy the leader of the opposition, Yulia Timoshenko? So is the parliamentary majority ready to give a fair answer to the question? We'll live to see.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u166	I'd like to introduce you to Vladimir Kaplan. Orestes Mutz will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u167	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, today I would like to draw your attention to the gruesome problem in the Mikolai district, which has taken place around the Mikolaiian Clay Farm, where the slums in early February have been subject to a further discharge into the atmosphere of the poisonous killer red dust. In 2011, the situation was similar. We raised this problem with the National MP Zadirk and gave her an announcement. Then we, the people's deputies and also the victims of all of Ukraine's citizens, assured us that the situation was under control and that the problem had been removed. To illustrate, even a criminal case has been committed and a fine has been collected from the factory in such a size that it is even funny to say that these are today two 80 - dollar bracelets per person. God is with her, with this compensation. Indignant is the fact that today we are forced to find out that nothing has changed and that the plant is working successfully and continues to kill all living within a radius of five kilometers, including not only vegetation but also humans. This is confirmed by the new dust storm, which affected the village of Luparevo and the Dnipro-Buzki liman, whose width in the city of disaster is three kilometers, and two of them are littered with straw dust. By the looks of it, the Mikolai Agricultural Plant is the structural unit of the Russian company Rusal, the world leader in aluminum production. The production capacity of the Mikolai Agricultural Plant is 1.6 million tons of clay per year, and the cost of one ton of clay is about $300. So it can be said with conviction that the money that needs to be spent on environmental security is money that needs to be set aside to take away this shameful practice of citizens of Ukraine, but there is no response, and there is no desire to do so. Corruption is another factor that prevents the problem from being solved. Yes, it is corruption in the control and penal authorities that the area and the unwillingness to bring the guilty to justice, because it is easier and cheaper to give perhaps bribes and sometimes to others than to spend money on removing the design flaws and taking social responsibility to the affected region. Why do I say that? But because I personally resent the position of officials of any rank if it is not aimed at protecting the interests of our citizens. So I have a perfectly legitimate question: Who will be responsible for this? We believe that we need to respond to this situation immediately and use all the means and means of response or force the management of Rusal to provide or compensate for the damage and to take this situation away as environmentally hazardous. Please consider this statement as my request, together with the National Deputy Zadirko, to the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u168	Please make an appropriate request as a parliamentary request. I'd like to invite Oreste Maca, the faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Yuri Hanushtak of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u169	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. Dear colleagues! Earthlings! The Ternopil region that I represent in Parliament has always been a barometer of democracy not only for Ukraine but also for Western countries. My native Ternopilska has made a significant contribution to the restoration of the modern Ukrainian state. It is worth mentioning that in the Ternopil region, the percentage of those who voted in favour of independence in the first December referendum was the highest in all regions of Ukraine. Ternopilska is an agricultural land. His inhabitants are sincere and hardworking people. They work hard with their hands cut off from the ground and earn a piece of bread in the sweat of their foreheads. But the confidence of my countrymen in beautiful slogans has led us to have more and more deadlocks in our power. Their principle is to take advantage of trust, to gain and to forget what is promised. Whom we just didn't have from this board of deputies: businessmen, poets, and even the first president, who kept saying he was ours. Today, before the start of the parliamentary electoral campaign, half a year later, a fierce battle for districts among potential paratroopers has begun in the area. Now my countrymen will try to learn how to live properly, even the former U.S.S. generals. To help people not repeat the mistakes of the past, such a mission takes on the representation of Ternopolska, which I have the honour to lead. Its goal is to bring together all the patriots of our country who are scattered across and outside political structures, to involve residents and people from Ternopilland to rebuild and rebuild it. To that end, we use rich historical experience. Our countrymen have successfully introduced an economic slogan in the past: "Let's do it our way." Today is the time to apply this slogan in politics. There are many outstanding individuals among those coming out of Ternopolska. It is best to care for the development of the land, to increase the well - being of its inhabitants, to care for their children, to care for their parents, to care for the graves of their families, and to know the problems of the land, and to understand how to deal with them. Respectful countrymen, remember, have done nothing and will not do anything for our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u170	I'd like to invite Yuri Hanushtzak, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u171	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen, one of the global challenges facing the world today is the financial crisis of nations. This is most evident in Greece, although other countries in Europe suffer from overly populist policies of their governments in previous years. The source of these crises is a steady budget deficit and an increasing public debt. Lands were borrowed as wastefuls living one day without thinking about future generations. At the same time, the media mostly mention the size of the debt and the size of the deficit, although the main cause of the financial crisis is the inability to handle the debt. The government’s budget is burdened by the fact that interest on loans is insurmountable, practically squeezing it as a cancerous tumor. Yes, the cost of servicing Greece's government debt has passed over a quarter of the budget. In order to stop their growth, the government has taken unprecedented economic measures by adopting a 2012 budget with a surplus of 3 and a half percent, which has not yet helped stabilize the situation. The service of debt in terms of the body of the budget and GDP continues to increase. Ukraine is rapidly approaching a defolt limit. Debt service costs are rising in arithmetical progress. If they amounted to 3.3 billion in 2007, in 2008 to 3.8 in 2009 to 9.1 in 2010 to 15.5, in 2011 to 23 and in 2012 to over 30 billion. This is more than the cost of the state budget for education and medicine combined. The trend in debt servicing in terms of GDP is threatening. So if in 2008 they were 0.6 percent, in 2012 they were 2 percent. We take too many expensive loans. This is a sign of mistrust on the part of creditors. In the economic sector, we don't have the right to own property. As a result, investments in Ukraine do not go. Large infrastructure projects, such as the modernization of the gas transport network, cannot be financed by European banks either, as the EU does not guarantee them in the light of human rights violations and the geopolitical uncertainty of Ukraine. Internal loans are also very expensive because of inflationary expectations, since Nazbank does not guarantee the stability of the bracelet because of the deep hidden budget deficit. What do you want to do? The countries of Europe have developed quite hard measures to narrow debt growth, deficit reduction, and debt servicing. Similar measures must be taken in Ukraine. First of all, to establish that the debt is owed exclusively to investment projects that are either self-sustaining or increase the GDP of countries that allow additional debt repayments to be received. It's the simple logic of an entrepreneur who'll never take debt to eat. Next step: stabilizing the level of debt service at 10 percent of the expenditure of the general budget. These rules are not new. They have been used for more than 10 years for local budgets and are quite effective. It is time, at last, for the state to learn local self - control, how to live modestly, without waste. Because it's just local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u172	Thank you. I'd like to invite Vladimir Bondarenko, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Nicholas Romanyuk, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u173	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. Dear friends! When we are in this room, do we sometimes not reflect on what we have become in recent years? I remember the first summons when there was a discussion in this room, sometimes there was even a massacre in the area of the rostrum, but there were decisions that were more or less in the interest of the state. Today, such as Solomonine, who became the minister of defense, and some other government officials who come here just to beat up the national MPs, well, using their past experience of market bullies. They're running the state today, and there's no solution or solution in the room. So I would like to make a few suggestions for changes to the Rules. First. On the basis of the trend that today the leadership of the Supreme Council in person and the Head of the Supreme Council and the First Deputy lead this line, laws do not discuss, adopt, even without committee discussion, in order to avoid any problems. So in the same way, Livela has gone through, four billion have been stolen from the government budget of possible revenue. Thus today, renewable sources of electricity have enabled everyone to produce one small source 3 kilowatts and not pay taxes from all their activities and so on. Why do you have to work out some of the details here and so forth? We could cut our costs by replacing one man who acts as a light in this room with a mechanical device similar to that member of the Party of the Regions who waves his hands. You replace it and it'll be cheaper. The brighter signs are given to be visible to those who sit on the corners and count cash in the bags. Now it's about the cash. Also today, the criminal situation in the country is terrible. But those who give money are the very ones who come out of the environments that once took that money. So I would like to propose that these cards that they have in their hands, credit cards, then any vote would take off a certain amount for their benefit. Voting in favour, for example, is the full amount, "against" is one vote written down from the past, one amount if "restraint" is needed. So it's very important that our carcasses that are working on this scheme today don't risk their lives, don't carry $200, 300,000 cash, and get a census right away. Well, for individual merits it might be cash, because they're naked and barefoot, as one said yesterday, collected $450,000 from their salaries, obviously they're getting their salary in dollars and giving it to one of our colleagues. So these are the kind of proposals that should be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u174	I'd like to invite Mikola Romanyuk, the faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u175	Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The cold winter proved to be a test for Ukrainian communists. On another occasion, we have found that housing and utilities require urgent reform, which cannot be done without serious investment in this sector. For politicians, regardless of the camp to which they belong, this problem must be a priority, since it is the work of the municipal services that makes our citizens feel comfortable or comfortable in their homes, in the streets, in public transport, and sometimes, in emergency situations, their lives also depend. However, I am not going to talk now about the urgent need to adopt a series of legislative and regulatory acts that would help attract investment and improve the efficiency of housing and utilities. I want to turn your weight into a small nuance, which, whether because of employment or not, our government officials do not accidentally notice, but it does not need to be invested in government funds, but it does enable Ukrainian families to save small amounts. Another 20 years ago, the heating standard was 22 degrees Fahrenheit [22 ° C] of heat, which is the most conducive to the human body. This is true in many countries in Europe. But we in Ukraine, somehow, according to the state building standards adopted in 2005, during the heating season, the air temperature in housing should not be below 20 degrees Fahrenheit [20 ° C]. A lower temperature is allowed only in support rooms. In particular, in my hometown of Cherniv, the local utility Černivci teplocomunnergo in its agreements with consumers has only undertaken to provide their services according to the normative quantitative and qualitative indicators, without specifying what they are actually talking about. The minimum allowable temperature below which the calculation of the payment for the outstanding heat is to begin is generally considered by the Montenegrins to be positive 18 degrees Fahrenheit [18 ° C]. This provides room for manipulation, for a temperature reduction of only one degree saves a small amount of gas and predicts a 5 percent reduction in pay. Convinced that only units of Ukrainians are accusing the greenhouses of their actions, they are required to be recalculated for the added degrees of heat. Within the country, it pours out millions of bracelets, which, through such unscrupulous manipulations, come from consumers into the pockets of greenhouses. So I think the situation should be rectified by the Ministry of Regional Development. In order to generate tariffs for thermal energy, its production, transportation and supply, central heating services, and hot ones. Perhaps it is worth reviewing this position in the country’s established building standards and at least at the temperature of housing to bring Ukrainian families closer to European standards. I urge my fellow members of the People's Deputies to take an active part in the discussion of the draft Decree. Ukraine’s change in the order in which tariffs are established for heat energy, its production, transportation, and the provision of central heating and hot water. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u176	I'd like to invite Andrew Pavlovsky, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Eugene Chago.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u177	Andrew Pavlovski, "The House of Julius Timoshenko is the Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! In February, the criminal dictatorship of Yanukovic has been fulfilled for two years. During this period, poverty has only increased. And I want to remind you, remember, and the first Order of Yanukovich was about overcoming poverty. As a result, the poor in our country have become 2 percent. And according to the United Nations in Ukraine, almost 80 percent of the population is poor. The gap between the wealthiest and the poorest reaches 40 times is a critical limit, but they don't have enough. They're planning to adopt bills to take over the land, the remainder of the strategic state property, the Cruise Station, the gas transport system. Clearly, all of this is causing resentment among people. And sooner or later, this will lead to mass protests. So Janukovic, without even hoping for his tribe of Yenokieva and Makiyevka, is assigning to this area a set of sunsets that were not yet a few years ago Ukrainian citizens, and I mean that the key positions of the head of the BSS are assigned by the host of Kalinin, who worked in the FSB of the neighbouring State, and the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Solomatin, who was a citizen of Kazakhstan, lived in Moscow, and he is probably also an agent of foreign intelligence. After that, what independence can we talk about in Ukraine? Even Russians born in Ukraine do not trust this occupying authority. At the same time, I would like to point out that that's why they threw the opposition leaders behind bars: Julius Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, Yvashchenka and try to destroy them slowly, to be imprisoned. It's because they're the personal phobias of Yanukovich, who's just afraid of this little, delicate woman who can stand for Ukraine. And we want to say that God does not give anything to happen to Julius Timoshenko, to her health, for this will be the responsibility of Janukovich himself, because he personally is the contracting party for these false torture and slow killings of the leaders of the opposition. Let him hear, Janukovic, he will answer to the people of Ukraine and will not hide himself in Medjugorje. Let him remember the fate of dictators — Mubarak and Gaddafi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u178	Before you know it, I'd like to invite Eugene Chago, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." He will be followed by Vladimir Danilenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u179	Eugene Chago, "BUT is the Fatherland" faction. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! As a national deputy, I have recently received many appeals from my constituents from Dniprojnski about the quality of the gas that comes into the apartments and houses. Among them are dozens of signatures and complaints from individual citizens, where it has been emphasized that gas prices are rising and its quality is lower than that of several years ago. My natives, who live in the construction site, claim that this year’s gas produces a completely incomprehensible color, and within a few months of the start of the heating season, boilers and gas columns have covered themselves with a thick layer of soot. The quality and the natural gas deteriorated. The voters say that today, gas from balloons under the same conditions of use will burn much faster than it has been in recent years. I quote one of the words: "Fire burns, counter spins like crazy, wipes money out of your pocket, and instead of the desired heat, boils on pots and soot on your cauldron." I analyzed the situation. It turns out it's not just my native Dniproperty. Similar complaints about gas quality have already appeared in the press in various regions of Ukraine. Independent research has shown that the quality of the natural gas is quite often not in line with the standards stated. Experts have found an excess of various ingredients, and methane levels have been significantly reduced, sometimes up to 10 percent. Imagine, gentlemen, how much millions of dollars can gas managers put in their pockets because of the deterioration in quality. The question is, Where do experts look to exercise control in this area? The answer is simple: They are themselves dependent on those who sit and feed on a gas pipe, so they claim that the quality of the gas meets the requirements of the guest. And I'm going to ask you again, what is it that hundreds of my constituents have become color-blind and don't understand the colors on the gas boilers and so on? In my opinion, this situation will continue as long as the gas supply and quality control are carried out by the same subject. Therefore, I ask you to consider my statement as a question of the MP to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Security Service. And last time. Today, authorities have again begun to think of the need to raise the price of gas for the population. Gentlemen, what a promotion this could be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u180	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u181	Gentlemen, what kind of promotion might this be if you are unable to control quality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u182	Please prepare an appropriate parliamentary address, as discussed by Eugene Chago. I invite Vladimir Danilenko, a faction of Communists. He will be followed by Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u183	Vladimir Danilenko, Company, Summary. Dear Chairman, distinguished voters! On January 26th of this year, I visited the S.H.I.E.L.D. "The Star" is the oldest enterprise in the defence and industrial complex of Ukraine, created on May 21, 1739, which began the creation of the town of Šostka, its industrial development and social infrastructure. The soldiers of Suvorov, the Napoleonic army of Kutuzov, were shelled with shells of the sixth dust. Bombs, pods, and light flares from the Six were supplied to the Russian army in World War I. Hitler’s troops were also convinced of the goodness of these supplies. About 8,000 people worked for the Soviet Union. At this stage, a little more than one thousand people are employed at the company, less than before. Now the company is in a crisis situation and without additional help, the state is just going to go bankrupt. It is heavily indebted to government funds, with a total of nearly 150 million dollars, 80 million of them to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. In view of the outstanding debt and the absence of contributions to the enterprise, its employees are unable to obtain pension insurance. Think about it, the employees of the company received a salary of only twice last year, and you can imagine a hundred dollars each. Tell me, how can you live on two hundred dollars a year? Since the state ignores the listed enterprise, it loses its resources. Thus, the Shaostin Interstate Prosecutor’s Office has been charged with a criminal case involving the illegal alienation of the property of the enterprise. Its total area is nearly 754 hectares. We need to understand that if we continue to ignore such strategic enterprises, in ten years, Ukraine will live only on IMF loans and taxes from citizens. This will result in the loss of all constitutional rights of citizens. So in view of the above, I'm just calling once again at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, at the Ucroborprom State Concert, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Industry, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise, requiring the development of appropriate normative acts to restore the proper work of the SOSTK and write off the debt owed to the Pension Fund to grant citizens the right to receive a well-deserved pension. From the protocols, we need to move on to action. So, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you to consider my speech as a parliamentary request before these offices.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u184	Please provide appropriate parliamentary requests, as announced by the national MP, Danilenko. I invite Vladimir Leschenko, a faction of Communists, to speak with Jaroslav Kendzer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u185	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Last week, as part of my delegation's activities, I met with a professional asset in the Chernigiv region. I want to say that the leaders of the regional federation and the heads of the industry are well placed to carry out their functions to protect the interests of hired workers. They are making some effort in this direction. But on the other hand, there's a whole series of obstacles. It is well - known that employees of businesses and industries are united in professional associations with one goal: to defend their legitimate rights and interests in relationships, as is now said to be fashionably, with employers. During Soviet times, they performed this function at a rather high level. In today's conditions, when Ukraine owns a large capital, it is only interested in part of the so-called social partnership, in paws, that is, if they contribute to the exploitation of workers and the increase in profits. Thus, modern - day professional organizations are in most cases humiliated, under five administrations, businesses, institutions, and organizations. If a professor or the entire organization silently accepts the abuse of workers, such an administrative profession is liked and supported. If he suddenly starts his small work to protect members of the trade union, the funds coming to the trade committee are blocked, the activists are threatened with dismissal, or even dismissal. The Constitution of Ukraine, as well as the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activity, is not an order to the capitalists because they ignore current legislation. Here would be the role of the state administration of the entire presidential vertical and government structures, the law enforcement bodies, one of whose functions is to control the implementation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. But wherever they are, they quietly observe violations of existing legislation and do not take any action. No wonder the Montenegrin District Attorney's Office opened a procedure last October for the selection of a professional organization in the Federation in the area of administrative premises and the building of a teaching and medical centre. She appealed to the court in the area with extortion claims in favour of the State Property Fund from the so-called "foreign, illegal property". [[in quotes]] That's interesting. Both premises built solely on behalf of the company’s contributions, never related to the union’s general property, no one, no federation has been transferred and have been in its possession for more than 50 years. The Communists believe that our duty, the national deputies of Ukraine, is to protect trade unions from such incursions and that members of the trade unions are to avoid the adoption of employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u186	I'd like to invite Jaroslav Kendzior. He will be followed by Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u187	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. I'm giving 30 seconds of my time to a colleague of Omelchenka's. Dear colleagues! When you analyze the two years of the modern - day power of the Yanukovich team, the impression is that a number of modern conquistadors have slipped into our land. Two years of relentless destruction of everything that means Ukraine: language, history, culture, spirituality. It seems that these modern conquistadores have been designed solely during their stay in power to destroy as much as possible anything that smells like Ukraine. Let us examine only the final assignments, which are also very good at testifying to what I am saying. We've already talked about Kalinin's head of the U.S.S.A., the Defense Minister -- that's a particularly powerful example. This skeleton, this half-literate person, and I have to say that the whole team or most of this team is people who are illiterate, not intellectual, people who are far away from all spirituality, and the main thing is to destroy, steal, make some sort of pact to Ukraine. So, this church, today's Secretary of Defense, what will he be like, how will he defend the Ukrainian state? Here in the hall, you know, there's a joke among fellow MPs that if there's not enough tanks, he'll take the taboos or chairs he used here in the lobby as a new weapon. So it's useless to address the President and remind him of what kind of state the President is. It's all completely ineffective. I think that society, and even those regions that were once fundamental to today's team, are already, by biting elbows, ready for active action. And I think that these active actions to move this team will be soon. Thank you. Please tell Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u188	30 seconds, please, Gregory Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u189	Thank you, dear friend Jaroslav. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, today, on Friday, the day of the announcement of questions. I registered the request to the Attorney General and the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine in the order established by law. However, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litwin, read his name, was afraid to announce it, and on my request, repeatedly, he said, "You're setting me up, I'd better send him to the regulatory committee." I will only read the title of this question and ask the presiding officer to send it to the appropriate addressees. Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The MP's request for a criminal offence, arrest and invocation of the responsibility of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin of the Russian Federation for causing serious harm to Ukraine's economic and national security, which has created a real threat to Ukraine's sovereignty, and as an accomplice to the crime condemned by Julia Timoshenko. I'll tell you what. A similar content of the parliamentary address is addressed to the President of Ukraine as a guarantor of compliance with the Constitution. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to make that request. And please, Your Honor Chairman, here are two examples of this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u190	I'd like to invite Vladimir Yavorowski, the "BOUT" faction, "The Fatherland." It will be followed by Anatoly Horbatuk, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u191	Dear voters! I'm addressing you because there's almost an empty hall in the Supreme Council. Before what my committee colleague Jaroslav Kendiser said, I just want to add that there was a resolution on the Internet that Solomon had made, in a single word, that he had made a few mistakes. And he wrote, "Agreed." And I just want to remind you that he was in the past calling the first deputy, between us just so that it doesn't go anywhere, the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education! You can imagine the level of this command that's here. But I went out to the rostrum for another. As a national MP, I have the right to offer to our electorate my vision of the situation when, in the highest political spheres, not just a theatrical firecracker exploded, but a cumulative missile of such a powerful force that I think it will start in half-Europe. I'm talking about a scandal with corruption and terrible bribes among the carcasses. I thought about this and I'm bringing it to our voters. If there's one person among these traitors, perverts, perverts, whatever you want to call them, they've already been invented by humanity. If there was one of them, one of them, who had a brilliant reaction and got out, I think he's the only one who didn't take the money. Or perhaps if something was given, very little, and he found out about the real price. Do you understand? It's really scary. Society! But it seems that on this scandal today, all the law enforcement agencies would have to throw themselves out -- to clear it all up right away. Can you imagine what's going on in Parliament?Oh, my God! The fact that one of us is already laughing is that we have one person pressing ten buttons that we haven't gone anywhere yet. And it turns out that there's just a fair, just a fair, where you buy souls, where you buy souls. A few words I'd like to say about Roman Zabzaluk, whom they're talking about here. I can actually imagine these people who fell off Zabzaluk: $100,000 fell off. So, you know, they took it and they went off. Because of this, if you have to return, you have to pay only 100,000, and 350 for the election campaign or for the kindergarten, you have to pay it. I want the voters to know that we didn't know anything about Roman, but imagine where he went, knowing that he had gone, because it was a closed operation, and no one said a bad word about Roman. I was literally jerked off by the press and they said, "What? I said, I don't know, I can't figure it out. It's also a sign of the moral quality of the Timoshenko Yulia Block. And I'm done. My last thesis. People, remember the united Social Democrats, who could have been, what they ended up with. Their phones were recently turned off for nonpayment. You're going to end up in the same region. And I'm waiting for Chechetov to raise not one hand, but raise two. That's how it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u192	I'd like to invite Anatoly Gorbathuk, the faction of the Party of the Regions. He will be followed by Vladimir Moses, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u193	Honorable fellows, venerable bullies! To me as Ukraine’s national deputy, 6.02. 12 asked the directors of the Lutsky district’s public education schools to participate in the council of the district’s educators on child - feeding organizations. There was a tense situation in the area in connection with the fact that Mikola Tarasenka, a member of the Lutsky District Council of the Party of Education, had been prosecuted. The case was violated by the new attorney for the Volin district of Andrew Parak. Enlighteners of the region view Tarasenko Mikolaiovich as an honest and decent person who, over the years, has proven herself to be the best. In 2008-2010, the education department carried out a letter from the district treasury, which was distributed at one of the district councils through the delegation of the district's educational institutions the right to purchase their own food products. This allowed quality, speed, and cost to maintain children’s nutrition. Neither in 2008, 2009, 2010 have there been any infringements by the CPR. Nor did the leaders of the Lutsky region who saw and knew how it was organized by the children’s nutrition education department. The same situation arose in many areas of the area where school principals and school directors are responsible for violations of the nutrition organization. School managers guarantee that the funds allocated to the food care organization came to the children for their appointment. Costs, neither the head of the education department nor the school’s principals owned or used them for their assignment. Please consider the situation. In fact, take steps to stop daily checks on schools, to call school directors to the prosecutor’s office, to intimidate them, which last more than half a year, to discredit the authorities and to create nervousness and tension in the district’s educational field, which can lead to some social upheavals or protests. My statement is considered a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Tobacco, Head of the Volin Region. It was signed by 12 members of the Supreme Council of the Party of the Regions. I demand, and I believe we need, the people's deputies, to adopt the Criminal Procedure Code as soon as possible. Because I see how young zealous prosecutors in today's legislation can make corrupters and bribes to many deserving people in the area of education in the area. I'm talking to district officials, not being so insolent at district councils on education, not blaming them for nothing, but rather helping the education sector in the food organization. And the people who are acting today from the Party of Regions and working in power, I'll tell you that you're acting like those movie heroes in a series of movies: changing the hat because the position is changing, the power is changing. I think it's pretty soon for people like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u194	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u195	I think we'll soon get rid of such people in power. And people like Tarasenko, we support and support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u196	Please make an appropriate parliamentary appeal to prepare for the presentation of the national deputy of the coat of arms. I invite Vladimir Moisik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". He will be followed by Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u197	Vladimir Moisik Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a draft of Ukraine's new Criminal Procedure Code with the votes of the Party of Regions and Parliamentary Carcases. The opposition did not vote in favour of this code. What, though, is the view of the opposition to the updating and radical updating of criminal and procedural legislation? Of course, we have advocated and advocated that a code that is more than 50 years old should be adapted to today’s reality. And in support of this, out of dozens of drafts of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, it's the opposition factions. Why did the opposition not vote in favour of President Yanukovic's draft Criminal Procedure Code? The code creates a legislative basis for dictatorship. And I stress, no matter who dictates, whether today Yanukovitch is over the opposition, or tomorrow's new authority over those who are in power today. This should not be the case in the country, the codex should be created for many years and for the entire Ukrainian society. Where do we see the threat of dictatorship, respected Ukrainians, respected voters? Incredibly increasing the role of the prosecutor in criminal proceedings. I will only add that the Constitution has been obliged by the Ukrainian State to remove the investigation apparatus from the prosecutor’s office for 16 years. Instead, for another five years, they are kept in the public prosecutor’s system, the investigators, and the prosecutors themselves, who supervise the investigation in other institutions and other institutions, are actually given the rights of investigators. The Council of Europe also points out that the supervision of the enforcement of the law on investigation and participation in the investigation is incompatible with the prosecutor and excludes him from supporting the State’s charge. Strengthening the role of the Ukrainian Security Service is ineligible for such authorities. It is handed over to 76 crime squads plus all the crimes of civil servants in the first and third categories, all the crimes of law enforcement, all the crimes of judges. So it's going to be this special presence of NCDs near the authorities. The declared rivalry of the criminal process, but it's not really provided in the code. There are other conceptual flaws to this project. First of all, out of tens or two dozen positions, the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine conflict. However, I would like to focus more on what the project is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u198	Finish up, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u199	All cases are scheduled to be referred to the courts of district and city courts. This is unacceptable, and society would not want Judge Kiriev to judge Prime Minister Timoshenko, with the questionable reputation of Judge Vuk, to judge the patriot, Minister Lucenk, and so on. Finally, I would like to declare total destruction by the project of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. No authority is given by the highest judicial authority for this project. What is more, it also deprives itself of the minor powers it has enjoyed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u200	Thank you. I'd like to invite Peter Cybenk, a faction of Communists. Sergey Hrapov will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u201	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Respectable citizens of Ukraine, venerable veterans! I would like to introduce you to a number of veteran organizations, and these 12 organizations, which have all-U.S. status, by addressing them to the first persons of the state, namely: the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thus: "Dear leaders of the state, on behalf of the multimillion-dollar and most disadvantaged part of the citizens of Ukraine, namely, veterans of various categories, the work, and the blood of which we have created, recovered and rebuilt everything on this earth, express our anger and resentment with the disgusting and highly cynical fact that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, under the pressure of the leadership of the State, has adopted two sad, shameful, anti-veteran decisions from December 26, 2011 and January 25, 2012, which has substantially narrowed the legislative framework for the social protection of veterans. In such a cynical way, one of the most perfect legislative bases in the social protection of veteranism in the post-Radians space has actually been destroyed. Veterans, and above all his most respected part, were war veterans, disabled people, wounded in a deep, uninhabitable way, not by enemies, but by the authorities of their own country. By this decision, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has in fact destroyed one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution — the distribution of power to the legislative, executive and court. Article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which prohibits the narrowing of existing rights and freedoms in Ukraine, is trampled. The particular tenacity of the decisions taken is that the same Constitutional Court twice, I emphasize, has made the exact opposite decisions on the same issue twice. By this decision, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine finally disgraced itself in the eyes of the average Ukrainian citizens. Millions of Ukrainian veterans have lost their historical perspective and their false hope that in the coming years they will have a real chance at a decent life that they have earned with their many years of winning work. Similar things cannot happen in a democratic, social, legal state declared by Ukraine article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of the above, we appeal to you, honourable leaders of the state, and first to the President of Ukraine, the guarantor of the Constitution, Viktore Fedorovich Janukovic, with the call for the initiator to break this shameful anti-veteran decision, which has fallen upon the hearts of the elderly." I'm asking for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u202	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u203	"Stop this oblivion, return hope to the veteran! There is still time and opportunity for this! Hoping to be heard by the leaders of veteran organizations." Here are the signatures of 12 leaders of veteran organizations, and the total number of these veteran organizations is 11 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u204	I'd like to invite Sergey Chrapov, a faction of Communists. And he'll finish the hour of the "Virgin" John Stoyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u205	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! With the global economic crisis on our territory, more and more rogues have emerged who have been profiting from the unfortunate Ukrainians, who have been receiving capitalist charms for the past 20 years. Commercial banks are particularly criminalized by the deception of ordinary citizens. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians fell into the cabal, took consumer credits, and many lost their property as a result of the activities of bankers. But these are private banks. In Dnepropetrovsk, however, there was an egregious case of fraud in the State of Sberbank, and more specifically in its 199th ward. The residents of the ANDI Area were deprived of pensions and deposits at one time. In early January, people who had come to Sberbank for their pension were shocked. In turn, the office began with the road, and people pushed, shouted, and cried. The new cashiers explained: there is no money, and all the questions are in the central office. Why? How? Eyewitnesses claim that they saw with their own eyes a militia unit that pulled the manager and two cashiers out of the office in handcuffs. In the central left-hand office of Sberbank, located in Transnistria, they explained that the management of the 199th office had long stolen deposits from the accounts. In recent times, even a month’s pension has been cut short, and it has been signed up and received by itself. Sbergbank’s unconscionable workers stole the crumbs that our pensioners brought to poverty had on a black day. Do these villains have a conscience? The question is rhetorical. We are Communists in this situation. Despite the optimistic responses from Sberbank's central office to investor referrals, bankers don't believe it. They understand which State, which banks, too. Understanding is good, just in a bank response, there is no reference to who will be, what will be with the stolen deposits. And that's the question that the investors are most concerned about. Why does the bank’s management keep the problem quiet? Why isn't she having a direct dialogue with her affected clients? Is it difficult to hang a branch office and gather all the victims into the congregation? For example, in the act hall of the nearest school, to explain and answer all questions clearly. Moreover, people flock to the street near the bank office almost daily and ask questions they cannot answer. As a national MP, I have requested the prosecutor of the area to bring to justice all those responsible in this situation. For us, the main challenge is for people to get their pensions and contributions back. But the Sbergs must remember that their crime will not go away. Thieves will have to sit in jail. This case is another lesson that points to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u206	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u207	That only communists today protect the common people, and only our coming to power can eradicate the evil of capitalism.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u208	I invite John Stoick, the faction "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, distinguished listeners! Ivan Styrofoam, Party for Ukraine. You know, really, every day you think, and what will tomorrow cut off this so-called non-Ukrainian or occupying power? Because in the two years that Janukovic has been running in Ukraine, nothing but the humiliation of pensioners, except that they have put Ukrainian businesses on their knees, our entrepreneurs, except for the collapse of socio-economic policies, they have done absolutely nothing. Today there is still an attack on humanitarian policy, and a vivid example of this is that recently introduced by a large majority of the bill that should be taken from the Ukrainian nation and from Pochaivska and Kyivo-Peterska lavra. We won't let that happen. I'm sure tomorrow will be again this video of Ukrainian language or of the second national Russian language, I'm sure they'll play on these feelings, but Ukraine and Donbas, and the eastern and southern regions already, I'm sure, have understood this power that doesn't work for people, but for themselves. Today, I am outraged that the so-called speaker of the Crimean Parliament has addressed his subjects, as if recently the authorities of the central government of Ukraine have begun sending him correspondence to the address of him and his authorities in Crimea in Ukrainian. Think about it. It's a top-ranking official who works in Ukraine. It's not like there's a Razansky or a Tambovsk district. And he dares to insult the Ukrainian language -- our nation, the language that unites all Ukrainians. This is the cynicism of today’s power. But more than that, I mean. It is no surprise that even the tobacco industry was appointed — two years ago to serve as the minister of education, who despised the Ukrainians in general and said that Galicines were not Ukrainian; God knows who. Two strong ministers have been appointed in recent weeks. The latter is Salamatin, who recently became a citizen of Ukraine. But I have a suspicion that he is a member of another State of Special Services. It is also Kalinin, who led the Ukrainian Security Service, which is clearly both the KHbeshnik and the FSBeshnik in modern dimensions. And that's why, Janukovic, early, before the end of his office, raised two hands and surrendered to the grace of Putin, who will appoint himself President of Russia tomorrow. That's why we Ukrainian patriots, all national-democracy parties today, more than ever, must unite. Only one team, only by being together, will we be able to bring this down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u210	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u211	It's this gangster government and it's going to change it to really Ukrainian. Thank you and Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-10-m0.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the following week the national deputies are working on committees, commissions, factions and groups. The Conciliation Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on February 20th at 11 p.m. and the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday February 21st at 10 p.m. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Good luck.
