ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:52]] Cards were registered in the 413 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy of Ukraine, Tishchenko Oleg Ivanovich, who has been married for 70 years. Please welcome a colleague. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the great day, as you know, the Pure Thursday. I'm sure you're all filled with clean, humane and good feelings, set up for a constructive, productive and kind job and a proper relationship in the session room. So, dear fellows, we need you with us. It was up to us to decide that the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine could continue to consider the issues set out in the schedule for the fourth time -- this holy day, well, night and night, if necessary. I am voting on this proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the finalization of the issues set out in the schedule for Thursday. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:02:30.]] For 247 Thank you, the decision is made. Ladies and gentlemen, the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors is under review. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution, belong to the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s appointment and release from office of head and other members of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Auditors, I submitted an application for the appointment of Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich as head of the House of Auditors. The committee proposes the following rules of procedure for the consideration of this matter: to give the representative of the Committee on Budget Affairs a period of up to 2 minutes for a candidate to present his vision of the Court of Auditors' work within 5 minutes, to answer questions, if any, within 5 minutes, and if there is a desire and need to speak from factions to 3 minutes, then to invite the head of the Committee to publish the voting order. The vote is proposed to take place from 12 to 13 hours, taking a proper break, and continuing to work according to our plan. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with article 208 of the Supreme Council Rules and article 10 of the bill "On the Court of Auditors", the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints the head of the Court of Auditors by secret balloting. Therefore, if there is no objection, dear colleagues, I invite Vladislav Lukyanov, the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, to publish the committee’s decision on this matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the question of the appointment of Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich as head of the Court of Auditors was put before Parliament. On April 4, the head of the Supreme Council sent a budget committee to review the nomination provided for in part two of article 205 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Auditors establishes that the head of the Court of Auditors is appointed to serve as the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a term of seven years. The head of the Court of Auditors may be a Ukrainian citizen who has a higher economic or legal education, an experience of professional activity in the field of government, state control, economics, finance, rights, and has confirmed his professional knowledge during the discussion of his candidacy. In accordance with part five of article 18 of the Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and part three of article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on 10 April, had previously considered the issue and approved the decision: Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich's candidacy for headship of the Court of Auditors met the requirements of article 10 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. To conclude, according to article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the election of the head of the Court of Auditors is carried out in secret through the submission of ballot papers. The results.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u3	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u4	The result of the vote is an appropriate decision of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u5	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. I invite Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u6	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! The Court of Auditors is an independent institution of parliamentary control over public finances. The strategic task, I think, is to see developments at the constitutional level, as well as in the practical work of the Court of Auditors on the principle of its independence. First of all, it is the expansion of the constitutional powers of the Court of Auditors as an independent government financial control body. This would be necessary to amend the Constitution to article 98 in part of the return of the Public Budget Revenue Control function to restore the revision of article 98, under which control, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was exercised by the Court of Auditors on the arrival and use of funds to the State budget. In practice, this means granting the Court of Auditors the right to make a full audit of public funds. This function is found in the activities of the vast majority of the European and SND accounting chambers. With a view to improving the legal framework for the activities of the Court of Auditors, it is urgent to develop and adopt a new edition of the Law on the Court of Auditors, which should systematically regulate the authorization of the Court of Auditors in the field of public control over the movement of public funds. Strengthening the role of the Court of Auditors in establishing a single financial control system in Ukraine is extremely relevant. At the time of reforming such a system, where the Court of Auditors is to be a coordinating, leading and sole institution of parliamentary control, to ensure full and transparent control of public finances. It is very important today that the internal audit and external control of the Court of Auditors be clearly distinguished in such a way as to reduce the pressure and pressure on the subject of control, a significant reduction in the number of control authorities in the State. With regard to the institutional development of the Court of Auditors, I think we should take a number of steps. Based on the experience gained by the Court of Auditors to optimize the structure and professional potential of the Court of Auditors, to compile auditors with the experience of a modern international audit school, to implement the European and world auditing standards, to enhance the role and prestige of auditors, and to ensure the independence of the Court of Auditors, both by form and by content. It also requires proper harmonisation of the relationship between the Court of Auditors and parliamentary committees, particularly in the area of further improvement of budgetary legislation. And as a future candidate, I intend to work fruitfully with the budget committee in this area. Also to ensure non-disclosure in the implementation of the Court of Auditors’ terms of reference. At the same time, I fully realize that the House of Auditors is an active institution of parliamentary control and must act on behalf of the entire Ukrainian Parliament. With regard to the updating of the Court of Auditors’ tasks, there will also be a need to ensure transparent and effective monitoring of the use of funds at the level of the regional structures of the Court of Auditors. Thank you, I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u7	Thank you, too, Roman Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the candidate? Please sign up. Please sign up. Yes, the names. Orest Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u8	Dear Roman Mikolaiovich, on behalf of the Ternopil community, I would like to thank you. Roman Mikolaiovich, here I am. Roman Mikolaiovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u9	Left, left.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u10	I'd like to say thank you from Ternopolska, Terenopolska has always been, is and will be a barometer of democracy and better people, and the better people are working in the government, working with all the presidents. I am glad that the first such great office is being held by a foreigner from Ternopolska. Good luck! And just so you know, we can always shoulder you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u11	Thank you for your confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u12	Vladislav Lukyanov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u13	Dear Romane Mikolaiovich, I wanted to say that we have a good tradition of cooperating with the Budget Committee and the Accounting Chamber. Members of the Supreme Council, national deputies, and representatives of the budget committee were usually invited to the meetings of the College of Accounts. This cooperation was constructive, and it helped make constructive and positive decisions. Moreover, this work has contributed to transparency both in the budget process and in the monitoring of budget implementation. So I had a proposition and a question. As you would see for the future the continuation of this cooperation, the support of these good traditions that have come together, which really allow for more work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u14	Please answer, Roman Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u15	I fully agree with you, and I will support those traditions, and the work, and we will take a direct part in the budget committee in addressing the urgent needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u16	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u17	Dear Roman Nikolayevich, we've looked at your biography, in fact, you've gone through all the steps in the banks, and in the banks, you've been working on serious CRU-related posts with financial analysis. And the recommendations from past jobs indicate that you are a serious conservative person, which is important for the future position. I repeat, a radical is not needed here, but a normal, moderate conservative is needed, a person who assesses the situation from the position of the State. We would like you to continue at the same pace and, in such positions, work in the most important public office, I hope, on which we will choose you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u18	Yes, please, for that matter, do you have anything to say? It's a wish then, okay. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I really feel in myself the strength and experience of the work that I've been doing, as in the banking system under control, also the spending of the local bank's budget, state, more specifically, and commercial banks. So I think I can make a big effort to make the Court of Auditors an active body for the control of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u20	Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u21	Please pass the word to my colleague, Undercover.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u22	Upstairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u23	Upstairs, the faction of "Timoshenko the Block of July" is "The Fatherland." Roman Mikolaiovich, it is probably clear to the electorate why the public budget has increased the funding of the Attorney General’s Office. The main article on expenditure is perhaps the financing of unlimited overseas deployments by Mr. Kuzmin, the first deputy prosecutor. That's a question for you. As you plan to be elected head of the Court of Auditors to control the execution of expenses by the Office of the Attorney-General, and do you consider such unlimited financing of these overseas missions, where Kuzmin is corrupting our country, to slander our opposition, to be really objective. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u24	Today, you haven't voted for me yet. But one thing I can say is that he is in charge of the Supreme. The head of the House of Accounts, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u25	Okay, you see? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u26	I'm sorry. The heads of the Court of Auditors will work in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Court of Auditors Act, and we will monitor expenses under the Court of Auditors Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u27	Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u28	The value of the counting room. I'm going to do everything I can to raise her status and, in fact, reality, correctness, non-engagement of decision-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u29	"Ukrainian Platform", "Cobor", "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Roman Mikolaiovich, I'd like to ask you if you'd be in control, including state banks? Please listen to the question! Will you control, including the costs of government banks? And you're a heroic person, as of the salary of 2 million 864 thousand a year, you're moving on to a very modest salary for the head of the account. Please tell me how the state bank could be in such trouble and in such a situation, which is about 85 doctors could be funded, and today the deputy's salary is 2 million 864 thousand. And should we not control the Court of Auditors’ expenses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u30	As a citizen of Ukraine, I have filled out a conscientious declaration indicating all my income, including salary, a bonus. From the amount I received, taxes were paid in full. I think that's what any person who claims to be a candidate of the Court of Auditors would do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u31	Yes. Thank you. Roman Mikolaiovich, thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to speak from the faction, please sign up. From the faction. Anyone who wants the faction, please sign up. Yes, my name, please. Valerius Kamchatny, please. Then there's Korge, "BUT" is "Paternal."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, at last today we have come to consider such an extremely important issue as the election of the Head of the Court of Auditors. In fact, before unlocking the work of this important and necessary parliamentary authority on spending the budget. This position was known to have been vacant since July of last year. At the same time, the issue is the use of budgetary resources, which is a matter of constant concern to the Ukrainian public. And it never ceases to undermine trust in public institutions as a result of the speculations that arise on this subject. So today, a very important step has been taken in this direction, and we know that according to the current legislation, quite serious control functions have been placed on the Court of Auditors. It should be used not only as an instrument of influence but as a tool for an objective and equitable assessment of government fiscal and financial policies. Our "Reforms for the Future" faction believes that the House of Accounts should be ruled by a professional and a man with an impeccable reputation. This candidature should not only be chosen by a majority of the votes but should receive the support of a convincing part of the deputies in the Parliamentary Chamber. This consensus will guarantee trust in the head of this vital body. And trust and political neutrality will be key factors in his professional success. This is the position of this body — the position of legality, planning, objectivity, independence, transparency — that will depoliticize the budgetary process, stop speculation around the subject of budgetary resources, confirm trust in the decisions of the Supreme Council, the budgetary decisions of the Supreme Council. Our "Reforms for the Future" faction urges colleagues in both parliamentary camps, both on the right and on the left, to recognize the importance of the effective work of this body and to make an open choice of a worthy candidate. We are also convinced that Roman Maguta's proposal today is entirely in line with these criteria. We support him with all our voices, and we urge our colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u33	From the Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland" will be performed by Hanushtak, please. Then there's Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u34	First of all, it's a rhetorical question. In accordance with Article 11 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, a candidate for such a position should be examined. According to the documents we got, it's not there. This means that a person has not been checked. Now the essence of this candidature. Who is the Head of the Court of Auditors? It's a person who has to show professionally, primarily the opposition, that public finances are spent as well. Thus, in all civilized countries, such a candidate is put forth solely on the side of opposition. Therefore, all seven years of opposition, first of all, we will not put our trust in such a person’s word to the end. The second is professional qualities. Man hasn't worked in public service in a day, once. Therefore, it is no longer in line with the criteria set out for this candidature. The other one. She hasn't worked in public finances for a day. The financial system, the public finances, it's a very conservative system and the selection of personnel goes there very carefully. The chief of simple financial management may be a person who has worked for at least five years in a position such as this, at present. We don't have a day. Remember, even Arbuzov, in order to lead the National Bank, went through some serious checks and internships at the National Bank. And that's because commercial banks work directly with regulators. And so he knew how to work with the National Bank at least indirectly. We don't have that here. To whom do we trust our money? Third. What is the Court of Auditors, and what are its requirements? It's primarily an analytical work, it's an audit, it's what we need to show, we, the Supreme Council, have to know how to develop lateral finance. What do we have after we've been given? Does he have any research, any work in this area? Zero. Does he have any inventions, or does he have a scientific name? Zero. Can it represent Ukraine on an interstate, interstate level? No, it's not. He doesn't even know basic foreign languages. So we can say we're offered a completely average millionth of a city in Donetsk. A whole clan thing. What do we see? Grayness will continue to govern Ukraine. That's why we can't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you that all candidates for office who are to be granted the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the relevant Anti-Corruption Act, are being subject to a special inspection. Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich was no exception. If someone is interested in these materials, please take a look at these materials. Without that, even from a formal point of view, we could not deal with the matter. Please, Your Honor, calm down. Please, Oleg Zarubinski. We agreed today what day it is, and you're starting to show anger.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to build my speech on the comments on the proposals that were made during the presentation, the proposals for the work of the House of Auditors in Ukraine. With regard to the proposal for a substantial reduction of control authorities in the state. Obviously, this is a command of time, and someone likes it or dislikes it, and this is the way to go. However, when we talk about reductions in the quantity of control organs, it is obvious that the quality of control should be put first. And in this case, the proposal that was made by the claimant to reverse the mandate of the Accounting Chamber for public control not only of use, but also of government funds, it's not new, but it's one that's been going on for years. Obviously, this needs to go back to that, because public control, the area of public control of public finances, has to be designed not only for use, but also for the coming of funds: how much, how, how, how transparent, how right, how right, how right from the legislative point of view. The next moment. In general, the issue of public control over the movement of state finances, public funds -- these are issues that distinguish between developed and civilized economies, developed civilised societies and those that are not. And so, I think that if a candidate is chosen, a candidate who presented his position, he has to focus on this issue -- publicity, transparency, the ability to control, including the functioning of the Civil Society Accounting Chamber, on the part of society as a whole -- it's time-consuming, how fashionable to say now, it's like a trend of time. What I'd like to disagree with or correct the candidate's statement. It was said that cooperation with the budgetary committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be maintained and strengthened. That's not right. The Court of Auditors should cooperate and work actively with all the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because every committee under the Ukrainian Act "On the Committees of the Supreme Council" has a control function in this Queen, in that corridor that she is entrusted with valid legislation. The People's Party faction trusts the Head of the Supreme Council with regard to the proposed candidate and will support this candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u37	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, faction of the Party of the Regions. Kirilo Kulikov of the faction will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u38	Dear National Deputies! Of course, today we are discussing matters of high national importance. The Court of Auditors is a constitutional body whose main task is to control at a transparent public level the implementation of the State budget on the basis of objectivity, legality, publicity and independence. I would like to take this opportunity to thank from all of us, Simonec Valentino Kostinović, who headed the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine for almost 14 years and worked very hard to create a powerful constitutional government body. And thanks to his efforts, the efforts of the collective of the Court of Auditors have been used today and by a very serious international authority. Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich is a very serious and consistent person, and I would like to pay attention to that. Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich has come down a very serious professional path, he has great experience in financial matters, government systems, control. And what matters is, in principle, what has been confirmed in the course of his speech and responses, a person who is distanced from political competition and has the will, the desire, the experience of directing efforts to carry out the essential functions of the head of the Court of Auditors, first of all from the priorities of the state, the interests of society and the laws of Ukraine. A few wishes. For us today, it is very fundamental to strengthen joint control, including through the interaction of the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Council of Ukraine on monitoring the implementation of state-wide strategic programmes. This is of fundamental importance to us. A very serious question -- and this is going to be in the center, I'm sure, of our attention -- of national domestic debt, external debt. Of course, interaction with the National Bank, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On the basis of the foregoing, we believe that Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich is ready to serve as the head of the House of Auditors. The faction of the Party of the Regions will support this candidature and call on everyone, regardless of political colour, in the Supreme Council to do the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u39	Kirilo Kulikov, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u40	Thank you very much, colleagues. Kirilo Kulikov, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”, the head of the subcommittee for monitoring the activities of the Court of Auditors and the execution of the National Budget of Ukraine. This is my direct assignment in this Supreme Council, working with the Accounting Chamber. There was no colleague, an account room where I wouldn't be present. I want to say again, and I'm grateful to my colleague Kinach for thanking Mr. Simonek, because it was, indeed, a figure, it was, indeed, a phenomenon, it was the most competent expert in this field. I don't have any personal claims to a candidate, I don't have anything personal. But when I read the candidate's biography, I think that people ended up in Ukraine because every job: the auditor is Donetsk, the head accountant is Donetsk, the head of the government is Donetsk, the boss is Donetsek, everything is Donetsk. We don't have any more people in Ukraine? There's no one else to work with? Ah, there's Makiyyukka and Jenakieva, I'm sorry. Another position, when both the head of the government and the minister of justice spoke from this rostrum, was clearly said to be the office of opposition. Because the budget has to be controlled by the opposition's representative, and that's why we're going to be working. Why have these positions been changed, as always? How, Your Honor, are you going to control the state spending of all the people who are out of Donetsk? How are we going to control the National Bank? How are we going to make the decisions made here by the interim commission of inquiry from the National Bank? How did we make a decision on the budget committee yesterday? I'm sorry, maybe you can't hear me because I work with you if you're chosen. How was it decided on the budget committee yesterday to pay off the Czervetsky debt he took from the Krzystytick bank under 47 percent of the year olds, 47.500 million, and didn't find 200 million for the army yesterday? Because our air force only has 12 planes, but we have to give Czerwetsky's credits. How do we do this in a way that no observation of the Court of Auditors has been taken into account in the budget? In what way have three years in a row failed to hear reports from the Court of Auditors regarding the implementation of the budget? There is no such body in the state as the Court of Auditors! No one hears it or wants to hear it! And that's why Simone's great respect for having a personal position, apart from any policy, was honest. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u41	Alla Alexandrovska, faction of the Company. Out of the way, huh? Microphone, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u42	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I would like to express our position, our faction's position on a new appointment for the head of the Court of Auditors. We believe that the Court of Auditors of Ukraine has been held as a valid body controlling the expenditure of the budget. We would like to see that the Rahun House may issue more recommendations to the Government because we see that, for example, in the area of housing and utilities, there are a lot of problems in the fact that no one actually controls the cost of services in this area, and these services are bloated, very much money is taken out of the pockets of consumers. So, I think the Court of Auditors has a lot of work to do. Although the experience gained by the specialists of this very respected monitoring body suggests the capacity of the Court of Auditors to deal with the most complex problems. Indeed, there is a flaw in the fact that the law enforcement system does not listen to the recommendations it makes for the frequent Court of Auditors. I think that we must overcome this together, we, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who is interested in being a serious, effective monitoring system and, of course, the management of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. I would therefore like to wish our partner, in the area of public finance management, the Court of Auditors of Ukraine, success and hope that the new leadership will be able to make the Court's work even more effective, even more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u43	Everything? Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. As for people from one region, I would like to be objective here. If we're talking about our candidate, let's say he was born in the village of Ilic, Maktaaral district, Chimken district. This is the first time. Oh, that's different. For a long time, he lived and studied in Ternopolska, then worked in Donetskina, and for more than five years he has been living and working in Kiev. So we need to be objective in this regard. That's the first one. And the second. Dear colleagues, when one of the speakers claims that it is a position to be held by representatives of the opposition, be calm, the authorities are preparing for opposition. Everything will be fine after the election. But everyone's set on what happens after the election is another deployment of forces in the Supreme Council. So we have to take that as a given. But the main thing, your fellow believers, is to accept a conscious choice. It seems to me that when I introduced and proposed this candidate, she was no more than political and political. And you can see that the candidate for this position isn't Cicero, which means he's not going to do politics, he's going to do work. The main thing is to conduct audits. And notice what Maguta Roman said. That the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Court of Auditors to control incomes should be restored so that expenditure can be controlled objectively. Dear colleagues, I now invite you to the address of the head of the Counting Commission, Mikola Haritonovich Shersun. Please listen carefully to the head of the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We're about to hold an organizational session first for his organization to hold a secret vote on the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors. It is necessary to hold this meeting, the first meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Members of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are requested to meet in five minutes in Room 5 in the third floor towers above the session hall. Once again, I will allow myself to recall the composition of the Military Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its sixth vocation: Shershun, Vizewski, Shago, Barwinenko, Biruk, Kondratenko, Gacko, Gordijenko, Grimczak, Kasyanuk, Kozub, Komar, Mankovsky, Final, Oliynik Viktor, Prokopchuk Yuri, Stoyan Alexander, Dry Jaroslav, Tkac Roman. Thank you. I'd like you to meet me in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u45	I would ask the members of the Counting Commission to hold a meeting. Honourable People's Deputies are two factions: the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, in accordance with the Rules, require a 30-minute recess. We've had a consultation, agreed to hold a meeting of the Conciliation Board for 15 minutes. Then there will be appropriate information for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result, respectable colleagues, two factions are being suspended for 15 minutes to 11 hours. To the leaders of the MP factions and groups, please meet in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. The Conciliation Council adjourned. We agreed, we'll listen to statements from the factions that took a break and continue our work. Please, who? Bummer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u47	Respectable citizens! The statement and statement by Henprocuror Pshonka and his first deputy Kuzmin about the alleged involvement of Yulia Timoshenko in the murder of Eugenia Szczerbane and the baseless, premeditated charges against her in other crimes is an attempt to hide the real buyers, and the responsibility to transfer the responsibility to the leader of the opposition to discredit her. The attempt to accuse Julia Timoshenko of these matters is a brutal provocation. This is the "political keelership" of power exercised by Viktor Janukovic in relation to Julia Timoshenko. Thus, 150 signatures were collected by opposition factions regarding the initiation of a mistrust procedure for the Attorney General. We demand that we put the issue before Parliament. We also demand that Victor Pshonka report to the Supreme Council and give complete answers to the people's deputies: on what grounds, without any investigation or evidence, he and his first deputy are accusing Julia Timoshenko. At the same time, our faction initiates the creation of a temporary investigation commission to find out the circumstances of the murder of the national deputies Eugenia Szczerbane, Eugene Kushnarov, and other mass killings of prominent politicians and businessmen that took place during 1995-1998 in the Donetsk region. It was at this time that the prosecutor in the Donetsk region was Victor Pshonka, and it was at this time that mass killings took place. The main witness in the murder of Eugenia Scrooge Alexander Kushner was killed in the investigation unit of Donetsk. Today, the last of the witnesses to be held in prison was suddenly transferred to the Lukyaniv SIZO in Kiev. Is it not the purpose of the final elimination of the trace of the real buyers of the murder of Eugenia Scherbán and other crimes? Apparently, today's Henprosecutor is personally responsible for the horrendous killings that took place in the Donetsk region in the mid-1990s and that are still undiscovered. And he must also bear responsibility for the baseless accusations of Julia Timoshenko, who he and his first deputy are allowing themselves to make public statements. That's why the "Boat of Fatherhood" faction requires the Attorney General's report on the Supreme Council and the question of his resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we held a meeting of the Conciliation Council. We discussed an initiative with two factions, and we agreed that. did not agree, but simply came to the obvious fact that the procedures are in line with the Rules. This question is complex and responsible and needs to be acted upon according to the positions outlined in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which are known to be the law. And I'm grateful that we had such a unanimous understanding of this problem in this regard. Dear colleagues, you and I have agreed that we are working today to complete the consideration of the issues set by the timetable. There was also a suggestion that we might agree to take a break from, one minute, from the 14th to the 15th to take a break, and then from the 15th hour to continue work. Well, a lot of questions. So please think about this. When you're ready, I will. Please, Sergei Sass. Please. Just a minute. Prepare to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u49	Thank you. Deputy Sass, "BUT is the Fatherland." Volodymyr Mikhailovich, well, stop bullying the Rules. I understand there's a lot of things going on. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I addressed you twice personally to Adam Ivanovich, yesterday you promised that you would execute the second part of the first part of article 27, and finally publish who was absent for important reasons. At your initiative, you said that you would publish those who were absent in the hall for no good reason. You know, well, how much can we talk about all this stuff?Oh, my God! You know, it's a very relevant saying here: "The more cats you're ironing, the more tail it raises." This is no way to abuse the national MPs of one’s colleagues. Do your duty and announce who is missing and delete the cards! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u50	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Secretariat, please give me all the information, because the National MP has absolute logic so that I can announce the names. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for us to take a break. Dear colleagues, the offer is to take a break from 15 to 16 hours and from 14 to 15. So we're working until 15 hours and then the break hour, because we have an evening session starting at 4:00. Understand? Therefore, the request, the morning session, will continue until 15 hours. As for the evening meeting, we have made our decisions with you. And we're only taking a break for a vote from 12 to 13 hours. These are the proposals I'm putting to the vote, please support. [[11:15:16]] For 215 () [[B in m in s a l in]] I think we should think about it. I'll put the vote back on the proposal. [[11:15:43]] For 256 We're back. I'm voting on this proposal. Come on, vote, please. There's no need. [[11:16:04]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you for your understanding. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of the KPC. We should now consider article 96. The reporter is the first deputy head of the committee, Vladimir Olijnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u51	Savchenka's amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u52	Dear colleagues. Yes, Savechenko doesn't insist? Kiwalov, next? No, it's not. Yuri's digger, microphone, please. It's a 1297 amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u53	The amendment proposes part two of article 96 to read as follows: "To prove that the testimony is inconclusive, the party has the right to provide reliable, appropriate and admissible evidence." I would like to reconnect with the events that are now taking place around the name of Julia Timoshenko. As soon as our Attorney General and other law enforcement agencies, Kyiv was destroyed, not by Bati, but by the descendants or ancestors of Yulia Timoshenko, in 1242. We're about to get to the terrorist attacks in America and it's going to be the same again because now everything that's going on in the country is carrying unreliable data. Everything is done to finally, finally, repeat this, Julius Tymoshenko as the leader of the opposition to get out of the political game. What is more, it is not just about getting out of the game but about threatening life. And today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u54	Amendment 1297 shall be put to the vote. [[11:18:21]] For-63 Correction not supported. Amendment 1300, Yuri Odarchenko. The committee invites us to identify ourselves in the session room. Please, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u55	You know, the reporter said that they don't accept amendments because there's a concept that the president approved. Now, my friends, this amendment duplicates the standards that are in the codes of almost all the countries of the world: both in the Russian Federation, and in the United States, and in European countries. Its point is that the witness can be asked not only about the circumstances and his personal reputation but also about his relationship with the parties to the case. With this information, the parties may try to refute the testimony of the witnesses by referring to his objectivity or personal interest. The enemy’s appearances even in the Middle Ages were questionable. Are we going to write a worse document in modern Ukraine than in the 12th century? If it's our President's strategy or concept, say it one more time. I'm asking you to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u56	Amendment 1300 shall be put to the vote. [[11:20:05]] For-53 Amendment 1299. Amendment 1300 is not accepted. Arsenius Yatsenuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the third day in a row in Parliament, there is a great farce called "Admission of Criminal Procedure Law." There is complete absurdity when thousands of amendments that improve the protection of citizens’ rights rather than improve the protection of the rights of prosecutors, militias, and investigators are simply rejected by the overwhelming majority. Unfortunately, this has become a real practice when Parliament refuses in the form of the majority and the Party of Regions not only conduct a dialogue, but listen to incredibly intelligent and rational opposition proposals. In particular, I would like to stop at the 1299 amendment that provides for the introduction of a protection survey institute. It's a standard system in Anglo-Saxon and American, in the Anglo-Saxon system of law, which allows for evidence to be obtained from defence witnesses. This model is being removed from the codex and we suggest that we include it as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u58	Please, Your Honor, vote on Amendment 1299. [[11:21:45]] For-52 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, consider the vote in article 96. Please vote. Dear colleagues, please don't hold a meeting there. Vote, please, come on. The vote is coming. [[11:22:09]] For 261 Article accepted. Dear colleagues, the amendments of 1302 and 1309 are authentic. The committee decided to decide on them by voting. Sergei Sas, please, about this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Deputy Sas, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear colleagues, well, the author of the legislative initiative, the President of Ukraine has proposed some kind of conceptual know-how, proposing a new legal category that has not yet been seen, a statement from others. It's called "knocking" in a prodigy, you know? I think in the near future, if this article is adopted, our President can be nominated for the Nobel Prize in physics, because we have a knock, and it will be proven that the knock is spreading faster than the sound in Ukraine. And another less radical version of this article. This CCS system is being implemented, it's being introduced into criminal conduct. [[F.B.S. One grandmother told me who didn't know]] I propose that this article be deleted. This is a spectacle that Ukrainian jurisprudence has not yet known. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u60	Please, Sweden Victor. Then there's Yuri Prokopchuk. Let's hear it, my dear fellows, well, absolute logic: testimony from someone else's words -- well, that's absurd!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you know, to lead to absurdity all that we do here must probably accept further testimony from someone else's words. Imagine what this is all about. To this day we come out of the fact that the witness is. What's witness testimony, and who's witness? This is the person who saw the circumstances of the commission of an offence, who himself was present on what he might have seen to have been committed. So the point is that a person could confirm at the stage of the pretrial investigation and trial the circumstances that he saw directly. And in this, the value and reliability of these shows. If we go along the path now, as we suggested, "out of the stranger's words," it would be a subjective impression of a person who "heard the bell but didn't know where it was". Similarly, the codex can be supplemented by the need for the testimony of the dead. Dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u62	Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u63	Yuri Prokopchuk, Yulia Timoshenko, Fatherland. I'm still doing this because nine deputies have made these proposals. There's a lot more of them, just the ones that came out here. What is it? I would now like to address all Ukrainian citizens. What if this article is "blessed", 97th, means, from tomorrow or from the moment of signing. Hail 1937, 1939! I will also remind you that many witnesses who testified under the pressure of investigators, prosecutors, in the court in Yulia Timoshenko, in Yuri Lucenka, in the courtroom, then refused to testify. And now those testimonies that will be written on toilet paper with incomprehensible signatures, or anonymous ones, will be accepted for consideration. What are you doing? Think, it's waiting for you, too, and look at you, it's so written on the Internet, it's going to become a basic message.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u64	Please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u65	A similar standard exists in many European countries, and European experts have supported such an interpretation. But you're absolutely wrong to make an accent, no anonymity, it's a testimony from a person who's heard from another person who can only be evaluated in aggregate with other evidence. But when you contradict yourself, because there's still a proposal from the opposition to change the wording. So it's a contradiction, but it's a European norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u66	Vladimir Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u67	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Vladimir Mikhailovich, mine, my amendment went ahead of time, so please take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u68	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u69	I fully support my colleague at the Timoshenko Yulia Block. So even if you take this concept of the code as approved by the President, think about it, you are going to use live testimony from a person who was testifying in the investigation and came to court, and you changed shows, you can't use it. And shows from someone else's words, as colleague Sass said, "one grandmother said," that's absolutely true. Where'd you get that? What codex, what state?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u70	Where's your repair? You don't have an amendment. Please, Valery Beales, because this is it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, right, there's only one thing in the right: the person's display and everything. Which is why my colleague Sass is absolutely right. In other people's words, in their own words, in their own words, in their own words, in their uncle's words, there are simple displays, and we have to limit ourselves. And the amendment of the Sasa People's Deputy, I think, should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u72	Please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! A similar norm works now, but we settle it with an article. What are we talking about? If, for example, a crime is committed, and a person dies, telling an eyewitness that a certain person has killed him, it will be an additional test of the version, and it will only be evidence of confession in conjunction with others. It's working today. We simply incorporate it in a separate article and organize it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote. I'll just say one thing. Arguments and explanations are correct. And the references to other countries are absolutely correct. But they haven't trained people to communicate to each other in years, and you know very well what we're going to get in our society when we're going through a process of changing values, changing orientation, changing everything else. We're being ridiculous. Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop in this corner for a moment and make the right decision. Well, that's ridiculous. Someone's coming tomorrow to tell someone they said something at the tram stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u75	And it's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u76	Well, that's all right, I read the text carefully. But I am voting, honourable colleagues, on supporting Amendments 1302, 1309, which propose that article 97 be deleted. Please vote. [[11:29:54]] For-136 The decision is not taken. For what confirmation, dear colleagues? What confirmation? This is when the amendment is taken into account, then it is voted on for confirmation, and this amendment is out of the question, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues! Then we will vote on the article. If it doesn't work, then we'll go back to fixing it. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, "BUT – Fatherland" – 63, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 18, Communists – 25, People's Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 3, non-fractional – 7. Yuri Odarchenko. 1310 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u77	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, thank you for your position, but there was a request for the article to ask this question for its support by voting, so that your faction and the faction of Communists would mention that there was no need to vote for this article. Friends, I want to remind you of the Renata Kuzmin performances that were on Friday. He referred to some testimony from witnesses who had already been killed in the case of Bragin, Scribbling, and others. Now you're trying to establish such a testimony by law. It's a disgrace. Colleagues, in the Code of Law, provide that testimony that they say is inadmissible. But the authors of the draft and codex suggest that they be allowed. I mean, anyone can come to court and say, I heard Ivanov tell you that Peter's killer and it's going to be taken as proof of Petrov's guilt, I'm asking you to think about it. In doing so, John will not be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, you will somehow identify yourself, as you said before, you are not allowed to accept, and you are now editing this article. Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u80	Amendment 1310 shall be put to the vote. [[11:32:20]] For-55 No correction supported. Amendment 1311. We need to determine it by voting. I am voting on the proposal to support Amendment 1311. [[11:32:45]] For the Correction not supported. Dentist Correction 312. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Moses, 1313 and 1314. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u81	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Allow me two amendments at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, Paul Prokopovich Glazov has such humorous testimony in court. So the neighbor tells the judge that he says the neighbors were fighting, and he hit each other with the ax’s shoe on the head. And the judge says, "So you said in the investigation that you were in the barn when they were fighting." So I said, really, I was in the barn. What makes you think I'm axing my head? It's like it's gone through something empty. Do you hear me? Such evidence is now to be considered. As to the amendment and, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich as a reporter, I asked to be expelled. But if you didn't do it, I want to do it humanly, okay. This article is a little more human. In America, there's the concept of "core evidence" and "accompanied." So if, as I suggest in two amendments, make it "accompanied," not "proof." So showing from someone else's words is additional evidence if they're confessed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u85	If they are recognized by the parties and confirmed by basic evidence. But don't do that. One grandmother said.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u86	Thank you. The vote is on Amendments 1313 and 1314. [[11:34:31]] For-53 The amendment is not accepted. 1315. Are they insisting? No, it's not. 1316. Is Andrew School insisting? No, it's not. 1318 readjustment, accounted for. Does she have a warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u87	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u88	Let's move on. Moses, 1320. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u89	Vladimir Moisik Party "For Ukraine!".. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, then there's no logic. I'm offering to exclude part of this. What are we talking about? You write: in any case, they can't be declared admissible evidence of someone else's words if they were given to the prosecutor, to the investigator, to the operative, and so on. So according to your logic, let them confess, because he was the first to question him, and he died, he didn't say anything, you know? Get the absurdity to a logical conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u90	Amendment 1320 shall be put to the vote. [[11:35:47]] For-45 No correction supported Dear colleagues, Amendment 1321 is included. Is there a warning to her? None. Yes, Amendment 1324. Vladimir Moisik, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u91	Vladimir Moisik Party for Ukraine. Again to you, too, are the honourable colleagues of the majority. I want to make sure you don't have to use the testimony of someone else's words against you. And here's two texts, on two pages, I wrote, under which conditions this could be done, as an exception, if there's basic evidence, and this could be accompanying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u92	Amendment 1324 shall be put to the vote. [[11:36:45]] For-41 Correction not accepted. 1325 amendment, Yuri Odarchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u93	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a request to you as presiding officer, as to an academic scientist so that we do not support or vote in this article at all. Well, this is, in fact, even from the point of view of society, we do absolutely infamous things. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if, well, you weren't in court over Timoshenko, you were questioned by just two witnesses from her, another 30 from the charge, 90 percent from the statement. And now this is done to establish this rule of law in order to cover up crimes that have already taken place and to do similar things in the future. Colleagues, tomorrow each of you can be charged with testimony from someone else's words. I ask you not to vote in favour of this article at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u94	Please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u95	Dear colleague, you are contradicting yourself. You have made an amendment to 1310 where you have made a new edition of this article. So once again, we're acting in accordance with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u96	Amendment 1325 shall be put to the vote. [[11:38:23]] For-49 The amendment is not accepted. Article 97 puts to the vote. Please be sure. Article 97. [[11:38:45]] For 248 Yes. Article 1326. And 1327. They're identical, we need to determine by vote. Elina Shishkina, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, yes, these two amendments are identical, so I'll talk about them myself. I wonder how this amendment doesn't match the philosophy of the Criminal Procedure Code? I would like to remind you, Mr. President of Ukraine, that in 2008 the concept of reforming criminal justice in Ukraine, on the basis of which this project was developed, recognizing the actual circumstances of the case, the information, the things and the documents with the evidence, was the exclusive competence of the court. You overturned all of this and made a confession of evidence at the stage of the pretrial investigation, and that they were already recognized by both investigators and prosecutors. So once again, I insist on my right hand and say that the evidence should only be admitted in court. Before that they are things, they are documents, they are information and they are actual circumstances in the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u98	Honorable National MPs are voting on Amendments 1326, 1327 to support them. [[11:40:30.]] For-50 Corrections are not supported. 1328 - Victor Schwetz, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Before we talk about this amendment, I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to convey to the rapporteur, when there is a break, to find the appropriate standard of the Criminal Procedure Code, where it will be clearly defined, in which language criminal justice will be conducted in Ukraine. Because people are interested. Perhaps there will be another language for people to have enough vocabulary to learn other languages. Because, think about it, the Criminal Procedure Code doesn't provide an answer to what language criminal justice will be conducted. That's the first one. The second is about this amendment. I fully support what my colleague Shishkin said. And I want to say that this chapter should be called Words and Documents, and the article should be called, not Word Evidence, but Words. After the court has made appropriate assessments, they become evidence, and in advance they cannot be evidence. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u100	Amendment 1328 shall be put to the vote. [[11:41:58]] For-49 No correction supported. Amendment 1329 is to be decided by vote. Roman Zvaric, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, in addition to the fact that I think this code is of a general progressive nature, there are separate positions in this project that vividly overwhelm all the progressive works in this project. This is particularly true, as this project, as this code defines the concept of proof. This is exactly the key position. I can't understand why there were no proposals voted against the opposition to distinguish the concept, as the Romans once called prima facie evidence, which is the main evidence of supporting evidence. There can be no supporting evidence at the same level as the basic, or prima facie, evidence. Unfortunately, this codex does not do so, and so we have a great danger that all progressive works can be crossed out in this code. I ask you, however, to listen to the offer of opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u102	Amendment 1329 is put to the vote to support it. [[11:43:33]] For-42 Correction not supported. Amendment 1330 is a vote for support. [[11:43:54]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. Amendment 1331, Elina Shishkina, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, at any time, I need you to repeat that this project was developed by the National Commission for the Strengthening of Democracy, the rule of law based on the concept of criminal justice reform, which was approved by President Yushchenk's Order in 2008, which was confirmed that the evidence should only be proved in court. It must be solely the jurisdiction of the court. You overturned all of this, you made evidence at the stage of the pretrial investigation. For you accordingly, no European standards that you so declare that they are laid down in this code have any meaning. So with this right, I propose once again that it be established that things and documents are evidence only in court. I also propose this right to define what a particular thing is, which is a particular document. Please support and insist on my right hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u104	Amendment 1331 shall be put to the vote. [[11:45:10]] For-51 No correction supported. Vladimir Moses. Microphone. Amendment 1332.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u105	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine”. I fully support my colleague Shishkin, Sweden. These are complex legal materials, Vladimir Mikhailovich. In two days, no colleagues from the Party of the Regions spoke, not one, not one. They do not escape, they have not heard of the codex, but they vote, God give them health. So this is what we're talking about. The evidence, the documents, they go to court because this concept of the Criminal Procedure Code project, the prosecutor with his bag of documents, and the investigator with his bag goes to court, each one individually, and that's where they're supposed to become evidence. But once you've written that you're here in the investigation, think about what else you wrote: "The verbal evidence is only the instrument of crime." So where did you read it, tell me? And the means of committing crime, the objects of crime, the money, the paintings, the food, and so on, it's all things and objects. So once you don't want to change the name, essentially look.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u106	Amendment 1332 shall be put to the vote. [[11:46:44]] For-51 Correction not supported. Amendment 1333 counted. Any warning? There is then a vote, please note, on support for Amendment 1333, on the confirmation of Amendment 1333. [[11:47:18]] For 257 Correction accepted. Amendment 1334 is taken into account in part. I'm voting for her confirmation. [[11:47:42]] For the five of us. Correction not supported. Puts to the vote article 98. Please vote. [[11:48:07]] For 265 Article accepted. Amendment 1335. Lilia Grigorovitch, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. 1336 Arseny Yatzenyuk. Please. Don't insist. Amendment 1339, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u107	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." Dear colleagues, paragraph 2 of Part Two is proposed to be excluded. It is a matter of ensuring that the materials obtained as a result of the criminal conduct of the actions envisaged by the valid international treaties agreed upon by the Supreme Council. I say that this legal structure is completely unspecified, vague, absurd by legal design and does not bear any burden. If these things go through in this bill, I won't be surprised that tomorrow Julia Volodymyr's Timoshenko will be blamed for the arson of the Reichstag with George Dimitrov or recognized as leader of the Somali pirates. Your Honor, stop all this stuff! Vladimir Mikhailovich, and as long as I have three seconds, please open the Rules, 120 articles, and see what it says. Then I'll remind you what it says.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u108	I heard. Amendment 1339 shall be put to the vote. [[11:50:09]] For-42 The amendment is not accepted. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, my dear colleagues, please, let us now hear what the head of the Counting Commission advises us to continue our work. Is there no objection? Please, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u109	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! There was a meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of the 20 members of the Counting Commission, 15 were present at the meeting, i.e. the meeting of the Commission is in place. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting approved this form of ballot for secret ballots. The ballot is made on white paper in the form of a rectangle with a black inscription. The ballot for secret ballots will be issued by the Counting Commission only after the presentation of the national deputy of Ukraine, which I have repeatedly stressed. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that in accordance with the third part of article 39 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, voting is carried out by secret balloting by means of a sign on the ballot that testifies to the will of Ukraine's national deputy. One candidate was added to the secret ballot on the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors: Maguti Roman Mikolaiovich. If you support a candidate, you mark any square opposite his name. If you do not support the candidate, make the check box in the box below. I also remind you that only one mark should be made according to your will. Otherwise, the ballot will be considered invalid. And now the main thing. The vote will take place from 12 to 13 hours, not for a minute before or for a minute later: from 12 to 13 hours in the second floor towers at the registration desks of Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, please, Yuri Prokopchuk. May I have your attention, please? Right now we need to get a hold of the bulletin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u111	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is a great request for information from the Digital Commission regarding the presence of deputies, those who are now in the workplace, and those who are on board abroad, who are sick and so on. So we can have this painting before the vote starts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u112	Thank you. This is my proposal to the well - known, distinguished colleagues who vote only for the people of the nations. Wait a minute! What questions? Only the living national deputies in the presence of a document that testifies to a person. That's why there's no problem. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the motion to approve the ballot for the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors. Please vote. [[11:53:54]] For 266 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we have five minutes to 12. It's to get in line, to go to the registration tables, so... and at 12 o'clock, the vote will start. There's a break in 13 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u113	Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. We'll continue our sessions. We should now consider the question of the appointment and release of judges. Before that announcement. Dear colleagues, at 2 p.m. on the third floor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be a presentation of the Hmelni district — its cultural and spiritual potential. This presentation was organized by the Hmielna District Council. I would ask the distinguished national deputies to visit this arrangement in order to rest their souls and touch our spiritual sources. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing the question of the election and release of judges. The rapporteur is the head of the High Qualifying Commission, Igor Leonovich Samsin. Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u114	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Act. She also discussed the appeal of citizens, public organizations, businesses, institutions of all forms of property, government authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for judges who came to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine as a matter of time when the commission was considering recommending them to serve as judges on an open-ended basis. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u115	Draft decision 10319.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u116	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Donz Alexander Evgenovich, Logwinenka Andrija Alexandrovich, Moroz Valentin Fedorovich; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Klub Vasil Vasil Vasilovich; Sevastopol’s Administrative Court of AppealCobal Mikhail Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote a motion for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 10319]] Please vote. [[13:02:39]] For 237 Decision taken. Project Regulation 10319-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u118	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis to serve as judges. Kyiv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Oksenenko Oleg Mikolaiovich With regard to Judge Mezenzev Eugene Igorovich, you should have received applications from the Higher Qualifications Commission. Take it off, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u119	Fellow dignitaries came to the High Qualifying Commission and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a statement by Meziencev Eugen Igorovich, who asks not to consider his questions in connection with family circumstances. He cannot participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council. Therefore, the suggestion is that we postpone consideration of his question when family circumstances become clear, and then we will consider the matter. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges, excluding from the project the name Mesencev Eugen Igorovich. [[Registration number 10319-1]] Please vote. [[13:04:01]] For 253 Decision taken. Project Regulation 10319-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u120	To be appointed as judges on an untimely basis. Wynnick's Administrative Court of Appeal of Gontaruk Viktor Mikolaiovich, Sapalov Tetjana Valentinovna, Storkczak Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u121	I'm betting on a motion for a vote for a Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges. [[Registration number 10319-2]] [[13:04:46]] For 251 Decision taken. Draft decision 10319-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u122	Choose Lot’s Julius Vasilovna to serve as the judge of the local court of Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u123	I'm betting on a motion to adopt a Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of a judge. [[Registration number 10319-3]] [[13:05:22]] For 253 A decision has been made. Yes, thank you, too. Now, dear fellows, let's take a look at the question of the release of judges, and then we'll welcome the judges by then. I invite you to speak with the head of the Justice Council of Kolesnik Vadim Mikolaiovich. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u124	Thank you. Congratulations! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Project Rule 10186. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u125	Yes, 10186. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u126	The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 21 February this year, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 9, of Part Five, article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, and article 31 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the release of judges from general status and decided to submit the relevant application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The judges found out their actual will, no foreign influence, made their decisions voluntarily. The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the application for resignation be dismissed from the posts of judges: the Court of Appeal of the Zubarev District of Lviv, Catherine Petrovna; The Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Hripchenko Larissa Grigorovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, vote. Please, Yuri Odarchenko. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u128	Tell us, please, of the materials that Kiriev was assigned to the Pecher Court, we saw that there was no competition, no examination, no exams. In fact, he was assigned on the basis of a single document, which is his application to President Yanukovic of Ukraine. Are you going as the Supreme Council of Justice to respond to the dismissal of this judge as an illegally appointed judge? Are you going to investigate this issue in order to inform Ukrainian society that Judge Kiriev was an illegal judge who was wrong about his appointment?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u129	Thank you. I can explain that this question relates to the knowledge of the High Qualifying Commission and the Presidential Administration regarding the horizontal transfer of the judge. As for his admission to office when he was first appointed, there were no violations on the part of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u130	Thank you. There is a motion for a vote to be passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges. [[Registration number 10186]] Please vote. [[13:08:27]] For 257 Decision taken. Draft regulation 10186-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u131	According to article 126, part five, paragraph 5, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Justice proposes that Volvenk Alexandre Ivanovich be released from office as Judge of the Hellenic District Court of the Hersonian Region, in connection with his violation of the judge’s oath. Is the judge present?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u132	Yes, please, the more there are letters and references. If you have any questions, dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u133	I can tell you why. In connection with his violation of the judge’s oath, namely, for violating his employment, he was excused, for leaving without consent of the court, for refusing to take legal action, for creating a conflict in court, for failing to comply with his duties, for failing to declare his income, and for committing a financial obligation. It should be noted that in this court today we are making a proposal regarding three judges. The court is actually paralyzed by acts, illegal acts of these judges, who are actually sabotaging work in court. This problem is of a lasting nature. Since 2007, all the judicial authorities have concluded that the judges have violated the oath and tried to question the issue of liberation. The Higher Council of Justice has repeatedly considered this issue. But what we see today is that, in the interest of continuing to bring justice to citizens' access to justice in this court of justice, there is no other way in which these judges are released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u134	Please, Vladimir Stretovich, if there is a question to the judge or to the reporter. Please, the microphone. Well, yeah. Oh, there's no card of yours. What card should I give you? Maroustenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u135	Volodymyr Stretović, Christian Democratic Union. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you've been a witness and all my colleagues, as we've been here in Parliament for a long time dragging Johnishchuk to the judge. And here are three judges from one court, think about it, three judges from one court are accused of asking for a vacation, and the head of the district court, who is the direct supervisor, didn't give them that vacation. They themselves, the judges who are entitled to leave, went on this vacation and, as a result, all three of them fell under the vengeance of Johnishchuk. On February 27, Johnishuka was held in bribes for $100,000. I see political subtext here and I would very much ask my colleagues not to rush over these judges. Because three judges at the same time from the same court, as they explained to me on my own. They simply refused to follow Johnishuk’s instructions. And so, with the hands of the Higher Justice, the State Institute keeps accounts with them. I would suggest that we consider this separately. Once again, assign the High Council of Justice and listen directly to the judges what they will say at the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u136	So it's the judge next to the microphone. Please, Alexander Ivanovich Wolvenko. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u137	The distinguished people's deputies, the charges against me and my colleagues have been fully falsified as revenge for refusing to comply with the criminal orders of the President of the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Ivanishtuk and the President of the General District Court of the Herson district of Kalimbeta. After I refused to comply with these criminal orders aimed at mocking the Ukrainian citizens of Ivanishuk with the help of their subordinates, they secretly fabricated, falsified reports against me and my colleagues. And these reports were used without any verification for the prosecution of honest judges who actually interfered with Ivanishku and Kalimbeth. Throughout my work, I have been in legal practice for 20 years, and for 16 years I have served as a judge in the Court of Genius. There were no complaints against me from citizens for violating their rights. I've never deviated from breaking the laws, but, thank God, I didn't comply with any of the orders of criminal Ivanichuk, which is why I'm standing before you right now. And please, in your hands, my destiny, but I have not followed these criminal orders of either Ivanitchuk or Calimbeth, I will not continue to carry them out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, please listen. Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u139	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Judge, well, I'd like to ask you to speak English. I hold the Constitution, and to you and the President there is a requirement to know the language. That's what I wanted to do in your defense, but I didn't like your first word. But what it leads to is the head of the High Council of Justice. There are nine reasons in the Constitution for the dismissal of a judge. Well, I don't know if walking can fit into this framework of the Constitution, it's something else altogether. If there's a problem, the judge can't be freed for a walk, you know. The judge's place of work is where the judge's head is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u140	Thank you. I want to point out that the judge's refusal to do justice is a violation of an oath. So when we talked about the violations allowed by this judge, we're going to make it clear to all of you that you're citizens, too. We talked about all the violations committed by the judges and what resulted from this situation. With regard to the work of Johnishuk, I would like to point out that the competence of the head of the Court of Appeal does not apply to the issue of leave, it is the competence of the head of the court. And the head of the court must be, in accordance with the approved schedule, do everything in order for the court to act and people to realize their constitutional right to leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u141	Valerius Beales, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u142	Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, has the impression that the stability of the court’s work is more affected by the personal ambitions of each judge and the interpersonal relationship between them. Therefore, I believe that the proposal and decision of the High Council of Justice is only faithful and that it needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u143	Is there no other comment? Dear colleagues, then I put to the vote the first sentence of the High Council of Justice on the adoption of Supreme Council Resolution 10186-1 on the dismissal of the judge. [[13:15:52]] For 253 Decision taken. Now draft regulation 10186-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u144	The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 5, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, proposes to release Skinder Alexander Anatoliyovich from office as Judge of the Hellenic District Court of the Hersonian Region for similar reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u145	Any questions to the judge? Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u146	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Now there's a proposal that there's a personal ambition here. There's no personal ambition here. We have worked for 8 years in conditions of repression and abuse. For eight years, we've been in detention, we've been in court for eight years, and we've been claiming open crimes against us. The decision of the High Council of Justice is based on the frank falsifications that Johnishchuck and his subordinate, Kalimbeth, have made in order to get rid of us as honest judges. In 20 years, I had no comment, no complaint, no responsibility. If you think that judges who don't take bribes who don't pick citizens who don't obey criminal orders don't belong in the judicial system, please, that's your decision. But all of this will be known not only in Ukraine but also outside it, because our cases, where the judiciary prevents us as citizens from defending their rights, are already being heard in the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u147	Please don't do blackmail. You've expressed your position, don't engage in blackmail. What is this blackmail that will be known. That's your right, but there's no need to blackmail. That's right, but there's no need to blackmail. I'm voting on a motion for a Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the release of Judge 10186-2. [[13:18:27]] For 254 I'll take the order. Next draft of Decree 10186-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u148	According to article 126, part five, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Higher Council of Justice proposes to release Stebkovy Jury Alexiyovich from office as Judge of the Hellenic District Court of the Hersonian Region on similar grounds, which have just been announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u149	Yuri Alexiovich, please. Yes. Please, what can you say about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u150	Dear Head, honourable people's deputies, I ask you to pay attention to the fact that I wish to reiterate that all the facts are falsified, they have not been verified by anyone. There have never been any complaints against us of a Ukrainian citizen's violation of their rights. We have never been drawn to any kind of responsibility. We did not violate the Constitution or the law. There is no question of any leave. The only thing that matters is that it is only a falsification of these vacations on paper. Everything was in accordance with the law. It's just revenge for not following criminal orders at the time we worked until today. And taking advantage of this one last time, I am simply asking, if possible, to thank those thousands of people who have come out, who have supported us in the city of Genieska and in the genetic area of this massacre against honest people. It was thousands of people who came out after the Supreme Council of Justice had decided. They know we're honest people and we're gonna stay that way in history. And today in Clean Thursday, I want to say this again, if you don't believe us, I ask publicly, using any institutions, to verify these facts. And you will see for yourself that we are honest people. We refused to take bribes, so that's the only reason we'll never do it. That's why I'm asking you to pay attention. It'll be in history forever, our behavior. We will always be honest people without a decision. May I have your attention, please? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u151	Strutovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u152	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to explain on this point. I want to point out what.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u153	Volodymyr Stretović, Christian Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, MPs! If you read the application carefully, all three of them were written exactly the same as under the copier, as if all three had conspired to be in one organized group, and they did not go to work anyway. All of this shows that the mere authority of the judiciary is reckoned with by those who disobeyed the command. Is not the example of Johnishuk, a briber caught in the heat, a reason to examine these facts again? This morning, four of the Geneva voters are calling me, "Protect our judges! They're not guilty of anything!" There a special judge named Calimbeth was appointed to deal with them. Some protested, as a result, with their cheeks. The trouble is that the Supreme Council's decision will not be taken by the court, because the Supreme Council's decision is not disputed. And they're essentially going to be unemployed. Let this remain on your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u154	Please, Sergey Upper. One minute, they'll be out in a minute, then. Sergey Podgorny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u155	Dear voters! Upstairs, the faction of "Timoshenko the Block of July" is "The Fatherland." I feel like what's going on right now is a lesson from the power of the judges who are being appointed today. If you do not act as the authorities say, your participation is the participation of these three judges. I'm sorry, reporter, name one fact in every court with a name that filed a complaint on which case. And, Your Honor, I'm asking you to name one fact specifically which criminal order you think you've given, and you haven't carried it out. Then everything will be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u156	Please, who else is insisting on the performance? I can't see. Please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u157	I would like to point out that, according to the mandate of the Supreme Court in 2007, when Onopenko Wasil Vasilovich was on board, a check was carried out to establish systematic violations by the judges of the Hellenic District Court of the Herson District of Strebkov, Shkinder, Volvenk of the requirements of law and the oath of the judge. Then the Council of Judges was appointed with the same determination. That's the same thing in 2008. In 2008, the Zaporez County Qualifications Commission. In 2010 it was again a qualified commission. The Higher Council of Justice has dealt with these questions several times. We rejected the proposals of a qualified commission, a judicial self - government body. And only after the possibility of settling a permanent conflict had been exhausted has it been decided that, in the interests of the citizens, there is no other way in which judges who do not comply with legal requirements and do not swear to the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u158	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u159	Dear people's deputies, I reiterate that no citizen has complained against us. These are all statements made by subordinates working in courts led by Kalembeth and Ivanichtuk. Simple citizens have not filed any complaints about our actions. On the contrary, they went to a demonstration, collected thousands of signatures, cried after the decision of the Supreme Council of Justice. That is not true, our issues were not dealt with at the Supreme Council of Justice. The procedure was not followed, the question was not considered, and we could not take advantage of it. We are not even allowed, the only ones in Ukraine, to go to court and defend our rights. You know what you're doing, don't you? We are denied the right to appeal, we are not granted, we have the claim, and others are resisting. We cannot even disprove the false information. We are told that the Supreme Court said that this was not provided for in Ukraine, just for the three of us. Do you understand? That's the question, it wasn't a study.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u160	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u161	On the orders, they were orders for unfair decisions in cases. Like, call it, just name it? I can call it. One thing I was ordered to do, I'm speaking for myself right now. This is a civil case, a reasonable, such plaintiff, who asked Ivanitchuk himself to take over another citizen and collect the property for the benefit of that citizen. I refused to do so and considered it by law. And there were no claims against me even the parties, because they knew that I was only dealing with cases legally and fairly. People didn't even tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, imagine the situation. A briber comes to the judge, he brings bribes, he refuses. And he had to make arrangements in accordance with the law, inform the law enforcement authorities, and start criminal persecution against the person who gives him bribes. We have dealt with these issues dozens of times on the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u164	Yes, yes, please, I beg you all to calm down! They're all here. I'll put the ruling to a vote, and you'll vote. Draft decision, you make a decision. It's a bill of passage that's put to the vote as a ruling on the dismissal of the judge. [[Registration number 10186-3]] [[13:26:31]] For 237 Decision taken. Please. I don't have a computer, so look for yourself, please. Let's do the factions. Please. Now it's working. I declare: Region Party – 179, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 25, People's Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, non-party – 10. All of it. I'm asking you to calm down. Please draft regulation 10186-4.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u165	The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that Dacenko Love Ivanovna be released from office as judge of the Land Court of Zaporez Region in connection with her 65 years of age. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u166	A motion for a Supreme Council ruling on Ukraine is put to the vote. Take it off the vote. Please, what's your last name? Velizinski. You go to work so often, I don't even know you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u167	Thank you. I have a question for the head of the High Council of Justice, please tell me, and if you can give an example of at least one, how many courts have applied for the bribes offered to them? In our country in the last five years or in the last year, perhaps. If you have such examples, please give them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u168	I don't have those numbers, but there are.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u169	A motion for a Supreme Council ruling on the dismissal of a judge is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10186-4]] [[13:28:43]] For 258. Decision taken. 10186-5, project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u170	The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that the Golden Faith of Constantine be released from office as Judge of the Kirov District Court of Dnipropetrovska in connection with the application for resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u171	I'm betting on a motion for a Supreme Council ruling and a judge to be released. [[Registration number 10186-5]] [[13:29:22]] For 248 Decision taken. Project Regulations 10186-6.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u172	The Supreme Council of Justice proposes to release the judges of the Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal, Gorbenko Catherine Panasovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Anakiyev City Court of the Donetsk district of Shulženko Ludmila Borisovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Yellow District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk district of Cmel Olen Leonidivna, in connection with the application for a release from office at your own request; Beechka District Court of Ternopil district Schwauk Galin Vasilovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Kieva Katrich, Master Court of the City of Valencia, Sergiyevna, in connection with the application for resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u173	Please turn up the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u174	Deputy Podgorny, faction of "The Yulia Block Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, are these judges present in the hall or not? If they are present, I would like to hear those judges who have applied for their resignation. What is the reason why they resign? This is especially interesting for those judges who work in the Donetsk region. Are not those judges who might shed light on the cases that have been handled, on condition, representatives of organized approach groups? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when it comes to the appointment of a judge, it is essential to be present when it comes to dismissal if he shows that desire. That's why I don't see a problem here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u176	This is usually the case for those who have reached the age of 65 and have the right to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote to be passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges. [[Registration number 10186-6]] [[13:31:34]] For 248 Decision taken. 10186-7 project, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u178	The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, part five, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 106 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, articles 27, 32 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, proposes to release: Andreyev Pavel Fedorovich of the post of Judge of the Dobropil Regional Court of the Donetsk Region in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment against him. The crime envisaged in article 368 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is the receiving of bribes. Convicted under five years of imprisonment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u179	Who's asking? Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Andrew Kozemyakin will tell me, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u180	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u181	I couldn't just raise my hand. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to say to all of you that just 30 minutes ago, in Italy, in Rome, our colleague, the head of the party organization in Kharkiv district of Mr. Habakkuk, was released. And we thank the Italian court, the femidi of justice, which can really show an example for Ukrainian courts and judges, as we really need to deal with these matters objectively. So once again, I would like to point out that 365 articles, followed by both Mr. Habakkuk and the article condemned by Julia Timoshenko, Yvashchenka, Lucenka, are a Stalinic article and an article used by authority for political repression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! There is a motion for a vote to be passed by the Supreme Council on the dismissal of the judge. [[Registration number 10186-7]] [[13:33:39]] For 252 Decision taken. Draft regulation 10186-8, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u183	The judge, for the first time on the Supreme Council, does not appear, asks that the hearing be postponed. Please support the delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! There's a corresponding telegram: "For a meeting scheduled for April 12th, I can't come, I'm at a hospital in Corestinsk. " I propose to support the proposal of the head of the High Council of Justice and postpone consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u185	First time. It was the one-family. It is a person who abuses alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u186	Please, Vladimir Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u187	Volodymyr Stretović, Christian Democratic Union. Corestine is my Motherland. And if, in the first case, the citizens were looking to protect the judges, then here's the reverse. Because they said that Rafalsky had long since ceased to be a judge, he had discredited the high rank of judge not only by his decisions in court but by his conduct around the court. So the question is he's just simulating, he's just not coming to the meeting, but I'm thinking, "How many balls are there, anyway, the end is coming." And, of course, if he's in the hospital and the Council of Justice confirms that he's in the hospital right now, then the time that we're going to look at this is essentially just the Labour legislation doesn't allow us to release him. But this judge deserves to be released for what he does directly at his place of residence and at the place where he performs his duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, let's go according to you. Well, please, Sergey Upstairs, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u189	Upstairs, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we have had cases where we have considered the issue of absenteeism and dismissal, especially if this is very objective. Moreover, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have just said to me that the appointment of the judge is mandatory and the dismissal is not mandatory. So I don't understand why we can't vote now if we've just voted for the absence of judges on their release. So I'm asking you to vote right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you in such an act the question of not seeing any deception and all that. It's just that if a person wants to come and give a message, then we're putting that question on the table. I've read you the document this time, and now we're going to listen once again to the position of the High Council of Justice, and as such, we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u191	The point is that we have the appropriate decision of the Supreme Administrative Court on this matter. And for the first time, when there are valid reasons for a judge not to appear, it is a violation of his right to take part, and it has led to the annulment of the Supreme Council's decision. So I'd like to ask, let's bring it to the next meeting and look at it essentially. We won't change our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u192	The offer is understood. Well. What else are we gonna talk about? Please, Ganushkak. Now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u193	Gentlemen, we need to see that this is a public person, a judge. We've had cases like this all the time, and it's like, you know, there's something going on, and it takes a couple of weeks to get it done, and then you retire. And for that. You know, in a post like this, at any time in the hospital at any moment of the day, you can still pull, pull. Justice must be done here. If there is a need to amend the legislation according to which public individuals are exempt from office by such a decision, regardless of whether they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are, they are not sick, they are not sick. Let's make suggestions, we're ready to support. But it is not normal for a person to be physically unable to do justice long ago, but it is really up to him to be in the right area, and we cannot make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u194	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u195	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I do not know what principles the opposition is guided by, but most are guided by European, democratic principles. On the basis of the highest humane considerations, we propose to support the proposal to postpone consideration. I think it'll be European, it'll be democratic and humanely correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I take your knowledge of what the Head of the High Council of Justice has said. If the question of the dismissal of a judge is settled, as it were, and if he was not present, the court has already determined that he is restoring such persons to work. If you need a process, let's talk about it. Or just talk, I didn't see, I didn't know, I didn't hear the judge. And to talk to you, that's the right. Or let's take it, then cancel it. So I propose to support the offer of the head of the High Council of Justice. Put it down. The second time he won't show up, make a decision and that's it. Let's put it down. Project Rule 10186-9, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u197	According to article 126, paragraph 5, of the fifth part of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Justice proposes that Tischok Mikola Fedorovic be released from the office of judge at the Obolon District Court of Kiev in connection with his violation of the judge’s oath, namely, for unlawful application of security measures, for the satisfaction of the ad hoc claims of military pensioners for the recalculation of pensions, i.e. for non-court applications, and for the collection of significant sums from Ukraine’s State budget. The rulings of the judge were carried out by the Kyiv District Military Commission, which resulted in damage to the State to a particularly large extent. This tells us about what was going on, and a pension was being set up for people who had no right to do so. A criminal case has been violated in relation to these events and investigations are being conducted, now in court, regarding the decision to be made unlawfully. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u198	Thank you. Any questions? Please, Velizyanov. Velizinski, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u199	Sergey Velizanski, faction "BUT" - "The Fatherland." Can you please tell me he's not here today, that judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u200	Yes. There he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u201	Oh, there is. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the judge? Do you need to express your point of view? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u203	Can I turn it on? So on February 21, the Supreme Council of Justice decided to make a submission to the Supreme Council. This is a decision I have brought before the Supreme Administrative Court. Today the case was being considered, and when the judges learned that today's meeting of the Supreme Council on my question, they announced 15 minutes for the first recess in order for me to be able to accept today, here to be present. They announced a break on April 19th. So I'm asked to postpone the case, not the case, but the matter, before the Supreme Administrative Court decides. Then everything will be in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u204	What are you appealing about? If there is no decision, what do you appeal for? To the decision of the High Council of Justice?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u205	Yes. I appealed the decision of the High Council of Justice to the Supreme Administrative Court. There was a meeting today. For the first time in 15 minutes, the Supreme Administrative Court of 5 judges announced a recess until April 19.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u206	Please, Upstairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u207	Upstairs, the faction of "Timoshenko the Block of July" is "The Fatherland." I have a question of that. If I understand correctly, this judge made a decision to increase. Please tell me, who determined that this was wrong? What organ?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u208	I'd like to point out that the decision was in the appeal appeal, that it is credible that the executive letters have been written, and that no decision has been taken on them. In fact, the judge gave a pension to persons who had no right to do so. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u209	Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u210	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Please tell me, how many of these cases were there, and what categories of the population were there, who asked you to recalculate your pensions in court?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u211	There were a lot of things, like over 600. No one overturned these decisions. There was a misunderstanding about these decisions. These decisions were not enforceable. As they have done, I have nothing to do with it. This has been ongoing since 2005, and has been closed, but later it was reopened separately and stretched until February 21, this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u212	Please make an offer to the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u213	I'd like to point out that the High Council of Justice conducted a test. We were familiar with the original decisions and copies of the implementing documents. It is well established that those who did not have the right to receive a pension on the basis of decisions rendered by the judge received an illegal pension, were deprived of a pension, and given to someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u214	So what is your suggestion: To consider the question or to put it aside?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u215	The offer to consider. And the appeal to a court is not the basis for deferring the proceedings in principle by the Supreme Council, and this is provided for in the Administrative Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u216	There is a motion for a vote to be passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the dismissal of a judge. That's enough, that's enough! "The release of a judge." [[10186-9]] Well, please, don't abuse me, please. Why are there double standards? Five people came up with double standards. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, fear God and think what you are saying. Please, calm down. [[13:45:04]] For 224 The decision is not taken. The question is referred to the following plenary week. Project Decisions. [[10186-10]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u217	The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be dismissed: the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Kalenchenko Nina Alexandrovna, in connection with the submission of a statement of resignation by the President; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Maceluha Petra Semenović, in connection with the application for resignation; Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Savranska Tetjana Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Lubomal District Court of the Volin district of Doroš Petr Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Kalu District Court of the People's Republic of Ivano-Frankiv region of Beyk Mikhail Andriyovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u218	Please, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u219	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have a question. The previous judge was put to a vote on the release, yes, and did not vote. So why is it moving? Overruled.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u220	And because the law provides that we are reintroducing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u221	Oh, please, please, but this submission is already under consideration, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, we haven't made up our minds. Let the High Council of Justice consider the matter once again. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote a motion for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on the release of judges. [[Registration number 10186-10]] Please vote. [[13:46:58]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome, on your behalf, the judges whom we have chosen to serve on an untimely basis, and to thank the judges who have served the appointed terms honestly and now, from objective circumstances, we have decided on their resignation, and to wish them health and success. Dear people's deputies, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik, please. Oh, I'm sorry! Let's hear it again. Please, we'll listen to the head of the Counting Commission. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u223	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, allow me to announce protocol number two of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 April 2012. Present: Head of the Counting Commission, Deputy, Secretary, members of the Counting Commission They heard about the secret ballots for the head of the Court of Auditors. A secret ballot on the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors included the nomination of Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established. First. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who are recognized is 450. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 260. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote is 257. The number of invalid ballots is zero. The name, name and surname of the candidate is Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich. The number of votes cast as candidate is 243. The number of votes cast against the candidate is 14. According to article 85, paragraph 16, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 10 of the bill on the House of Accounts and chapters of the seventh Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Counting Commission decided to consider the head of the Court of Auditors to be Magut Roman Mikolaiovich. The signatures are the heads of the Counting Commission, the deputy, the secretary, and the members of the Counting Commission. There is, at the same time, a separate opinion by the deputy of prison. So, during the vote, our colleague Simonenko was unconfirmed. The commission decided, after meeting, to allow for a vote on the basis of the personnel management manual. Help is so present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u224	Honorable National MPs, the head of the Counting Commission reported. Everybody calm down. Let us welcome the appointment of the head of the Auditorium of Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich. All your personal, special thoughts, please, in writing, and the protocol will be. They were not written in writing. Form, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go to. The decision of the Supreme Council to appoint the head of the Cell of Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich will be drawn up in accordance with the Rules by an appropriate decree. We're continuing our consideration of the KPC. Please. We have a 1340 amendment, they don't insist. Next. 1345, Sergey Sass, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u225	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues are known to have three whales in the evidence system: eyewitnesses, material evidence, and documents. To some extent, expert conclusions can be added to this category. What is suggested in this article? This article introduces some confusion into the legal and evidentiary activity, i.e. procedural documents are proposed to be confused with documents that provide information on crime. As a result, all of this gives the craziest conditions for all kinds of abuses, so, dear colleagues, I propose the item that begins with "materials" and the word "proofs" delete from the text of this article. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u226	Amendment 1345 is put to the vote to support it. [[13:53:11]] For-92 Correction not supported. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u227	1346, Savechenko, does not insist. 1347, Kiwalov, no. It's 1348. It's just that Sass was a good agitator, so that's what we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u228	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome my fellow airmen on the global day of aviation and cosmonautics, and the day of the missile industry. As far as the amendment is concerned. We've already accepted, more specifically, what you've accepted is that we may have a case of anonymity, reporting, stimulating a knock-out called in Ukraine, which is going to be done, by the way, in order to destroy the final Ukrainian society. And now what lies at the base, once again, a duplicate document, a document produced in the same way as the original could be recognized by the court as the original document. We know how the packages of such duplicates, in the form of originals, were brought before the Pecher Court, which had absolutely nothing to do with the dispute from Yulia Timoshenko, but were nevertheless recognized as material evidence. Therefore, this cannot be done in any way. I propose that this article be ruled out at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u229	Thank you. 10349. It's the same. 50th. Sweden. Is he insisting on arguments? Please, Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u230	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to add something to my colleague's argument. The point is that the bill of the Criminal Procedure Code proposes to compare the original of the document to its duplicate, and more specifically, to give the court the right to the court, in any case, to acknowledge the duplicate of any document as the original. You know, it's completely wrong. So I think that these provisions of the law should be removed from the draft Criminal Procedure Code. I'll tell you more, you know, we can get to the point where we can give the court the right to determine that a person is alive even though he's dead. That's the whole point of this right here. I want to remind you once again that our actions are aimed at only one way to improve the quality of this very important document. It is proper to protect the rights and freedoms of our people. That's why I'm asking you to remove this bill from the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u231	It's 1348th, 1349th and 1350th. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:15]] For-41 Not supported. 1351s and 1352s are similar. Please, Sweden. Microphone. Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, your microphone is on. 1352.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, I'm just supporting this assignment. I think there's absolutely no need for extra motivation. Please delete 5 items from.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u233	1351st and 1352rd vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:57:11]] For-19 Not supported. 1355. Are you insisting on Moses? No, it's not. Yes, Kiwalov. Thus we can vote on the 99th article. Moses, please don't sleep, 1355.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u234	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. I woke up, Adam Ivanovich. 1355. article. What's this about? When the parties present the court, everyone has it. a bag of documents, and there are cases where all documents are difficult to bring to court or investigate, the project allows you to compose, generalize, extract from those documents. But there may be a need to examine them all. It says here that only at the request of the court are the parties required to provide complete documents. So we say there's no point in court here. At the request of a party, either a charge or a defense. The court is impartial. They demand documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u235	It's 1355th on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:58:32]] For-27 Not supported. Yeah, 1357th. Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u236	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! One such thesis, which very often occurs in the media when the draft Criminal Procedure Code was presented, was that the Code was extremely progressive, since it provided maximum opportunity and equality for the parties to the trial. And my right is to give the trial participants really different possibilities. It implies that the party is obliged to give the other party the opportunity to examine or copy the originals of the documents that are required by this article. So the point is that both the prosecutor and the defense have to provide each other with appropriate documents that can be used in court as evidence. And who can either confirm the charges, or vice versa, challenge them. It's totally on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u237	1357 votes. [[14:00:05]] For-21 Not supported. Article 99 is being voted on. Please vote. [[14:00:24]] For 248 Supported. 1359 amendment, Shishkina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, I will not be tired of telling you every time that the actual circumstances, things, information, documents, should be, to be admitted to evidence only in court. It's not the jurisdiction of any investigator or prosecutor or of any other party, it's the sole authority of the court and it's one of my rights, many. Which is aimed at eliminating this poor standard so that evidence can be evidence only in court, in order for them to be things. This is another amendment from the cycle of many and the next one will be the east, and I will insist on them each.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u239	1359 votes. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:01:25]] For 20 Not supported. Moses, 1360. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u240	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the point is that the parties to criminal conduct, and mostly the parties to the charge, have the right to remove evidence, documents, things. In practice, then, it is possible that tons of the company are exporting documentation and computers, paralyzing the business. And the worst part is, they can't wait for those things, not find them. It is suggested that I add to the text, which is correct so that the removal of items will be given to investigators, the prosecutor and the holder of the title will also be given a receipt. This is the essence of a proposal that is not political.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u241	1360 is on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:02:29]] For-28 Not supported. Yeah, the next y's on s1362 and 1363 are related. Shishkina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, this is once again one of my rights to evidence and things. I repeat that there can be no physical evidence at the stage of the pretrial investigation. He must be a thing. So once again, this is one of the important questions in the theory of proof. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u243	1362th and 1363th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:03:16]] For-23 Not supported. 1364 Stretović, 1365 Shishkina, similar. Shishkina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u244	The argument is the same as the previous two. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u245	It's 1364th, 1365th. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:03:48]] For 20 Not supported. 1366th, 1367th, 1368th, the same. Please, Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u246	Stratovic, Christian Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, dear reporter! Because it's clear that Shishkina's argument and mine, which is shown in the comparative table, is completely axiomatic, because evidence only becomes evidence when the court finds it. And before that, these are things that are to be examined. [[ratings]] And all over the text, you have to change. I'm saying that for the transcript. When the editors begin to rule, let the discussion take place on this subject, and the lawyers know that it only becomes evidence when it is recognized as such, something that was given for review. And here's the word "word proof," "magical evidence" in Russian. But that's wrong, you have to write, "The thing that's given to look at and quoted by the page to get to know." He can't be recognized as such, so he needs to be returned to his owner, as we ask in the previous edition. However, you do not want to hear what the lawyers have to say about your business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u247	1368th is Shishkina, please, because they are identical.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, I fully support the previous speaker. And once again, the evidence should only be in court. You leave the old, now active practice of assessing evidence at the stage of pretrial investigation. What are the new changes, the new philosophy of the criminal process?Oh, my God! Dear reporter, please give me your arguments! I've never heard them before. And one more, please. In Amendment 1369, the next one, which is counted, I want to listen to your arguments, because we're going to have to put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u249	1366th and 1368th vote, please. [[14:05:57]] For-45 I put it past 1367 because those two are identical. And now 1367 is Sass, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u250	Thank you. Sergei Sass, "BUT is the Fatherland." It is a pity, of course, that a completely professional amendment by Vladimir Romanovich Moysik was not supported. I propose that part four be supplemented by the words "in the case of concealment, loss or destruction by the party of criminal conduct of the obtained evidence or document, which is an important evidence to establish the truth, criminal responsibility comes." Respectful colleagues, like him, have a mass character. People are suffering from it. Because even investigators allow such, similar things. Do you understand? The next IMF, which has 30 cases, sometimes has to do things like this, but it's got to be criminal. Volodymyr. And now to you. When, though, Adam Ivanovich, will they tell us who is in the hall? From the Party of Regions in 32 people's room right now, and you're adopting this important revolutionary bill. To complete the theatre of absurdity, place behind the Chechtnut Box.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u251	In my opinion, more deputies. 1367 is on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:07:35]] For the 18th. Not supported. 1369th counted. They insisted on her confirmation. I'll bet 1369 a confirmation amendment. Please vote. [[14:07:58]] For 258. Confirmed. 1370 and 1371 are identical. Please, Shishkina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, if I have to tell you 100 times that things, information, documents, actual circumstances only become evidence in court, at least they have to become evidence behind the so-called new philosophy of criminal proceedings, then I will do it, I will give you 100 times an emphasis on that, and perhaps the 101st of you will come to one of you, especially to Mr. Portnow and the lawyers from the Bank. So I won't be tired of repeating that things have to be evidence only in court. They should be replaced throughout the Codex text, as described by previous speakers. All the words "word proof," the evidence in any difference should be replaced by the word "word" -- it would be consistent with the new concept of the criminal process, the new one you claim to be. And the next amendment I'm asking for confirmation, and I'm asking the honourable reporter to explain why he doesn't take the opposition's remedies into account, and this particular amendment he's taking into account. Please explain your motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u253	We're going to vote, but I'd like to point out that the reporter doesn't count or count, counts the committee. 1370th and 1371th are voting. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:09:30.]] For-51 Not supported. 1371 readjustment. It's on confirmation. Please identify yourself, vote. [[2:09:51]] For 257 Supported. 1373. Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u254	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” I want to speak to Elina Shishkina. Dear colleague, as is happening today in the Supreme Council Hall, even worse was the consideration of this bill on the committee. Eight or seven men hid, two hours later heads passed through the code, counted many things, many things undetermined, and put that mess in the Supreme Council Hall. If the opposition does not fully understand the code, I would like to say that there are fine lawyers in the Pariah region. I would like society to hear the debate on the law, the adoption of another constitution. Dear colleagues, what have your mouths shut?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u255	1373 the amendment shall be put to the vote. It is proposed to determine by vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:11:07]] For-13. Not supported. 1374th, Odarchenko. Don't insist. 1375th and 1376th are identical. Please, Shishkina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u256	Dear colleagues, I and this amendment will insist, because I believe that the authority of the investigator should not include, for example, the return of the document to the parties. These are paragraphs 2 to 4 of this article. Therefore, I propose that these powers be reserved for the prosecutor. And I'd like you to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u257	Amendments: 1375, 1376 are put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:11:59]] For-24 Not supported. Edited: 1377, 1378 — identical. Please, Shishkina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, once again, I don't know, maybe it's a thousand, maybe a thousand, I don't know, I don't remember, I repeat, "word evidence" has to be replaced by "things." This will fit in the evidence in the criminal process and the new KPC philosophy that you want to put on like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u259	Yeah, it's 1377th, 1378th vote. [[14:12:47]] For-42 Not supported. 1379th and 1380th are identical. Please, Shishkina. Okay. Then, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, I repeat, the evidence must be proved only in court. By the time of the trial, they are all things, information, documents, factual circumstances in the case, no more and no less. This is a common European practice. Why are you putting into new philosophy this project an old Soviet rudimentary? Please explain to the committee what was the reasoning for the committee at the meetings to reject such an amendment. They would actually improve your code. Explain, please. Give your word to your lawyers. I fully support Musik Vladimir Romanovich: there must be a discussion. You're discussing in society professionally between the opposition and the power you don't do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u261	Please, Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u262	Stratovic, Christian Democratic Union. In fact, I wanted to look at my double toe to argue why such stupidity did not count for a completely appropriate amendment. Look at the right column. The 9th paragraph raises the question of the fate of the evidence and documents given to the court. But they don't all become evidence, there are things going back, the courts don't accept them as evidence and they come back completely. But why are they already showing evidence here, you know? And we break the files, we waste precious time, we demand it, because it's easier to agree in this situation -- and it's absolutely right for the text, for everything. No, we're just standing there because the opposition is offering. Well, where are we gonna go like that?Oh, my God! Maybe we should get up and go, because the Bible says, "Don't throw the necklace in front of the pigs, they'll stay pigs and eat the necklace." That's not what I said. And it feels like that's what's going on. That's exactly what I'm saying today, on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u263	One Vladimir Mikolaiovich responds to another Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u264	Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, and the experts of the working group, and the committee asked for the Supreme Council to be appointed. Please contact your colleagues, but those 41, 28 votes are not enough to make that decision. You mobilize your supporters and put them to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u265	1379th, 1380th vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:15:33]] For-25 Yes, dear colleagues, take an extra table. Amendment 39. It's counted. Is there no objection? This is Sweden and the Oily. Yes, it's counted. Amendments 1382 and 1383 are identical. Again, it's about things and things. Well, please, Shishkina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u266	Dear colleagues, dear reporter! We're mobilizing our colleagues, and please mobilize yours. Ours are voting for our amendments, and why aren't yours supporting us? Perhaps because it was your direct direction? We know very well about the chart that your supervisor has, at the stroke of a hand that everyone votes on. So once again I repeat the substance of the amendment, the evidence has to be proved only in a court of law, and before that, they are things. How can you not understand that? And why do you not take into account the normal remedies of opposition that would improve and improve your code? Maybe because you're basically putting bombs under there. slow action, which then will you use against us? But do not think that they will not be used against you. Think about it, please, and take your share of your responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u267	1382, 1383 votes. I'd like to make a statement. I'm in. [[14:17:13]] For 20 Not supported. Yes, then we put 100 articles to the vote. Please vote. Sota. Let us all vote in a friendly manner, for more than five hundred are left. [[14:17:38]] For 247 Copy that. Moses, 1387.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u268	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich, they write quite faithfully what is the expert’s conclusion. Vladimir Mikhailovich, look at the same thing, can the investigating judge appoint an expert? Say it. Is it the court? It's not in the project, the parties, the prosecution's party for the state's money is assigning expertise. And on the side of the defense, you wrote: on contractual terms, here. What makes the court and the investigating judge look like an expert?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u269	Yes, 1387 articles are being voted on. the amendment. To confirm, yes, because it's considered editorially. [[14:18:36]] For-23 Not supported. Sass, 1388.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u270	Thank you. Deputy Sas, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear colleagues, I propose the first part of article 101 to rule out as, from the point of view of evidentiary law, the conclusion is the resolution part. I mean, the conclusion itself, not the description of the research. Dear colleagues, is this not understandable? Perhaps the person who wrote this was still in the first grade of law school smoking a criminal law in the toilet. You can't write things like that, Your Honor. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm serious. Can you explain something? We came from opposition, we say, we offer. Where is the discussion on your part? Adam Ivanovich, I ask you one more time, why isn't there a missing person in the room according to the 27th article? 40 people from the Party of Regions in the Hall vote in favour of 226. Stop this poor thing, how long can it take? What you're waving at, don't tell me there's more of them, count them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u271	This is not my responsibility. 1388 is voting. [[14:20:07]] For-27 Not supported. The next 1392 and 1393 were rejected. Moses, Sweden. Moses, would you please insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u272	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the absolute text that is in the right-hand column corresponds to the text that I propose, only they write "the statement should be based on the information." And I'm saying that the conclusion should be based on circumstances, and the expert should know the circumstances, not just the information they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u273	Please, Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u274	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I wanted to remind all of us once again that we are adopting this Criminal Procedure Code, not for the opposition or for the majority, we are adopting it for the Ukrainian society. And after his adoption, every single person will give us an assessment of who and how he worked on this codex. Our main task is to create a law that will secure the rights and freedoms of citizens so that there will be no lawlessness that is being created in our state. As for this amendment. I think it's quite obvious: an expert can't, expert conclusions can't be based on information, expert conclusions should be based on circumstances. That's perfectly clear, and it's in normal language. I'm asking you, Your Honor, let's go into some really professional discussion, what are we starting with with some politicization of this process? If you disagree with our regulations, tell us why. You can't just, you know, be so rude.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u275	1392th, 1393th vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:22:22]] For 20 Not supported. And, dear colleagues, we have 1389th, 1390th, 1391th partially counted. They're all the same. We need to vote for confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:22:50]] For the 10th. Not supported. 1398. It's a knock-off.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u276	The previous speakers have already said that we have an expert on money, and the investigation will obviously be for money, the court's verdict is known to be for money, too. It's a famous phrase from the movie "Spy in the Law" when a lawyer says, "How did I do it today." And the thief in the law says, "You made them today because I made them yesterday." You know, when evidence comes to the evidence base like this in part three of article 101: evidence that was given for research. Exploring What? Any analysis of the body’s physical waste or anything? So I'm asking you to make it clear that these should be data contained in criminal conduct materials. Then it will be right and complete. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u277	1398 is voting. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:24:10]] For-19 Not supported. Amendment 1400 and Amendment 40 in the supplementary table are identical. Please, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u278	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The right column, as the text of the law, suggests: "The opinion of an expert cannot be based on evidence that is recognized or may be declared inadmissible by a court." Here we are again approaching the thesis of Elina Shishkina. So the expert has something to admit to the evidence and appreciate in advance on which to base his findings? How does he know when the court finds any evidence invalid? Today he's conducting forensics for the investigator, for the prosecutor. You see, we are resisting the theory of evidence and evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, look at the 40 amendments to the extra table, it's counted and it's rejected here. So I propose to vote in favour of the 1,400 amendments and the 40 amendments to the table. Please vote. Moses convinced us, we vote. [[14:25:41]] For 264 The factions, please. Region Party - 183, Fatherland – 5, Our Ukraine – 5, Communists – 22, People's Party – 19, Reforms – 19, non-fractional – 11. Prokopchuk, 1405.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u280	Yuri Prokopchuk, Fatherland. With regard to the expert’s own findings, yes, which cannot be based on evidence that is or may be declared inadmissible by a court. This is the same thing that I'm going to talk to the movie again, from Popandopalo, yes, when they shared this box there, they said, "It's you, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me." One goes, the other goes. Thus, this part of article 101 provides. It needs to be ruled out at all – and this is my offer. Because I'm giving an example. Even the expertise that will be carried out for money, since it is bound under this code, will not be recognized as what will be. It'll be for the citizens. Other experts are written, painted, as they say, on their knees will be taken as evidence. And I'm bringing a parallel with the famous case again, from the illegal conviction of Timoshenko and the entire courtroom that the whole world has seen. When Ernst Young made a financial audit that was somehow not taken, and it was all told and explained, because it was proof that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u281	Yes, respectable colleagues, so the amendments here are 1401, 1402, 1403, 1404, 1405, 1406, 1407 and 1408 are identical. Sweden, please, 1407 amendments. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u282	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, a few hours ago we were so fruitfully engaged in the question of appointment and release of judges. It seems to me that it would be absolutely right in the rules of the Criminal Procedure Code to lay down such a rule that judges, prosecutors, investigators, or those procedural figures of the criminal process that have a bearing on depriving a person of the will to spend at least two hours in those cells where they intend to send a person who will previously be punished there. And that would have an extremely important effect. As far as I'm concerned, in the drafting phase of this bill, I suggested that this rule of law be removed. And I thought it was the right thing to do. But the committee did not support her, rather, an expert group. So Vladimir Mikolaiovich and I made another amendment that you voted on. I agree with this drafting of this part of the Criminal Procedure Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u283	The 1401s, 1402s, 1403s, 1404s, 1405s, 1406s, 1407s and 1408s are voting. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:28:57]] Z-11. Not supported. 1409th is to be determined by vote, please be determined. [[14:29:17]] For the Not supported. 1410th – Moses – also by voting. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u284	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Adam Ivanovich, look, "The expert's opinion is given in writing, but each side." [[is the right column]] What's "but"? That means "but," which may not be in writing. And the content of the article is that the conclusion is written for the issue of either party, or the charge, or the defence, the court can invite an expert to explain. What's "but"? I said, "The expert's opinion is in writing. For any party's sake, the court should call an expert for questioning." What's "but"?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u285	A proper "but," a written conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u286	"But" doesn't work here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u287	1410th vote, we define. [[14:30:24]] For-37 Not supported. 1413th - Moses, counted. Confirmed, 1413. [[14:30:50]] For -6 Not supported. Odarchenko, 1414. Don't insist. Yes, it's 1417. Don't insist. Yes, we have reason to vote on article 101. Please vote. Moses, vote, your amendment is counted. [[14:31:25]] For 265 1422, Gritzak. Counted. A vote is put to the vote. [[14:31:48]] For-0 Not confirmed. Moses, 1423. Please, the microphone. Determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u288	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Adam Ivanovich, the third and fifth amendments I made go through one. They're designed to improve the text technologically, so please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u289	The 1423 shall be put to the vote on the basis of a definition. Please. [[14:32:23]] For -8 Not supported. Odarchenko, 1424. Don't insist. Moses, 1425. Overruled. Don't insist. Yes, Prutnik. Overruled. Yes, Kiwalov, 1431. Determine by vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:33:03]] For-0 Let's put 102 articles on the vote. For. [[14:33:24]] For 265 Supported. And it's going to be chapter four. Please vote. [[14:33:44]] For 266 Grigorovich, 1432. 1433. Please, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u290	Vladimir Moisik, Party “For Ukraine!” Adam Ivanovich, this article systematically sets out the forms of criminal conduct. Only four or five were named: a protocol, a technical record, a record of a court hearing, and a rerecord of the technical and protocol records. But there are reports in the code at various stages of criminal conduct, such as suspicion, commission, trouble, material registry, decision, indictment, approval, judgment, and so forth. That these are acts that determine the stages of criminal conduct, why it's not written and they don't want to count.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u291	I'm voting on the 1433 amendment. Please vote. [[14:34:57]] For-26 Not supported. 1434 counted. 1435th, 1436th, 1437th, 1438th, 1439th, they're accounted for. Please. 1439 rejected, yes. After 1438, please report for confirmation. [[14:35:41]] For two. Although look, the 1438s, these are all we voted on, just like the 1439s. That's where they counted, that's where they rejected, that's a mistake. Article 103 is put to the vote. Take down the vote. Dear colleagues, we have passed all the 103 amendments, so I am voting. Please, Sweden. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u292	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I just want to remind you that Amendment 1434, it wasn't put on confirmation, firstly, and we didn't discuss it. And here's the thing. You take it. There's a table under your arm. 1435th, 1436th, 1437th, 1438th -- they're all exactly the same. They were simply rejected by the committee, the amendments made by these national deputies, and by the national deputies: Philippeenko and Pisarenko, who are absolutely similar, supported them. So I'm asking the committee to explain why Pisarenko and Pisarenko are supported by the same amendment, and Bondik, Kiwalov, is not supported. It's very important, but they're colleagues from one faction to make it clear to us opposition representatives. And once again, I'd like to remind you, dear fellows, turn your head and see what posters are written in the back. It applies to each of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u293	Dear colleagues! 1434, Victor Dmitrovich, I didn't vote because I said she was counted, no one insisted. Now you insist, so we'll be back. But here we're going to figure it out and you look at the table. It's all over the place, the Pisarenko amendment: "carrying information" and "carrying information on which," or plural. On the right hand side of the column, which is the main editor, it says, "the media of information on which.".. So is it plural or singular? Please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u294	There's an offer to go back and vote for support, that's 34th. And then let's see, if it matches, the editor, there's no objection to taking it into account, but where there's a set, there's no doubt to put it back on the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u295	Dear colleagues, I repeat. Unfortunately, on the right-hand side of one, so now if we're voting with you in 1434 and all of the next, the same thing as that, there's a set, then the right-hand column is not going to be carrying, but carrying, because clearly there's a plural of them. So I'm betting on confirmation 1434, 1435, 1436. Well, you know, there's a carrier, there's a carrier. There's a lot of words. Let's vote that this paper is going to sound like: "The media of information on which technical means are fixed procedural actions." Where there is a sentence in the text, that's exactly what we're voting for. Please vote 1434 and others. [[14:39:53]] For 262 Here, if you look at it, 1435th is true, 1436th is true, 1436th is a medium, not a carrier, but a carrier. 1437th is a stretcher. 1438th is a stretcher. And 1439th is also a stretcher. So you and I are voting 103 of the article in that paper, and once again, from the second part, it's probably going to be, "the media of the information on which the processual actions are recorded by means of technical means." Please vote. And thank you, Victor Dmitrovich, for your vigilance. Vote. [[14:40:46]] For 260 Copy that. Yeah, 104th. Huh? 103rd, we voted in 260 103rd. 104th article, we don't have to insist on 1442. Swede, 1443, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, I am confident that the vast majority of Ukrainian national deputies are very often present in foreign parliaments and see how the legislative process is built in these countries. And all wonderfully, all of them have often witnessed such events when laws are passed in the countries where we were with you. I think you can confirm that, for example, in a country's parliament like Britain or in the United States, even if these changes to one or two articles apply, there may be months of debate. We accept this enormous importance of the system document and we have no discussion. As for the amendment, I believe that in the case of a process in the course of a pretrial investigation, it seems to me that this fixation process should necessarily be overstated.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u297	Yes, thank you. Although I'm looking at a new one, it's for the committee. Here's 1441th, 1442th and 1443rd are the same amendments. At 41st, the 42nd Committee rejects the amendments, and after the 43rd Amendment of Sweden, it's going to be the hall, so now we're going to define the 1443rd with the hall. But I am paying attention to some mistakes. Please vote. The 1443s are defined. [[14:43:05]] For-7. Not supported. 1445 Karmazin, determine how to vote. I'm betting on the vote, 1445. [[14:43:26]] For 1 Not supported. 1447, accounted for. Sweden, 1453 was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u298	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u299	Don't insist. 1456th, accounted for. It's like 1455. What's that? Dear colleagues! 1455th and 1456th are the same thing, they're counted. You don't? I'll put 104 to the vote, please. "For" or whoever can. [[14:44:41]] For 256 We don't have any comments until 105. 105th vote article, please vote. [[14:45:06]] For 258. We vote in the 106th article. [[14:45:27]] For 255 1461, Sweden, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u300	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, is about being fixed by means of technical means of criminalization at trial. According to the article mentioned above, this is mandatory. However, if the trial does not involve participants in the trial, it is not necessary in this case to fix it. I think it's a colossal problem and a mistake. On the contrary, persons at court can for any reason, including for good reason, not appear and their rights must be adequately protected. In itself, the fact that these procedural actions, in which there are no participants in the process, are such powerful means of securing their rights, even though they are not. So I insist that the fixation be ensured, including if these participants are not present during these processions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u301	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u302	Victor Dmitrovich, with great respect to you. At the same time, why was it not supported? Because you have not formed this amendment, you have expressed your wish and purpose, but you have not formulated the amendment itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u303	Please, Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u304	Dear Vladimir Mikolaiovich, you know exactly what this is about, these are the conclusions of the Directorate of Justice of our European friends, so in the same way that the experts of the Council of Europe made their proposal, that's how we agreed with them that we included it in the table. This meant that at the time of the adoption of the Code, we should make this position definitively here in the Supreme Council. It boils down, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, to a very simple thing, to a second part of this sentence, to a more faithful second sentence of the disposition of this article, where the word is not fixed, the word association does not delete and then everything remains in place. Or a second sentence to remove and leave is definitely a fixation, and in this way we will grant the requests of our European colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u305	1461st vote. [[14:48:14]] For -6 1462, 1463 is the same. Determine by vote. I'm willing to vote on these two amendments. [[14:48:36]] For-7. The 107th article is about voting. Please vote. [[14:48:55]] For 251 Thank you. Don't get cold. 108 articles are put to the vote. Please vote. [[14:49:14]] For 257 Okay. Keep mobilising. 109th article puts to the vote. [[14:49:34]] For 257 1470th Moses, accounted for. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u306	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Adam Ivanovich, when I made an observation, was amended in 1433.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u307	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u308	Well, it was 1433 -- acts that were defined as criminal conduct. So he said there weren't all the lists. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, please take a look. That is, the decision of the prosecutor is taken in the form of a decision. Just, you see. And I'm telling you, questioning a witness is protocol, and you're leaving a protocol. Detaining a suspect by protocol remains a protocol. The review is based on a protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u309	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I think Vladimir Romanovich has convinced us. 1470th counted, 1471th counted. Yes, Moses, 1473, rejected. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u310	What about this one, this one?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u311	But it's counted, and this one you don't insist on. Thank you. So we're looking at 41 amendments to the extra table. It's counted. Is there no objection? Sweden, Oily. Yes, it's counted. 1475th partially counted. I'll bet on it. [[14:51:31]] For two. Not supported. 1476, accounted for. 1477, accounted for. Yes, the 110th article is about voting. Please vote. 1477, Behila. [[14:51:59]] For 254 Copy that. And chapter 5 is voted. Please vote [[14:52:20]] For 263 Yes, the 111th article is about voting. Please vote. [[14:52:44]] For 260 Supported. 1481, accounted for, Kiwalova. For confirmation. 1481 for confirmation. [[14:53:07]] For the four of us. Not confirmed. It's the 112th vote. Please be supportive. [[14:53:25]] For 260 Supported. And six chapters for the vote. Please vote. [[14:53:43]] For 263 Chapter 113, article 7. That's a good coincidence. Yes, 1483 is counted. For confirmation? I'm betting on confirmation in 1483. Please vote. [[14:54:17]] For 260 Counted. Yes, additional table 42 of the amendment. It's counted. For confirmation. Please, 42nd for confirmation, let's put an extra table. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:54:43]] For the 15th. Not supported. Moses is in 1484.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u312	We have to support her because she's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u313	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, please take a look at the right column. Procedural periods are those established by law. But a prosecutor, a judge, an investigating judge, has the right to change them within the limits of the law. The investigator himself is obliged to observe the time limits established by law. He can't change them. And you write that either according to the law, changed by the investigator, the word "investigator" is to be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u314	Various texts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u315	1484th vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:55:42]] For-12. Not supported. 1486th is Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u316	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! It says here that my readjustment is rejected, it's actually partially satisfied. And the point of my bill was that trial terms can be set not only by the prosecutor, but by both the investigator and the investigating judge. [[Court]] So what I'm saying is that this is exactly what was going on in my paper. The only thing that's not satisfied with this is that procedural periods set time limits. I think it's a mistake. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u317	Victor Dmitrovich, Victor Dmitrovich, we really are. Victor Dmitrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u318	Partly counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u319	We really counted it, but look, you gave a different interpretation. For example, "review periods" or "this isn't always time periods." So you didn't make this one clear, but we counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u320	Viktor Dmitrovitch is pleased that he is partially counted. Yes, thank you. Yes, Shishkina is 1489.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u321	Dear colleagues, well, you supported the 1483 bill, which did not leave the prosecutor with the right to set time and time limits, yes, within what are called procedural terms, and yet you have extended these powers to the investigator. I repeat that I was filing an appeal that wasn't satisfied, two days ago, which passed on the right to decide any matter concerning trial terms to a judge solely investigating. I'm a proponent of such an approach that it's the jurisdiction of the court. It's not the prosecutor's or the investigator's. I understand very well that now the Hall will not support my amendment, which I have proposed to deprive the prosecutor of such authority. But since you've not just given him the authority and given him the same authority as the investigator, I just can't understand what European standards are then, what new philosophy of the KPC project might be, if we don't have this power of attorney as well as other officials? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u322	1489th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:58:23]] For the 18th. Not supported. 1494th is to be determined by vote, Zabarsky. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:58:44]] For the four of us. Not supported. 1497 counts. Article 113 is put to the vote. Please be supportive. [[14:59:09]] For 257
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u323	43rd Additional Table.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u324	Yes, 114 articles, we have 43 amendments to the table. Insert 114 articles in a new edition. It's counted. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u325	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u326	So 114 is voted in a new edition as set out in Amendment 43. Please vote. Sweden, vote, your amendment. Thank you. [[14:59:54]] For 262 Copy that. Yeah, 115th. 1500 revisions counted. Yes. Now, now, now. 1502nd. 1501. Please, Sweden. 1501.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u327	Dear Adam Ivanovich, it's about calculating the procedural lines. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the previous order of 1500 Pisarenko and Pisarenko had been taken into account, and the hall confirmed this, and it was suggested that the dates might indicate the event. That's exactly what my assignment was about. Look at the last sentence in this direction, but it is pointed out that it is rejected. So I just want to point out for the transcript that my editing was partially satisfied, and now I'm asking that we announce a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-12-m0.u328	Dear colleagues, this is what we voted on, and we've come together to vote 114, and we'll stop at that. Because in the table there, look, it's already 115, but once again the comparison to 114, we voted it. So during the break, we're going to figure out technically what's going on here. Thank you for your fruitful work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. At 16 o'clock, we begin the evening before the victory.
