ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:41]] The 414 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 22 March 2012. 49 questions on the agenda have been considered: 7 laws and 41 decrees have been passed, 3 bills adopted on a basis, one bill has been returned for further elaboration of the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, three bills have been returned to the committee for further consideration, eight bills and two draft regulations have been rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals: 5 laws were passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, one law was intended to be drafted into a committee, one law was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been given a KPC project in order to have the opportunity to see this very important document within the next week. I'd like to do this job. Dear National Deputies, members of the Cabinet of Ministers are taking part in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Valérie Ivanovic Horoshkovsky. Honourable National MPs, two factions: the BUT faction – "The Fatherland", the "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" faction, in accordance with the Rules, require an opportunity to make a statement. The statement will be made by Andrew Cosemiakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u2	Good afternoon! Statement to the heads of foreign diplomatic representations in Ukraine from the "BUT" faction: "The failure by the Ukrainian authorities to enforce the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in the Yulia Timoshenko case." "On March 15, 2012, the European Court of Human Rights passed the first ruling in the case of Julia Timoshenko, who under court order 39 was obliged by the Ukrainian government to provide the ex-Prime Minister with adequate treatment, independent doctors in a specialized medical institution outside the Kachanov colony in connection with the threat of life. Even though Ukrainian high-ranking officials claimed to be obliged to comply with decisions of the European Court of Justice in Ukraine the previous day, we can see that Timoshenko’s decision is being openly sabotaged. A week later, the Ukrainian government took no steps to execute it. Julia Timoshenko continues to be in the Kachanov Correctional Colony without receiving the treatment recommended by independent German doctors. Moreover, the Ukrainian Security Service continues its daily investigations with Julia Tymoshenko on a number of groundless criminal cases, so-called the EESU case, closed by a joint decision of two Supreme Court Chambers of Ukraine in more than 50 judges in 2005. We consider such a situation to be a brutal violation of international law, according to which countries that have ratified the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights are bound by the decision of the European Court of Justice. We stress that failure to implement this decision takes place against the backdrop of the complete disregard for Ukrainian authority of the Parliamentary Assembly Resolution of the Council of Europe of 21 January this year. Despite numerous attempts by opposition factions to approve a special order in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the immediate implementation of the above-mentioned resolutions, this has not been done because of the parliamentary position of the majority directly subordinated to the President of Ukraine. Thus, the complete disregard of the recommendations and requirements of the European institutions is a reflection of the positions of Viktor Yanukovich directly. We find this fact unacceptable for a country that stands at the threshold of initialling the Association Agreement with the European Union. While upholding the right of the Ukrainian people to become part of a united Europe, underlining the importance of the process of European integration, we nevertheless draw the attention of the governments of European countries to the rapid pace of the collapse of democratic rights and freedoms in Ukraine and ask for every effort to establish justice in our country until the adoption of authoritarianism in Ukraine becomes irreversible. Ukrainian political prisoners Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko are to be released. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u3	Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. Is that why you're here? Please, Jaroslav Kenzier, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u4	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, with your permission, a brief announcement. At 12 o'clock today, there will be farewells to Athena Vasilovna Pashko at the Asold Grave Temple of St. Nicholas. I'm addressing all my fellow national MPs, who have a wish, for all those who knew, who appreciated Athena Vasilovna Pasko, at 11 o'clock, 30 minutes from the Supreme Council will be leaving the bus. Who has the wish, who has the opportunity, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u5	Dear National Deputies! Representatives of the MPs and groups introduced information to the Cabinet about the state of affairs in the agro-industry complex during the "hours of questions to the government". The factions of the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party, the People's Party and the parliamentary group "For the Future" according to part six of Rule 229 of the Rules were informed in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers of the questions they would like to be answered during the "hour of questions to the Government". Dear colleagues, the next order is proposed to hold an hour of questions to the government. The first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Valeriy Ivanovich Horoshkovsky, will answer the written questions to the government from the MP factions and groups. After that, I suggest that the deputies ask questions to members of the Cabinet of Ministers who are present in the cabinet of the government. No objections? None. Valerius Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! The "hour of questions to the government" came up with questions from factions about agrarian issues that could be compiled in three main ways: the state of preparation for spring-field work, the adverse weather conditions of this winter, which would affect fertility, and support measures, as well as a separate group of issues related to the so-called "sir conflict", and the measures to be taken by the government on this issue. So if you don't mind, I'm going to answer them in the same way, so I don't have to repeat myself on those questions that have been sounded by several national MPs at the same time. So what is the state of preparation for spring-field work today? Ukraine's monetary and food policies have begun to actively prepare for comprehensive field work in 2012 and additional measures have been taken to provide farmers with the necessary financial and material resources. Agricultural producers, together with executive authorities in places and scientific institutions, are carrying out continuous monitoring of winter crops and their phytosanitary status. As a result of the expected movement of crops, the structure of sown areas is being worked out, which is expected to expand corn crops into grains of bright wheat, bright barley, and others in 2012. Regarding the preparation of petroleum products. In the spring field, 381,000 tons of diesel or 93 percent of it was purchased as technology. I'm fine. Based on the transition remains, there are 801,000 tons of nutrients that have been morbidized or 89 percent before the application. In the West, plant protection. With a total need of 27.7 thousand tons, 18.3 was purchased. It's the lowest, 66 percent before the application, but that's 13 percent more last year, and that's where we work. By the seed. Seeds of bright grains and grains without corn were expected to provide 91,000 tons or 102 percent. In addition, farmers are fully equipped with corn, sunflower, soybeans, and sugar beet seeds. Questions about the impact of adverse weather conditions on crop yields. Of the 80.4 million hectares planted under the 2012 crop, 83.4 million hectares [7.3 million ha] of grain - bearing grains were given at an area of 7.3 million hectares, or 87 percent. Of these, about 63 percent or 4.6 million hectares are in good and satisfactory condition. Grassages of 0.6 million hectares, or 8.5 percent, were killed. In the area of 1.1 million, 13 percent, no stairs were received. For the last one. With average multi-year data, 60 to 80 percent of the weak and contiguous crops are subject to movement, which is over 1.1 million hectares. In spite of the large volumes of winter crop movement, within 3-3.5 million hectares, the whole grain wedge will be sown at 15.8 million hectares, which is at the 2011 level. So agrarians do not foresee a significant reduction in gross grain production compared to the previous year, which is projected to be between 45 million and 50 million tonnes, which will fully provide for internal consumption needs and save some potential for supply to the external market. "What measures are being taken by the Ministry to lift restrictions on exports of Ukrainian products to the Russian Federation?" Today, Ukraine is exporting its products to the customs territory of the Customs Union from 75 Ukrainian processing companies, including 19 milk processing companies, 15 meat processing companies, 4 poultry processing companies, 3 birds farming, incubating eggs, 13 fish processing companies and 20 food and feed companies. The Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food, together with subordinated services, has carried out work with Ukrainian processing companies — potential exporters of its products to the Customs Union countries to promote domestic food production in the Russian Federation market and members of the Customs Union. The market of Russia and the Customs Union is, of course, very important for Ukrainian producers, so they are interested in supplying only quality and safety products to the market. I want to point out that dairy producers are constantly meeting the requirements of the importing country, because compliance with them is primarily based on them. On the Ukrainian side, there was no violation of the export conditions, since the requirements of Ukraine and the Russian Federation were the same as those of production, cheese at the time. The procedure for exporting to Russia is more stringent than that of other countries in the world, actually at the request of the importing country. This is because the Russian competent authorities do not recognize the results of periodic studies established by Ukrainian legislation, which in turn leads to a study of each export party at some safety level. This creates difficulties for exporters, but the requirements of the importing country are protected by international law as mandatory. The study of each export party also creates discriminatory requirements for domestic Russian producers of products with a short storage period, as the study takes at least 72 hours and the implementation period can be 3-4 days. In order to improve the quality and competitiveness of Ukrainian animal products, a number of measures have been taken by manufacturers: the introduction of a quality management system for production and environment in the 88 milk processing enterprises of Ukraine and the start-up of work on 14 other enterprises, developed for milk production of 267 Ukrainian standards, including 30 sectoral standards of 1,095 technical conditions. Regarding the widespread conflict around Ukrainian cheeses, I would like to point out that in order to determine the quality of Ukrainian goods, research has been carried out on all parties manufactured in exporting factories and others from December 12, 2011 to January 13, 2012. Research was carried out by the Institute of Milk and Meat Technology and by the State Research Institute of Laboratory Diagnostics and Veterinary Expertise on the availability of fats of plant origin. Comparative studies have not revealed the content of vegetable fats. [[more than 300 samples]] It should be noted that the National Research Institute for Laboratory Diagnostics and Veterinary Sanitation is accredited by the German accreditation system and recognised internationally, taking part in a European inter-laboratory round. In addition, for the purpose of confirming all the results of the research, an inter-laboratory round is organized, and samples of raw materials are directed towards independent expertise to an international testing centre. Official research is currently expected, but according to previous data, the content of vegetable fats in cheeses has not been found. This is the Institute of Microbuck, Colorado, U.S.A. According to the official agreement of the experts of the Food and Agriculture Organization, the appropriateness of the formula of dairy products and the technically stated documentation of Ukrainian cheese-producing enterprises to Russia should be verified, and an assessment of the quality of raw material, the sanitary and epidemiological state of production was carried out. On March 13, 2012, Dervetfito sent an invitation to "Establishment", but only on March 20, a report appeared on the website of the latter about the intention to conduct an inspection on March 25. In the course of this issue, there is a question about the value of assessing the damage to our nation in the light of today’s supply of raw materials. With regard to the calculation of losses, there is not yet a single thought and method of calculating them. Specifying the total cost of raw materials not delivered to Russia is not a complete loss of goods. Of course, there is damage, but the figure will be much lower than the one in the question, which is answered in a question that says about $426 million. It's about global data. According to the State Statistics Service, 11.7 percent in January 2012 compared to January 2011, milk processed by 10.5 fat cheeses increased by 7.1 percent. This resulted in a decrease in the production volume of acid-moleph products, by 1 percent and acid-molephic raw materials, by 4.9 percent. Milk was used to produce raw materials in 2011 by processed enterprises for 1 million tons. In January of this year, about 372,000 tons of milk were processed, of which 35 percent were solid raw materials. Only milk and dairy products in the first month of 2012 remained a positive trade surplus of $19.4 million. According to the State Service, the exports of dairy products totalled 4.9 thousand tons in January of the year totalling US$ 35.3 million, which is less than or equal to US$ 15.4 million. 15.4 percent, sorry, less than or 1.7 thousand tons, than last January. The largest part of milk exports is still made up of cheese. Regarding the export of dairy products to the Russian Federation. I am informing you that during the 12 months of 2011, exports of dairy products to the Russian Federation amounted to nearly 81,000 tons, a total of $425 million, 13.6 percent more than in 2010. As for the business reputation of the national cheese producer, I must assure you that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has not made any unfounded claims. Immediately after appearing in the media, a selection was made of samples from parties produced simultaneously with those who were complained of by Rosustivnast. All of these samples were processed at the State Research Institute, the selection of samples was made from parties for both export and domestic government circulation. No cases of plant oil have been detected. A question related to the action of the Minagropolitics, which is planned to engage in a situation of possible price jumps during the sowing campaign. According to the Minagropolitics, the issue of providing farmers with material and technical resources, including oil products, has been repeatedly brought to the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers. Based on the meetings held in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in February and March of this year, a number of tasks have been undertaken by the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine regarding monitoring and measures taken to fill the market. At present, the market situation is stable. In the case of the creation of artificial fuel deficits in the Minneergogil market, NAC Naftogaz and Minagropolitics are working on additional measures, such as the supply of oil and gas condensate by farmers during the spring and harvesting periods of oil products produced by the Schebelin oil and gas-condensate plant of the Ukrgazopaz, as well as the purchase of additional diesel in the Russian Federation for domestic market. These measures will ensure that the oil market is resourced if its artificial deficit is created and prices are stabilized. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has decided to direct 300 million dollars for additional state support in the area of plant protection related to the move of winter crops in 2012. Support will be provided to farmers per hectare of crops, allowing them to determine their own direction of use, including the use of funds for the purchase of oil seeds or mineral fertilizers. "How are the initiatives of Minagropolitics and food initiatives being made towards finding new markets for exporting milk and raw materials to a domestic producer, and which countries are seen as the most likely partners for this kind of trade?" The external economic activity of the State is an important component of its economic growth. Today, production is actually providing the purchasing power of the population. This is evident from the fact that milk exports tend to grow. The trade balance for the dairy and dairy product group for the 12 months of 2011 was positive -- which was $512 million, and for the two months of 2012 it was $42.5 million. The largest part of exports is made up of cheese. Exports of Ukrainian cheeses were made from more than 16 countries around the world: Russia, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Egypt, Israel, Kyrgyzstan, Morocco, the United Arab Emirates, Panama, the United States, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and other countries. In recent years, the concept of traditional markets has changed significantly and has lost its meaning. Globalization is rapidly taking place, the world’s economic environment is changing, and markets are changing both inside and outside the country. Today, the Russian Federation’s markets are considered to be traditional for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u7	One moment, please. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules of Half an hour - written answers, half an hour - lips. What are you yelling at? I want to tell you again, calm down, please. Write your letters. Why don't you write? Dear colleagues, I have said that it is better to have this form of communication, but the MPs deny it because it is a violation of the Rules. The answer to the written questions will be completed - we will answer the oral questions. What are you yelling at? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! You will, indeed, be able to ask oral questions to the entire composition of the government that is present today at the meeting of the Supreme Council. The main countries to which Ukrainian products are exported are: Russian Federation – 16 percent, India – 7.2, Turkey – 6.7, Egypt – 6.6, Spain – 5.5, Saudi Arabia – 4.2, Poland – 3.9, Italy – 3.7, Netherlands – 3.6, Belarus – 3.1. Their total export share is 60.5 percent. During 2011, milk exports amounted to $593.3 million, or 4.5 percent, of total agricultural exports. The main countries, as I said earlier, to which milk products were exported during 2011 were: Russian Federation, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Azerbaijan, Iraq, Arab Emirates, Germany, Jordan, Armenia, Turkmenistan. According to the analysis, 90.5 percent of all dairy products are exported to SND countries. During the two months of 2012, 19.4,000 tons of dairy products were exported to total US$ 73.2 million, 19.8 percent less than the same period last year. During this period, the supply of milk, milk, and raw materials to the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan was reduced, resulting from the ban on imports of these products from Ukraine and the increase in quality requirements. At the same time, market diversification increased slightly during the last period, including increased exports of milk compressed to Cuba, Guinea, Tanzania, and Tunisia. In addition, the export of milk raw materials to Algeria, China, Korea, Kuwait, Singapore, and the Philippines increased. It should be noted that, in order to improve access to the external market for domestic production, the Ministry of Agriculture is doing the following work: it is actively involved in addressing the issue of access to the market for agricultural products of countries entering the WTO, and it is the interest of domestic producers to increase exports to these countries by reducing their customs duties. Negotiations are ongoing today with Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Algeria, Yemen, Laos, Lebanon. An agreement protocol has been agreed between Montenegro and Ukraine on the completion of bilateral trade-offs for goods and services in Montenegro as part of their entry into WTO. Takes an active part in dealing with the relevance of making free trade agreements with Canada, Turkey, Serbia, Syria, Singapore, Israel and Morocco, as well as in working out a new agreement between Ukraine and the Customs Union. And this work will allow Ukraine to facilitate the promotion of agricultural and food products to external markets and to increase exports. As a result of an analysis of the development of a contractual legal base with foreign ACP countries, the Ministry continues its work on initiating and signing inter-branch and inter-ministerial agreements that regulate further cooperation with other countries. During 2011, 15 international instruments were signed with foreign countries on bilateral cooperation in the APC area, including the PRC, Serbia, Korea. Ladies and gentlemen, these are all the basic questions. I ask you to turn to oral questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the questions directly to the members of the government. Please log in. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Please, who are you going to ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Valery Ivanovich! I'm talking to Valery Ivanovich. Now, in the Cabinet of Ministers, there's an Order on how to use a half-percent congregation to support hops, grapes and gardening. We have so many of these producers on the committee that today the Cabinet of Ministers has not defined this order. And you know what's going on in the spring, especially Crimean, Herson, Mikolayivsk, Odessa. And these speeches go on and on, as we in the committee are discussing this program. And somehow all the ministries, except for my information, supported that question. For some reason it is not taken to the Cabinet meeting and is not confirmed by this order. First question. I'd like you to expedite this procedure, because it's said that we have to make this decision in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u11	Please, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. Not in the microphone. Thank you for asking. The question? That we asked for order, more faithfully, in this order last year to see how these funds were used. Once we get the report, we'll establish a new order, it'll be soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u13	Basil Potapov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u14	Give it to Sukhima. Dried.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u15	Jaroslav Suhi, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Valery Ivanovich, I have a question with the Parisian MP not about the agricultural and industrial complex. Today, the critical state of the Zaporozhye mining and metallurgical complex is becoming increasingly catastrophic. No questions asked by the President of Ukraine or many appeals to the government have produced any results. And there's one reason. I stopped my job as an industrial unit. One reason is the disproportionate appetites of the Ukrainian energy monopolist monster, who daily imposes a price on the production of the metallurgical complex. The Zaporozhye Ferrosco plant is stopped. The state has already suffered nearly 1 billion losses in the budget, with damage and energy. Please tell me what the government can do to regulate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u17	Please, Valery Ivanovich. Microphone. I'm asking our system there, please include the microphone in the government's bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u18	I didn't hear the last sentence. Are you talking about electricity tariffs? About the price.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u19	Please, Jaroslav Suhi, microphone. Repeat your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u20	Valerius Ivanovich, the point is that the price of electricity for the steel complex is rising daily. This procedure started in 2008, and the authorities, we're moving on. The Contraband Aluminum Combine has ceased to exist. The Banished Ferrous Plant is a loss of nearly 1 billion in the budget and 10 million does not collect the local income tax, 32 million does not select the Pension Fund. On the verge of a stop, a casino company called Titano-Magnium Combine, Dniprostal, Zaporoztal, Coalcomposite, Ukrainian Graphite, Zaporozil Steel Plant. You know, it's not just a critical situation, it's catastrophic! There's an order from the President to hand over an electrical substation to a ferrous factory. Our energies, the impression that they live in their own country, are by themselves. This damage is unacceptable to our economy. I understand you may not be answering right now, but as the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, take a note. We've got a bunch of receipts, well, it's a scary situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the question of tariffs is important enough. You know the principle of its formation. You know that this tariff is actually formed by an independent commission with respect to the value, first of all the raw materials that lie in this tariff, then transport it, then deliver it. Today, there are some reasons and possibilities to view tariffs as such. We're doing it carefully enough right now. But once again, the derivative is what electricity is produced. And of course, you understand very well that unfortunately, we work in this regard in a world market environment. Nevertheless, I'm taking your question into account, we'll definitely figure it out -- and I'll give you a written answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u22	Alexander Goodima, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u23	The question will be asked by the national MP, Helena Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u24	Olena Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u25	Microphone! Oh, there is. I have a question for the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. The Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights, stipulates that the decision of the European Court of Justice is mandatory for the execution of Ukraine and must be implemented within a ten-day period. Otherwise, criminal responsibility becomes appropriate. On March 15th, on the day of the decision, the European Court of Justice in an official report obliged the Government of Ukraine to provide, quote: "Adequate medical treatment for Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrina in the appropriate institution." Why are Eurosud’s requirements still unfulfilled, what execution plan, and in what terms will it be implemented, and in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u26	Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. I think it's going to be necessary for there to be no further misunderstandings, right now to quote all the points that regulate the subject, because Galina Fedorovna was very correct and correctly quoted in the reference to Ukraine. There is a 39 rule of the Rules of Procedure that states that a Chamber, i.e. one to which a case is established, where appropriate, or its head, may, at the request of a party or any other interested person or on its own initiative, indicate to the parties which the interim action is in its opinion to be used in the interests of the parties or in the interests of the proper conduct of the case. The Chamber may require the parties to provide information on any matter related to the implementation of any temporary action it determines. This is a translation of the rule under which the court operates. 16 Human Rights Commissioners received electronics. [[The 15th date, but it was the evening, it came at 20 52 minutes, so it was the 15th date.]] The 16 figures in Ukraine were familiar with a provision that literally says, "Dear lady, I inform you that on 15 March 2012, the head of the Chamber for which the case was lodged decided, in the interests of the parties and for the proper conduct of the court, to instruct your government in accordance with Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court to ensure that the applicant is provided with medical assistance which corresponds to her complaints in the relevant institution." The head of the Chamber also decided to designate the Government in accordance with Rule 54. give the answer to two questions. First. Are the conditions for the applicant to be present in the Kharkiv colony, including the material and economic, sanitary and medical provision of the standards provided for in article 3 of the convention? Article 3 of the Conventions is a ban on torture. The second question is, "Is the requirements of article 3 of the convention fit for medical assistance?" "Please send these comments by April 5, 2012." And now the information, how it happened. According to the reports given to me by the State Penitentiary Service, on February 14, this year, the German doctors who recommended the treatment of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna completed the examination. One of the recommendations was treatment at a hospital suitable for this specialized clinic. With a view to discussing the recommendations of German doctors, a special Ukrainian-German medical commission was established, and a comprehensive medical treatment plan was developed on 7 March 2012 on the basis of recommendations from German doctors. On March 12, 2012, the application was proposed to start the treatment at the Kachanov Correctional Colony, but it refused, requiring hospital treatment in Germany. On March 14, 2012, the complainant referred to the findings made by German doctors in the European Court of Human Rights, which had already been discussed. On March 15, the Commission of Medical Specialists informed the complainant that the Kachanov Correctional Colony had all the equipment necessary to provide medical care at this stage. The statements were repeated, but she refused, requiring hospital treatment outside the colony. On March 16, 2012, the European Court of Human Rights government-authorized cases received a bill that I had already announced. On March 19, 2012, applications for clarification of the substance of the treatment offered to her and her full compliance with the recommendations of German doctors were provided with a table of her treatment. This table divides the treatment plan into 10 consecutive stages, comparing these steps with all the recommendations given on February 14, 2012. In particular, statements indicated that the colony has all the equipment, medicine, and medical specialists in civilian hospitals to carry out the eight stages of the above plan. Only 2 out of 10 stages, namely, the seventh and ninth, need to be taken to a specialized hospital. Nevertheless, the complainant continued to refuse to implement the treatment plan. Then the only reason why the complainant is not receiving the treatment recommended by medical professionals today is because of her regular refusal to do so. These refusals were documented and a letter was sent to the European Court of Justice by the Government of Ukraine on March 20, 2012. This is the information that was provided by the State Penitentiary Service, which is at the disposal of these issues. The laws of Ukraine do not give any.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u28	Thank you. Lilia Grigorovitch, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] May I have your attention, please? Calm down, I beg of you, dear fellows! Well, come on, listen, and then we'll talk. Well, please. Lilia Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u29	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." While sharing my colleagues ’ views on the health situation of Julia Timoshenko, I still want to ask Valery Ivanovich Horoshkowski the following question. Dear Valery Ivanovich, the famous phrase "The country that does not feed its army feeds its own" can be rephrased in another way: "The country that does not finance its national producer, its machine-building, its financing of jobs and machine-building in other countries." What is it? Ukraine not only has unique black lands -- it has an equally unique Herson Combin Factory. In the 1960s, he got a Grand-Pry in Paris, and today our combo isn't "Lan," it's "Skiff" that's better than Belarusian and Russian. Nevertheless, Technotrg is bringing in some sort of combine, and our current combine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u30	Finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u31	It's almost gone. There are letters -- this is the precedent -- of the three previous presidents of Ukraine to today's President, asking him to clear up. And there is the commission of today's President of Ukraine. I ask you to take under special control the issue of Ukrainian combinery, Ukrainian machine building, as a final Ukrainian perspective.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u32	Thank you. Please, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u33	Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's really no question here -- there's a request here, so we're definitely going to look at it on the committee and we're going to have a rule on what we can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u34	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u35	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Poltavščina. Dear Valery Ivanovich, I would like to ask you a painful question about the price of milk that is produced in personal support farms for the settlement and protection of farmers from the unscrupulous actions of dairy producers who receive profits in the work of peasants. The price of a liter of milk is now high. was bracelet 1 80, bracelet 1 50, already talking about bracelet 1 20. At the same time, in retail trade, it's already 7 bucks, including milk. It's speculation that it's a siren war with Russia, but Russia has a limited number of businesses, and the rest is working on the internal market. And yet, at their cost, the production never fell, but it did. What measures is being taken by the government to make these imbalances. These imbalances to avoid and protect our peasants?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u36	Thank you. I propose to answer to the Deputy Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. Well, of course, the main point of price security is the milk production required by our processing companies. And second of all, I want to point out that the orphan enterprises were making the situation very positive, which was then directed by other forward-looking enterprises. So the main element of solving this problem is solving the problem of export of raw materials to Russia, which is now being actively processed and, in fact, this will have a positive impact on the price situation. The second question is about the actions that are being taken now. Well, first of all, we work very specifically with processing enterprises at the level of ministries, at the level of regions. You know, it kind of keeps prices going down. And the question that we're dealing with today is, we're dealing with cheese-making enterprises that have been reoriented to produce dry milk in part, and we're dealing with the possibility of purchasing dry milk in part and butter in the agar foundation to get it out of the market and allow the market to move more. The government’s appropriate decision on price regulation and volume of procurement was therefore adopted. It's on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u38	Antonina Boloura, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u39	Thank you. I beg your pardon to pass on to Good Eugenia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u40	Eugene Goodyak, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u41	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. I'm, frankly, surprised by your answer to a question from my colleague, Elena Bondarenko. So I have two specific questions. Please tell us, in what specialized facility outside the colony, according to the European Court of Justice, was Yulia Timoshenko offered treatment? That's the first one. The other one. What specific steps have been taken to implement this decision? And I'd like to tell you, we visited the Kachanov colony: doctors, me, Shevchuk. And we have looked closely at the conditions under which you offer to treat a severely ill person. You know, I'm shocked that if she was offered to do spinal cord in a cell, what is it? When we got acquainted with the findings of the German doctors, we were shocked. I'd like to present to you publicly with Professor Pierre's comments on the findings of the German doctors.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u42	Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u43	I'm not going to read what I said again. The point is that we've received a recommendation from the European Court of Human Rights that sounds like we need to give the applicants appropriate treatment according to medical evidence. The Ministry of Justice is not the Ministry of Health and it's not a penitentiary service. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will then read to you again if you have any doubts: "We inform you that the head of the Chamber for which the case has been established, in the interests of the parties and for the proper conduct of the court, has decided to instruct your government in accordance with Rule 39 of the Rules to ensure that the applicant receives medical assistance in accordance with her complaints in the relevant institution. [[B in m in s a l in]] Help is provided on the basis of the medical findings of the decision of the correctional colony. In this case, there is a decision that indicates that the medical devices and all the equipment that is needed, sent by German doctors and medical treatment for eight out of the ten positions she needs, are in place, in the colony. In two positions there is a need for treatment outside."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, well, listen to the answer, then ask a very specific question. Well, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u45	In two positions there is a need for treatment in a hospital outside the colony, and this will be done when it is necessary to approach these stages. This is only the seventh stage of treatment. Today, according to information provided by the State Penitentiary Service, the applicant refuses to start treatment. And these acts are sent to the European Court of Human Rights along with a medical plan set up by doctors.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u46	Please, John the Rabbit instead of Kostenko, the faction "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u47	Dear Valery Ivanovich, you have explained the problem in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u48	Valeria Ivanovich was called on the phone right now, so ask another minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u49	But not a single word has been said about the causes of this economic war, which is being waged against Ukraine, by the Ukrainian peasants, the Russian authorities. In terms of reasons, I think they're on the surface. First, Moscow wants to push Ukrainian producers out of the Russian market, secondly, Moscow wants to blow up Ukrainian agriculture as a competitor, and in particular to tear down the village. And you know what happened is that there was a drop in milk prices, and the buyers explained it because Russia didn't take raw. Although that's an artificial explanation. And about the lessons. Maybe we need to review the policy of supporting a national producer, reviewing foreign investors' policies and looking for markets. What do you think of this problem? We need to look for a way out, not a statement of facts. Because the village was deeply shaken by the economic war that Moscow had waged against the Ukrainian peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u50	Deputy Minister of Agriculture Policy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u51	As for the situation, you realize that markets, remodeling markets in a few days or in a few months, when we deliver 40 percent of milk and 80 percent of cheese to Russia, you can't do it in one day. But what I'm saying is, Valery Ivanovich's report said this, and now there's an active debate about the functioning of markets in the Middle East, South Africa and Asia. Although there are other production requirements, there is a slightly different range of products, we need to specialize, so we need to rebuild production.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u52	Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u53	Valerius Beaz, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! I listened to the reply of the deputy minister of the agro-industrial complex to the questions of our colleague Gordijenko and realized that the question of what the village was dying was relevant both to the country and to the government. But I have a question for the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Tihypak. Sergey Leonidovich, I've informed you on the Conciliation Board about the 630 million assigned to the emergency call system 112. And he invited the finance minister as the chairman of the committee, how the funds were used and whether they were used at all. Neither you nor the Minister of Finance have given me the head of the Committee for Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. Maybe I'll hear it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u54	Please, Sergey Leonidovich. Then there's the minister of finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u55	In fact, at the Conciliation Board meeting on Monday we received such a request. And I've given you appropriate instructions to prepare an answer. It's been four days. Excuse me, wait a day or two, and you'll get the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u56	Yuri Volodymyrovich, please, Kolobov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u57	The same thing, we've already prepared the answer, it will be sent on Monday.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u58	Extremity faction, "BUT is the Fatherland." We'll wait until Monday, or we'll be alive by Monday. The ultimate microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u60	Sergei Vlasenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u61	I have a question for Alexander Lavrinovich. Mr. Minister, I remind you that according to the judgement of the European Court of Human Rights in the Marmakula v. Turkey case, the 39 Rule Rules are full decisions of the European Court of Justice. This is position one. And the State is obliged to comply with it in accordance with the legal obligations of the State of Ukraine. Secondly, by the European Court of Justice ruling of 15 May, which the Ministry of Justice received on 15 May, the State of Ukraine was obliged to provide Yulia Timoshenko with adequate treatment in a specialized institution, accordingly the prison is not such an institution. By the way, I have a big request: don't distribute, please, a lie from the penitentiary system that Timoshenko seems to be refusing any treatment. Tymoshenko requires one thing: hard compliance with the treatment prescribed by the German doctors, and they clearly recorded it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u62	Complete the question, please. Well, take it easy! Finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u63	German doctors have made it clear that her treatment is possible only at a hospital in a specialized medical clinic. If your gestapos at the State Penitentiary Service first said she was healthy, now they're saying she's partially ill, now they're saying, by the way, yesterday they said that she should be taken to the hospital every day for treatment. That's what's written in your boards, which is what you've been showing, what's called an information agreement. So I have a simple question: When and how will Timoshenko be transferred to a specialized medical clinic to provide the necessary treatment? And Timoshenko refuses to do anything but take out the spinal cords in the prison cell and carry out a medical blockade in the prison cell. I would very much advise one of the ministers to do this in a prison cell.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u65	I don't think that in this case, I'm going to have to make some adjustments one more time, and I'd ask you not to speculate this week. Because an e - mail receipt sent late in the evening to 15 numbers and 16 numbers received when the computer was turned on says that it is necessary to provide medical care that suits complaints at the appropriate institution. In this case, it is appropriate to provide the treatment provided by doctors. There are medical professionals who determine what to do, when, in what sequence and how. There's a penitentiary service where people serve and work, no matter what you call them, they do their work according to Ukrainian legislation, and everyone's competence is theirs. And I think as a lawyer, you know who can make decisions about transferring someone outside the colony and on what grounds. I think that in this case we need to clearly implement Ukrainian legislation, and we don't have any legislative restrictions on anyone who's in the colony being able to be treated at the hospital. There are no such restrictions. And human health is the most important thing in this regard. And if there is a need for that, the doctors must tell us where it should be, and the colony’s leadership must make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u66	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u67	I have a question for the Deputy Minister of the APC. Over the course of two years, the current power, led by the President, by a titanic effort, is pulling the country out of the deep pit into which the former power has dipped. 15 per cent of GDP fell, negative trends were reversed, and the economy and individual industries grew. That year, successful harvesting and, in fact, record in the history of Ukraine's independence were repeated in the best years of the Soviet Union. Unfortunately, however, neither the crop nor the weather nor the climate are expected this year. I have a specific question. What transformation will the structure of the sown areas of the spring wedge experience in order not to allow the production of grain to decline this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u69	Thank you. You're right, the main challenge we have in the field of vegetation this year is, in fact, a certain degree of stability and not allowing for a fall. For that, and for that, first of all, there's a structure that's going to allow us to stabilize the total cylinder. So we expect an increase in the area of corn to be within 5 million, an increase in the area of barley by 600,000. This stabilizes the shaft that we can lose at the expense of the winter cultures. The second, the main question is the provision of food grain. I want to assure the distinguished national MPs that we see even in the situation that she is now, that part of the grains we're going to lose, that's in the winter, that's obviously 30-40 percent. The winter wheat that forms the food balance and the grain will be enough for Ukraine's food security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u70	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u71	Vladimir Karpuk. A question to Alexander Volodymyrovich and a question to Sergey Leonidovich, because I don't see the Deputy Prime Minister in the field of health. Alexander Volodymyrovich, as a doctor who has taken part in the treatment of the sick and in the expert evaluation of people under investigation or being punished, I can tell you with certainty that we need to trust international commissions because doctors in our penitentiary service are 100 percent dependent on leadership and what is required are being treated. I know that, so consider it. And the question to Sergio Leonidovich. Because you don't have one. There are now developments around the Epidemiology and Infectious Diseases of the Name Gromoshewski Institute, which are located near the territory of Kiev-Pecher Lavra. They move out of the clinic, the only clinic where AIDS patients are treated, and the neuroinfection clinic is the only and only viral hepatitis. This is a very important, very huge problem in Ukraine with this. They are brought out of there without providing enough equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u72	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u73	Don't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u74	Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u75	I'm asking you not to let this happen. If there is, indeed, a need for relocation, an emergency, a necessary repair, then these need to be translated.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Sergei Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u77	I believe that the position of the national MP is completely understood and correct. If there is a need to repair the premises, there is a need for even better replacements. I'll take that question and check it out. I think we can handle all of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u78	Helen Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u79	Olena Shustik, "BUT is Fatherland." Please pass the word to Master Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u80	Sergei Vlasenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u81	Again the next question to Alexander Lavrinovich. Mr. Minister, this is the next situation. Once again, I stress that the European Court of Justice is mandatory for execution. This footnote obliges the State of Ukraine to provide treatment to Julia Timoshenko at a specialized facility. Prison is definitely not and cannot be. This is the first time. Secondly, I want to remind you that on December 29th, the Court of Appeal had yet to read out the sentence, the appeal for the sentence of Timoshenko, as they ran to execute the decision at 5 a.m. on the morning of 30th, and the sick man was transported to the Kachanov Colony. So why don't they run to the European Court of Justice?Oh, my God! As far as the doctor's advice is concerned. German doctors are the only doctors who've seen Julia Volodymyrna. These are the only doctors who have concluded that Timoshenko needs treatment at a specialized clinic. That's it. And all treatment should.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u82	Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u83	Well, then I'll read again what's written in the decision I received from the European Court of Human Rights in the case of the European Court of Human Rights: "Ensure the applicant to receive medical assistance that matches her complaints at the appropriate institution." And don't twist this decision, which is signed by Mr. Phillips' Undersecretary. According to the state of the day, the information provided by the penitentiary service shows that what the German doctors have identified for treatment and the treatment plan, which is jointly agreed with the Ukrainian doctors, enables the first stage to ensure full implementation of all recommendations within the Kachanów Colony, where conditions and medication are provided and what is related to equipment. Two of these points are written that they have to be made outside the colony under the stationary conditions. As for the individual positions of the doctors, of course I didn’t know them, it’s confidential information. Now they've given me the package. If you think this confidential information can be so widespread, I'll get to know it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, the "hour of questions to the government" is over. I thank the officials and ask them for questions that have not been answered to the questions of the national MPs, and the Secretariat asks them to control it. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, take 30 minutes on Friday to make their requests. Allow me to make a request from the people's deputies. Victoria Demyanchuk to the President of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the National School No. 1 in the city of Novokrajinka Kirovogradsk, in connection with the appeal of more than 130 residents of Kirovogradjska, whose children are studying at the designated educational institution. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:04:10]] For 106 Request not supported. Sergey Vlasenka to the President of Ukraine regarding the immediate enforcement of the Strasbourg Court order for urgent treatment of Yulia Timoshenko outside the Penitentiary Service. For what reasons? We do. Well, please, Vlasenko. There's no motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u85	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just wanted to go to my colleagues from most of them, because President Yanukovic has repeatedly spoken about his sympathy for Yulia Timoshenko, but he has no legal reason to intervene. In accordance with article 102 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President is a right-holder and a guarantor of the rights and freedoms of the citizen. Failure to execute a specific decision by the European Court of Justice is a brutal violation of human rights. So this is a legal basis for President Yanukovich to intervene immediately. So I just want to help the President on this issue, and I urge the majority to vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u86	Thank you. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[11:05:28]] For-98 Please put it on the faction board. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for Violent Action against the State Actor, National Deputy of Ukraine Irina Heraschenko of the Party of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, made in a particularly cynical form on the electoral site. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the cessation of illegal actions by officials of State authorities, in particular officials of the State Environmental Inspectorate for Environmental Protection of the North-West Region of the Black Sea, as well as employees of law enforcement agencies who undermine Ukraine's authority in the field of international trade in navigation, expressed in an unjustified violation of criminal case involving officials of one of the few Ukrainian traders and carriers of the Transship enterprise, the use of measures to respond to and bring to justice officials. Valerija Baranov to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation that took place in the private stockholders' company Priasovkurt in Berdjansk as a result of the removal of objects of their immovable property in favour of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the regulation of the transport of schoolchildren by a specialized school bus with the aim of enhancing the safety of the most vulnerable road users. Valerija Suškević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the creation of conditions for the accessibility of the railway station in Lviv and its adjacent territory for persons with disabilities and other small mobile groups as part of the preparations for the final part of the European Football Championship in Ukraine. Vassil Wooden to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at carrying out a comprehensive verification of the legality of the activities of MMM 2011 in Ukraine, to prevent citizens' fraud and the illegal possession of their funds. Vasil Petěvka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the project on "Transfer to electric fire of residential buildings, organizations, institutions of the city of Rakhov Zakarpatsk district". Valeria Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for the costs of the Dnipro Kirovograd Water Transfer. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Minister of State, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the review of the appeal of the village of Pleteny Tashlik of the Malovski district of Kirovograd for the urgent reconstruction of the hydrotechnological building, since the said structure is in an emergency condition and its destruction can lead to significant human casualties. [[Dambi]] Vladimir Vizewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure of Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers to implement the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Social Protection of Multi-Children, of 19 May 2009. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District State Administration for illegal construction in the Odessa specialized sanatorium of Lustdorf, the construction of the coastline and the verification of the legality of the orders of the Head of the Odiopolski District State Administration, as well as support for the activities of the Prosecutor's Office aimed at establishing the legality and accountability of the guilty. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District State Administration for the Protection of Constitutional and Labour Rights of Workers of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence 'Odeska Automotive Repair Plant'. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to finance the unfinished construction of the Novoarchangeli gas pipeline to the village of the city type of Novorchangeli. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the gasification of the villages of Kucherjavlodymyrovka and Red Polyan of the region of Herson. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ensuring the full functioning of the mortgage-credit costing mechanism, with the aim of providing affordable housing for citizens of the country who need to improve housing conditions. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for amendments to Decision No. 1147 of 17 September 1996 on the approval of lists of activities belonging to environmental protection measures. Mikoli Rudchenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to stabilize purchase prices for milk raw materials in the Gitomir region. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide State support for the preservation of the Forest Museum of Ukraine in Yalta. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the failure to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "Contemporary state and current tasks to overcome the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster". Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the government's understatement of subsistence minimum and minimum wage rates and the need to increase them immediately in view of government statements on the availability of an additional 25 billion dollars of income in the State budget of Ukraine for social needs. Mikoli Shershun to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to review inter-budget transfers for local budgets in the Plain region. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, for the purpose of determining the reasons for ignoring the specific rules of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Measures to address the current problems of persons with limited physical capacity, since 19 May 2011 and the immediate implementation of the Decree. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to prevent the deterioration of the health-epidemiological situation in Ukraine and the destruction of Ukraine's State Health and Epidemiology Service. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of full street and instigating areas of the Ukrainian population. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on deliberate braking of the nuclear fuel plant. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the determination of the government's position on the need to unify the amount of payments made at the expense of the State Budget to residents of urban areas with mountain status. Alexander Cnervolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the removal of the causes of underfunding and the breakdown of the construction of the subways in Teremka and Trojščina. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Poltava District State Administration for funding from the budget of the construction of the pipeline to the villages of Biljak and the Seminal Region of Poltava, which has been going on for many years. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the closure of the state-owned enterprise "Brovar Radio Broadcasting Centre". Yulia Kovalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the need for an objective and complete audit of the information that indicates a possible violation of the requirements of legislation in the placement of pavilions, shops, food and temporary facilities in the territory of the commercial think tank of Magellan in Kiev. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the lack of control over the quality of natural gas and light petroleum products. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a special unit from the technical operation of buildings at the Odessa National Academy Theatre of Opera and Ballet. Sergio Moshak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal appointment of Anton Zelinsky as Head of the territorial administration of the Ministry of Emergency Situations in the Zakartat region. Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the recommendation. reconstruction and equipment of the dormitory of the public school of social rehabilitation in the Kyiv district of Kharkiv. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issues raised in the petitions of residents of Lugansk and other areas of Ukraine concerning the granting of tax benefits to farmers of milk produced in private holdings and the provision of information from the tax agent on the right of a natural person to receive income without tax. [[Kilincarov, Gordijenko and others]] Sergia Tereshuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the financing of the pipeline to the village of Viknina Katerinopil district of Cherka. The Group of Greenewecko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of residents of prominent residences and hostels. Jurya Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of the infirmary in the village of the High Monastery district of Ternopil. Jaroslav Suhogo to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the failure to take appropriate measures to preserve the labour potential in the mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the purpose of conducting a review of article 97 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the fact that officials of boarding school No.4 of Odessa have committed crimes under articles 191, 367 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the legality of the criminal offence against Dmitr Konovalov, the compliance with the requirements of the applicable legislation during the appointment and payment of pensions and other forms of social assistance to orphans and children deprived of parental care and the legal responsibility of the perpetrators. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unwarranted and hasty process of reorganizing the Scientific and Methodological Centre of Agrarian Education by the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine. [[Sidekick, Samuel, and others]] Mikoli Kulczynski and Jury Karmazin to the prime minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District Administration for the verification of the abuse of power, corruption, by the leaders of the Drobic City Council during the tender for the purchase of garbage, which gave priority to the old ten-year-old import machines instead of the production of a local car factory, which caused only direct losses to the small-bit community for the sum of about half a million dollars, the use of measures for the development of a car factory as the main taxpayer of Drobic taxes and the involvement of the innocent in a non-transparent tender to take responsibility. Vasila Amazing to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on ensuring the arrival of special vehicles for disabled people in the region of Ivano-Frankiv in 2012, as part of the State Budget Programme on Measures for the Social, Labour and Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Anatolia Yagoferov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the purpose of clarifying the issue of pay to workers who were appointed to military assemblies to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. Victor Olijnik to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the increase of pension payments to participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident by military officials. Vasila Zdovna to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need to carry out a major repair of the road areas of state importance Stry-Chernovitzi-Mamaliga as part of the proper preparations for the final part of the European Football Championship 2012. Vladimir Danilenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Director-General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine for the non-declaration of the number of workers and the closure of the Wagon Depot of the Sumsk Region. Vladimir Karpuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the Cherkas District State Administration, on the situation surrounding the treatment of patients with renal insufficiency in Cherkasa. Catherine Vaschuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, on the urgent need to assist in reforming the rural village of Verben of the Demidiv region of the Plains region, and to equip this medical facility with a light light car. Jurya Crook to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Health Minister for the acquisition of a new shift fluorograph for the Ishmael District Hospital of Odessa. Vladimir Karpuk and Lilia Grigorović to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, for the prevention of evictions from the territory of the National Kyiv-Peterian Historical and Cultural Reserve of the Institute of Epidemiology and Infectious Diseases of the name of Gromashevski until the completion of the capital repair of the new premises and the use of measures for the compulsory employment of medical staff of the facility. Leva Biruk and Mikli Kulczynski to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the destructive policy of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine and the Academy of Peter Toločka concerning the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska and their discreditation of the decree of the President of Ukraine to mark the 1000th anniversary of the establishment of the Sofia Council. Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the State Agency for Road Traffic of Ukraine, the Kyiv Municipal Administration, the Kyiv District Public Administration, the Glossiev District in Kiev State Administration, the Bilocerk District State Administration of Kiev, the Executive Committee of the Biotzerkow City Council of the Kyiv Region concerning the need for a comprehensive review of the conversion of residents of the Bilocerkow district of Kiev and the Volosiv region of Kiev to the establishment of pedestrian zones and to ensure the safety of road traffic by means of traffic control of the traffic control of the Kyiv region. [[Bondica, Prutnika, and Others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine, the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the Kyiv District Administration, the Kyiv District Association of Gardening Associations and Masses, the Bilocerk district government administration of the Kyiv Region, the Biotzerkow City Council, the Skarov village council of the Biloczerk district of Kyiv Region, and the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of members of the Thomilivska Gardening Society on the facts of the acquisition of land in the area of the Biotzerk district of Kyiv Region and the use of appropriate measures to ensure the restoration and protection of the property rights of this company. [[Plotnikova, Popescu and others]] Eugen Marmazov to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine on the transfer to the long-term lease of the property complex and land of the State Enterprise Research "Red Farmer" of the Kyrovgrad Institute of Agricultural Production of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Andrea Pinchuk to the head of the National Museum of National Architecture and Life in 2011 for the purpose of carrying out a non-planned review of the efficiency of the use of funds. Alla Alexandrovsky to the head of the National Energy Regulatory Commission on the need to increase the gas and electricity standards that consumers pay at minimum rates for families with children. Paul Silent to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about the unobjective attitude of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio in carrying out pre-planned tests on the activities of the only Ukrainian-speaking children's TV company. Tarasa Steckowa to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the service negligence of officials of the Darnicki District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev for the brutal beating of residents of Kiev, Viacheslava, and Mikola Boyuk and the robbery of Alexander Skuropat on February 25, 2012. Veacheslava Koval and Alexander Crnvolenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to the parliamentary request of December 9, 2011 for police officers' actions in the premises of the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the responsibility of municipal gas and electricity enterprises for uninhabited services. Anatolya Yagoferova to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the clarification of section XX, Subsection 4, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Eduard Prutnik and Valerija Bondik to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Chernigian District State Administration, the District Regional Administration of the Chernigian Region on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the resident of the Cernigiv Region, the pensioner, the disabled person of the Great Homeland War Michael Levchanski on the organization of care for him as a single elderly person, and the provision of timely adequate free treatment. Jury Crook to Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of Ukrainian sailors. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for a deliberate delay in responding to a parliamentary request to check the use of funds from the State Budget in 2009-2011 for the reconstruction of the Kyrovograd Academy of the Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre Kropivinski, namely: how and for what were some 23 million bracelets won in the last 20 days of 2011. Sergey Chrapova to the head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for receiving a copy of the act for carrying out a financial audit – the economic activity of the state-owned company "East Mining and Enriching Combined" of the Dnipropetrov region. Catherine Vaschuk to the head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the head of the Volin District Administration, the head of the Wallin District Council on the elimination of a conflict situation between the resident of the village of Jarówka Horochov County of Volin Region of Nina Magera and the local authorities on the issue of the designation of pie as a social worker. Sergey Tereshuka to Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the need for capital repair of the road to the village of Seminovka in the region of Cherkas region. Alexander Kemenyash to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for providing information on the dynamics of the number of people living in mountain settlements receiving pensions that are financed by the State Budget. Victor Sinchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the improper investigation by colleagues of the Kagarlic District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv area of criminal proceedings for the murder of a citizen of John Bacan. Julia Kovalova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on taking urgent action, making appropriate decisions, ensuring that criminal cases are properly investigated, and that organized crime groups are shut down, causing damage to economic operators. Vasil Czerny to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the issue of rations to the citizen of Alexandr Dzvonko as the heir of the parents who were missed on the list of rations of the collective farm "Friendry", the Kozyatin district of Vinnitsky. Jury Grimchak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of the constitutional rights of the disabled person of the second group Alexander Zubitsky and the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of Kiev and Kharkiv region. Victor Sinchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of investor rights in the construction of the Triple Gate II housing complex in the city of Obuhov Kyiv district. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, honours the return of the former State-owned enterprise of Ukretelek to state property in connection with the violation of the privatization conditions, which is confirmed by the fact that every employee is forced to leave without saving his salary. Vasil Kiselov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rights of residents of the Zimin Village Council, the Dzdolno region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the construction of the street networks of the gas pipeline in the villages of Zimine, Krasnoarmi, Ovržna. Valery Baranov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations of legislation and creditors' rights by the liquidator of the commercial bank Arma. Jury Prokopchuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the issue of exceeding the official authority of the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine. Vassil Spak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of prosecutorial measures against the Society's leaders with limited responsibility, Hadzacsir. Victor Matchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for improper consideration of the MP’s appeal to the prosecutor of the district of Suma. Vladimir Leshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the elimination of violations of the current legislation of Ukraine, on the self-absorbing of the coastline of the Bistrica River by residents of the town of Bobrovic of the Chernigiv region. Lesi Orobec to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of legislation during the tender and the conclusion of a contract with a limited company "Saarland Bud Invest" for the construction of a school in the 24th Microregion of the residential estate "Saarland Bud Investment" worth 67 million 990,000 dollars. Edward Pavlenko to the U.S. Attorney General's Office regarding the prosecutor's supervision of the law enforcement of citizens' appeal during the consideration of the issue of the assignment to the public shareholders of the NTC Electron device of the name of its founder, the Chief Designer, Igor Jastrebov. Viacheslav Koval to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the abolition of the peaceful action of the civil campaign Rise, violation of the right of citizens to peaceful meetings, and the acquittal of law enforcement officials. Victor Schwetz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation of a criminal case based on the deliberate murder of Roman Bogota. Oleg Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to bring criminal responsibility for the bribery and abuse of the former head of the Provon County Administration of the Kirovograd district of Ivan Archipanek. Lesi Orobec to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of legislation during the tender and the conclusion of contracts with a limited company with the responsibility of Avias and the private company Tau Polissia for the purchase of petrol and diesel fuel. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the laws of the land by the Society with limited responsibility for "Bilosklo" in the territory of the Bilokrinic Village Council of the Radomisl district of the Žitomir region. Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal recalculation of votes resulting from the election of the village head of the village of Cherganyovka of Ivano-Frankovsk. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cover-up of crimes by officials of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Kamyanka-Buzki District of Lviv Region. Helen Bondarenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of actions by the Ukrainian national deputy, Peter Melnik, which contain signs of crimes regarding the Ukrainian national deputy, Irina Heratchenko. Helen Kondratuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the use of prosecutorial response measures to prevent the legitimate professional activity of ISTV journalists on March 16, 2012, in Kiev, and on the issue of bringing those responsible to justice. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of salaries to employees of the Tramway Municipal Company of the Dniprožinsk Dnipropetrovsk district. Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations during the election of the city’s head of the city of Opuchy and the interference of the people’s deputies in the exercise of their authority. Sergia Vlasenka to the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine, State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine for the violation of legislation by the Kachanov Correctional Colony No. 54. Sergei Pavlenko to the head of the Donetsk district government regarding the emergency status of the power lines of the village of Lower Krink of the Soviet district of Makiyyivka Donetsk district and the resolution of their repairs. Vassila Czerny to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the fitting in his own house in the village of Gajwicz in the Ovrucci district of Žitomir district of the first group of Hanna Hayewski. Yuri Odarchenka to the Rector of Taras Shevchenk, Kyiv National University, for the protection of the rights of students living in dormitory during the final part of Euro-2012. Jurija Gnatkević to the Director of the Kyiv Research Institute of Forensic Experts on the extremely unprofessional and possibly criminal treatment of experts at the Kyiv Research Institute of Forensics to carry out the "Instruction of the Ministry of Design and Conduct of Forensic Research" in the civil case before the Kyiv Bologna Court. Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the International Charity Foundation "Ukrainian Family" for the presence and use of charitable contributions from a large number of Ukrainian citizens for the construction of the Taras Church in Caneva, gathered by the International Charity Foundation "Ukrainian Family". Ladies and gentlemen, 169 parliamentary inquiries have been made. Please, Teryohin's microphone. No, no, the thing is, we have exactly 30 minutes. I can't. Sergei. Out of the way, please. Well, please, there's only one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, thank you very much. On July 7, last year, the Supreme Council directed Azarov to my request for the lack of response of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine to the grave violation of the established rules of diplomatic relations allowed by the Minister of Defence of the Russian Federation, Serdukov, and to the sending of a corresponding appeal to the President of the Russian Federation. The story is short. In June 2011, Defence Minister Serdukov sent a letter to Prime Minister Azarov asking him to help pay off the debt allegedly incurred between the commercial companies created by the Ministry of Defence of Russia and the EUSO. The fact that such a letter is received is confirmed by the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this connection, I approached the President of the Russian Federation with the assistance of the Prime Minister of Ukraine with a number of questions. First, I asked to assess the diplomatic precedent when one country's defence minister addressed the prime minister directly to another country's prime minister, because this is diplomatic homage. Secondly, I asked the President whether Serdukov's letter was an official document of the Russian state or whether it was the personal opinion of the Minister of Defence of the Russian State. Thirdly, I asked the President to draw attention to the fact that, in his letter to Sirduków, he violated the UNCITRAL Convention on Ages. What happened next? Parliament sent my address to Prime Minister Azarov. In a legal term, Azarov gave it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for which I am deeply grateful. I was informed by his letter of July 27, 2011. Within three months, however, the Ministry of Internal Affairs did not report to me on the execution of Mr. Azarov’s commission. On October 18, I addressed a parliamentary appeal to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. On November 3rd, I got the answer by signing the ov. Minister Demchenko, that the decision of Parliament and the Azarov Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not be taken for a purpose, I quote: "avoiding the possible negative reaction of Russian official factors. So it goes on to say, "It was considered appropriate to refrain from actually transferring your address to the President." I don't know who it was. The curtains are falling. In this connection, I request the prosecutor’s office to open a factual criminal case to prevent my activity as a public official, which falls within the scope of article 351 of the CDC. As well as articles 364 and 365 of the CDC. Thank you for your attention. And I hope that this will be made up of the next parliamentary question. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a motion for removal. Time's up, I can't. Dear colleagues, I am addressing other national MPs who are also dissatisfied with the answers to parliamentary requests. We can do this within 30 minutes — making inquiries and making statements in response to dissatisfaction. Well, it's time to do it. There'll be fewer questions. You see, the honourable national MPs, the MPs, they've already turned us into enquiries. Instead of addressing the MPs themselves, they form as parliamentary inquiries. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we need to take a decision on the settlement of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on the Specialities of Selling Stock Packages, which belongs to a State in the statutory capital of banks, which the State has taken part in capitalization. [[Registration number 9362]] On March 15, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act on the Specialities of Selling Stock Packages, which is owned by the State in the statutory capital of banks, which the State took part in capitalization. During the drafting of the law for signature, editorial inaccuracies and disagreements were found between its individual positions, which necessitated the clarification of the text of the adopted Law in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. These differences can be remedied by the introduction of article 15 of the Law into such texts. Article 15. "According to the sale of bank shares." "The funds received from the sale of shares in banks are included in the state budget of Ukraine. Remember, we discussed this? The committee reconsidered, clarified with the Cabinet of Ministers, and asked for clarification. For what reason? It's not being discussed, it's being refined, it's a committee refinement, it's Stanislaw Arzevetin. What do you say? Well, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not what it sounded like when we accepted it. I'd like to talk about the mechanism. When we decided that the State was taking part in privatizing the bank, the state had to either give live money and buy shares, or share the bank with the government's securities. This was usually exchanged on government securities. The bank didn't get any living money. So we wrote it down further, when the state decides that it sells these shares, it's going to pay off the same securities that it put in the bank's balance sheet. So exchange of securities would be like living money. And that would be a logical extension, because the state wasn't paying the money, it was giving the securities. And now that we're in that paper that we voted for, we've taken logically correctly. If the state leaves the owner, it will cancel its obligations, that is, it was right and logical. I don't know what the technical disagreement is. Please think.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have once again agreed that all revenue should go to the state budget. And the committee considered and made this logical decision. So I'm voting on the proposal to remove the disagreements in the text of the adopted law on the proposals of the committee of profile. [[Registration number 9362]] Please vote. [[11:41:36]] For 223 The decision is not taken. I'm voting for a return to that question. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:41:56]] For 233 Decision taken. We're back. I now put to the vote a decision on the elimination of disagreements in the text of Law 9362. Please vote. [[11:42:23]] For 232 Decision taken. So let's figure out how much money was sent out for the recapitalisation of banks, they had to return interest. Where are the percentages? We'd solve all the social problems. So I'm asking you not to talk about it. I'm asking you not to talk about it. Ukraine should not live for banks, banks should live for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, your attention is offered to the announcement. In accordance with article 60 with the 1st Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "For the Future of Ukraine Without Smoking", composed of 68 national deputies, the head of the interfractional parliamentary association "For the Future of Ukraine Without Smoking" elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kralkov Eugen Igorovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'm asking the head of the interfractional union to do a job so that they don't burn in the towers of the Supreme Council for a start. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the circumstances that have led to the situation that has taken place around Indra ZAT. Reporter to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Plaho Igor Ivanovich. For the report, honourable colleagues, according to the Rules – 20 minutes, answers to questions – up to 20 minutes, then making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u91	Respectable colleagues are no secret of what has happened in recent years in Ukraine with the production of insulins. It is in our country that the fourth insulin company in the world is Indar, to which the State has invested more than 100 million euros in time. Indar has been providing insulin to Ukrainian diabetics since 1999. More than 180,000 Ukrainians need insulin each day. Over the past few years, the situation at the plant has been critical. On the one hand, Ukrainians who received Indian insulin lost their hearing and vision and, on the other hand, they fought for various business groups for which the life and health of Ukrainians were the last place, and on the first, millions of profits and basic theft. The worst part is that for people who run the Indar plant at different times, the enterprise was a personal food business. In 2000, 70 per cent of the shares of the largest insulin company were transferred to the statutory capital of Ukrmedprom State Shareholder. Since then, the Indar factory has launched a real war. Various stakeholders have made every effort to obtain them from Ukrmedprom's statutory capital, thereby depriving States of control over the enterprise. When the Indar campaign became open-minded, the public authorities did not act. Neither the Ministry of Health nor the law enforcement authorities have seen a predominant waste of public property. Only Viktor Yanukovic, then Prime Minister of Ukraine, banned privatization by order in 2007, as well as any other alienation in favour of private members of the Indar ZAO, whose nominal value was more than 50 million bracelets. Contrary to the Ukrainian Act on the Management of Objects of State Property, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic's order in January 2008, when the so-called Democrats headed by Yushchenko were in power, the Director of the State Shareholder Company Ukrmedprom Birukov placed his trust in his post. This trust was authorized to dispose of the company's assets, including the Indara shares, which were owned by the State and could not be sold at the crucifixion of one official's feathers. Nevertheless, in March 2008, the Indar factory’s artificially created executive stock, whose market value was no longer 50 million and 70 million grivens, was sold to the British offshore for 6 million grivens, with less than 10 times their real value. As a result of complex financial affairs, the State received only 47,000 bracelets from the transaction. Just think, 70 million and 47,000 bracelets! Immediately after the shameful transaction, these shares were donated by the British offshore company to another company registered in Tbilisi. Such ingenuity against the Ukrmedprom leadership, which in fact deprived the State of its ownership and control of the production of insulin, has led to criminal proceedings that are still under investigation to date, in violation of the legal deadlines for pretrial investigations. This situation shows very clearly what is the difference between the Yushchenka's loud statements and his actual inaction to protect Indar from the invaders, although they were then directed dozens of appeals from the factory's labour force and from the Ukrainian people's deputies to protect production. The worst part is that attempts by the State to seek justice in the courts have proved hopeless. The Kharkiv County Economic Court has confirmed twice the legality of trade in shares even after the Supreme Court of Ukraine has expressed negative views on this matter. On the night of 7 to 8 July 2011, representatives of offshore companies, using judicial decisions, accompanied by special units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, broke into and controlled the plant, surrounded by guards and barbed wires. On a similar basis, the business group seized a number of pharmaceutical enterprises in Ukraine, one of which is one of the main “Health of the People” in the city of Harkov. These developments have been the result of the inactivity of the State bodies in the protection of public property. The situation has reached a boiling point. It was at the wave of general disappointment that there was no hope that the plant would be returned to the State at the initiative of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, that a temporary commission of inquiry had been established. The task set by the Supreme Council to the Commission was not simple: to investigate the circumstances of the violation of the Indar stock and to determine the reasons for delaying their return to the State. After three years of unsuccessful attempts to protect the enterprise, no one believed in the success of the commission. But I draw your attention, my distinguished colleagues, to the fact that the issue of the protection of Indar has always been on the agenda of the President of Ukraine. As I mentioned, when law enforcement officials and officials failed in 2007, Viktor Janukovic did his best to preserve the plant. Although the Commission of Inquiry is composed of national deputies from all political forces represented in Parliament, the work of the commission of inquiry was almost beyond the political level, since there was a general understanding of what was involved in the strategic enterprise and the health of Ukrainian citizens. The representatives of the BUTT and the NUNS and the LTB and the factions of the Party of the Regions worked closely. We are well aware that different camps can be divided into views, but none of them are the lives and health of Ukrainian patients. I would like to express my individual gratitude to my Vice-Commission member of the Health Committee, Karpuk Vladimir Georgievich. For the investigative commission, the main task was and remains a common line, which is now maintained by both the President of Ukraine and the Government in the face of Minhvod. It was virtually four months after the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry that the Kiev Court of Appeal ordered the return of 70 per cent of Indar shares to the State. This decision has become simply a revolutionary decision, since before that, the courts that have dealt with the Indar issue have ruled in favour of offshore companies whose financial viability and skills we have. There's a lot of doubt. I am sure that this has been achieved through the overall consolidated position of all the participants in the process. I am very grateful to those members of the commission of inquiry who, unlike a number of officials, were not afraid to speak out in public on the situation, to send parliamentary appeals and requests, and to draw the attention of the public. What's the situation with the Indar plant today? Yes, the shares of the enterprise are returned to the State, but it turns out that since two.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u92	Yes, please check whether the microphones work or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u93	Yes, thank you. What's the situation with the Indar plant today? Yes, the stock of the enterprise has been returned to the State, but it turns out that since 2008, the management of the Indar factory, including in the face of Mr. Lazarev, has resulted in almost all its assets, real estate, equipment, patents for a number of personal private structures, acting in principle so that the plant will not be able to house others, we will put them first. Thus, academic Lazarev and his associates were removed from their property for forty million bracelets, only what was known to the commissions. Two criminal cases have been initiated in the course of such operations, one following a ten-month investigation, and you know that over six months of the investigation of extremely complex cases have been closed without the fact of the crime. It is indignant that the case has been buried under the cover of pre-trial investigation rather than in a public trial. The Commission of Inquiry has now requested the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine to repeal the order to close the criminal case. As soon as we started to raise these issues, we immediately received charges from representatives of various social organizations who immediately found themselves in the patronage of Lazarus and the company. During the work of the Commission, it was known that the former factory management strongly lobbyed representatives of one of the political factions. Representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u94	So tell me which ones, then, for the entire Supreme Council to not think about. You're the commission, tell me which one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u95	It is no secret to anyone that the Communist factions are of great interest in this work. The factions of the faction in this faction have done their utmost to ensure that the report does not sound today, and the State has never learned that over the past ten years the leaders who came to Indar have made a sudden break-up and consider the plant as their own business project. Instead of defending the interests of the State, individual representatives defend the interests of their sponsors. One of the investigative commission's meetings was attended by a representative of the plant's management, led by Lazarev, Victor Romanyuk, who stated that the factory's assets were not stolen at all, but were temporarily removed and ready to return to the plant as soon as they returned to it. In other words, for Lazarus and his shareholders, the condition for the return of property to the enterprise is their personal restoration in the status of leadership. But today, the Ministry of Health, which represents the State as the legitimate owner of Indar shares, does not engage in such provocations, realizing that the Indar ex-guide had already become too much of an overriding desire to give Ukraine quality insulin at a normal price. The State has regained Indar's shares, but it turns out that these shares are virtually not backed up. That is why the Ministry of Health of Ukraine today must take all measures to lead to the establishment of new managers capable of, first, establishing the production of insulins of the highest quality and, secondly, ensuring a transparent system of asset management of the plant. Such a mechanism could be ensured by the adoption of a quality new statute for Ukredprom, which would not arbitrarily manage Indar. I understand very well that after Mr. Lazarus led the plant by discrediting his name with dirty business scandals, as well as criminal cases, Cononenko, who has no relation to insulin, it will be very difficult to restore the authority of Ukrainian scientists who have always worked for the benefit of the State, saving the lives of Ukrainian citizens. I believe that those who have literally demolished the factory's assets and those who have allowed the factory to be cleaned up by offshore companies that are behind the business interests of Russian-Ukrainian firms of questionable reputation should be held accountable. Again, it was not for them that the State invested more than 100 million euros in the factory. Dear colleagues! We have much work to do to bring the production of Ukrainian insulin to a qualitatively new level. Ukraine has entered into contracts for the supply of insulin abroad, and we cannot allow Ukraine's partners to question our worth and the ability of the country to keep the situation under control. I want to make the assumption that if this commission of inquiry hadn't been established, millions would have done their dirty work again and the factory would have gone into someone's hands. The Investigative Commission mechanism will allow the State to retain Indar. I understand perfectly that once again, the members of the commission will hear the charges against them, that someone is in charge of the partition, and more than that, it's not a whole lot of dirt that's already spilled, and I'm sure they'll still spill on the commission. It is no longer desirable for individual deputies to report to their sponsors that they have not been able to disrupt the work of the commission. I think that today, when we speak to the people's deputies, we will be able to find out again who really advocates the interests of the State and who is tied to individual names and groups. In order to protect the enterprise, to control the arrival of the new Indar, I ask you, distinguished colleagues, regardless of your political convictions, to support the order extending the duration of the commission of inquiry. I understand that, just as pressure has been exerted on the authorities to close criminal cases, pressure has been exerted on the people's deputies to stop the work of the commission. But the people's deputies should not be provoked and should be more concerned with the mercantile interest. Let's protect Ukrainian insulin, make it even more competitive, prove that we can work in isolation from political beliefs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u96	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, I have such a request, an offer that will bribe you with its novelty. Let's not take a break. At 1:00, let's go straight to the "Virgin" performances. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please sign up for the question. What is the individual opinion? To speak out in private. Unfortunately, I have to say I don't have any papers. If you have it, speak up, no questions asked. We should have submitted to the Presidency. Now, here's a question to the reporter, dear colleagues. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u97	Say, please, Your Honor, is there any interest in a person’s expressing his point of view, his position, his disagreement with your point of view, or is it an interest? Because I see more of your personal interest there than the interests of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Because you're where the weak spot is, you're climbing there, and everything else is when you say it separately. How you worked, how you faked all these reports, will my colleague Sergey Volodymyrovich say. You didn't work, the commission didn't work. And you've taken on such a responsibility - to claim, to make such statements, it's not appropriate. I understand that you're probably a very powerful person, but that's not a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u98	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u99	I want to say that yesterday at the Commission's meeting, there was a clear position, by the way, that Sergey Vladimirovich was referring not to his opinion, but to the opinion of the individual members of your faction, that no protocols would be signed, and in your methodology of your faction, why today. You're talking about the commission's work being carried out illegally, even though it was the Secretary. What's the point? Well, how can it be said "formally," if so. What was her formalism about? Is it that the shares are returned to the State and that today we must obtain and recover property that has been withdrawn from public property to the private structures of Mr. Lazarus? Why does the Communist faction prevent this? Here's the only question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u100	Yes, Vladimir Danilenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Haydaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u102	Tossing a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u103	Thank you. Yuri Haydayav, the Communist faction. Colleague, I'm here. I want to tell you that I don't understand what you're saying about the Communist faction, for a number of reasons. In 2007, your humble servant served as the Minister of Health, and you know it, I have done everything possible and impossible for the Indar factory to be removed from the list for privatization. And Victor Fedorovich Janukovic signed this paper -- that's the first. This is a fact that no one can challenge, and the Chairman of the Commission, including. Next. When we left the government, and in March, if I'm not mistaken, or when we were stolen, I call it "stolen" shares, the first person to raise that question was also your obedient servant. You may take a meeting of our Health Committee, where this matter has been raised. The entire meeting of the Committee was devoted to it. We referred the case on my initiative to the Committee on Organized Evil.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u104	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u105	We referred this to the Committee on Organized Crime, where several, with the participation of the BSS, the police and so on at the level of the deputy ministers, on my initiative, all of this was done. I, a member of the Communist faction, ask you to answer the question. But I think it's a soft expression, well, I don't mean to be rude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u106	Do you know why these doubts arose? Once again, it was after yesterday's meeting of the commission that we, working on the orders of the Supreme Council, were able to recover the shares. But when it became clear that these shares were not confirmed, they were today an empty formality, and we asked a question at a meeting of the commission, but why does your representative clearly want to defend the idea that the property should not be returned to the factory. Why? Explain to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u107	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin. Mr. Chairman, I have a question for you that comes from a thorough introduction to my report. I think it has to be processed, it has to be a clear, legal conclusion. The report should have legal form. Unfortunately, he doesn't have it. It's hard to publish. Although trends are good. I'd like to ask you directly who's behind the privatisation, who's responsible for not being drawn to criminal responsibility by DAC's ex-director Ukrmedprom. First of all, who's behind these people? Who is covering them today? And what today hinders what body today to hold them accountable and to put a dot in this regard? And I'm convinced that the commission of inquiry should continue to work, only the only thing that needs to be done is a little bit of a conclusion, well, like on behalf of the Supreme Council. You can answer these questions like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u109	You know, if we had this information in full, yes, who is the most important stop in the investigation of these cases, the commission would probably have managed its main task within a month. It's a very difficult question, and it's going to be cleaned up in what's called a subversive regime. And I believe that if the work is extended, we will have every reason to come to the truth and report it to the extent required.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u110	There's probably some phone law, some kind of arrangement, after all. What enabled them to transfer assets to private entities in 2008, as a form of good intentions. The same patents, 25 or 27 patents, are placed on private structures. In fact, today the State does not even have the capacity to produce these insulins.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u111	Svetlana Schmelov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u112	Please tell me, how many meetings did you not have a working group quorum? And was your temporary investigator’s working group meeting before today’s performance?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u113	Yesterday, I think there was no quorum. And, well, I'm sorry, however, the regime in which the commission was working was followed by the interest and interest of some deputies, I'm not hiding it. So it can't be said that it was a simple job. But we did our best, and we will do our best. The commission didn't meet right away because there are eternal references to inability. What? Me? On behalf of the Commission. I mean, I didn't get together at first.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u114	Yes, thank you. Gordine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u115	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, member of the commission. I think you won't deny that from the very beginning I insisted that the commission work clearly in accordance with the Supreme Council's Order to conduct the transcripts of meetings and both. Personally, he gave you the commission a huge array of materials that I personally had through parliamentary inquiries and appeals. So, I would like to say, Igor Ivanovich, and ask you. Why didn't the commission support my written proposal on issues that needed to be addressed in the law enforcement agencies, the prosecutors, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health under the transcript, and you could report? What you put out today is not reflected in the report, and nowhere was the vote officially approved. Yesterday, there was no quorum, but there were signs on the towers. That's why this report is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u116	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u117	This report is extremely strange and your accusations against the UK Company are loud because the faction of the Ukrainian Company is constantly insisting that it be returned to state property. And on behalf of the commission, we have to tell you who stole this factory by name and why people aren't held accountable for those who were involved in the destruction of the medical sector. This is our greatest interest. And you said that, unfortunately, it was very difficult to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u118	Sergei Vladimirović, I very much respect your position and your assistance in the work of the Commission, but when it comes to final material and decision-making, I ask you: as a representative of the Communist faction, you will support the Commission's decision so that the final decision will indeed be made objectively. And if.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u119	The meeting was supported, and he wasn't there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u120	Sergei Vladimirovic, well, yesterday's statement that the commission was working in some kind of illegal regime is also a complete, complete invention. Well, Sergey Vladimirovich, well, you have a faction right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u121	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u122	I have my last name there right after Matthew, so I have two minutes. I mean, it was really hard to work, and the Indar Commission is just a test of the state's ability to defend its interests, and a test or a test of Ukraine's ability to fight corruption. As for the position of Commissioner Sergey Gordienka, I wouldn't say that he was defending interests, but he was really putting it at the board meetings, and yesterday, perhaps something hyperbolized brought this information to you, and he was only asking questions about the fact that the Indar Protection Committee had been in shock since 2007. And I can really confirm that because there's a large number of statements to the presidents, to both presidents, to the Cabinet of Ministers of the various warehouses, to the Security Service, to the Attorney General's Office that the shares of the Indar factory are derived from state property, are transferred abroad, that is, roughly speaking, these shares.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u123	Please finish, you have one more minute to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u124	Thank you. And indeed, we cannot leave responsibility solely in the direction of Medprom. I'm going to draw your attention to the fact that, practically after decisions were made on the withdrawal of shares in March, the prosecution only filed a criminal case on October 14th, six months later. And the answers say that these people are already abroad or sick and cannot continue to investigate. Another moment. 2011 From July 7th to July 8th, when the law enforcement authorities, with the participation of state security agencies, take over the Indar plant. It's already been done, the names are linked, they're in the media there were, unfortunately, these people have already gone out of the world, I'm not going to call it, you know, who was behind it. Therefore, there is no need to politicize the work of the commission. And this, once again, has to be continued, proved by the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u125	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u126	My answer will be that Sergey Vladimirovic, as the Commission's secretary, as the representative of the Communist faction, I ask that you support the extension of the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, we're going to talk about the continuation here, because if you're going to do the tasks that were before the commission and what was done, then the commission has done its job. At the very least, the draft decree had to be written in a literate manner. The Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u128	Please pass the word to Hayday.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u129	I've been swinging, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, you know, I've just been reminded by the saying that if there are stars in the sky, it's good for someone. I mean, who doesn't know, insulin is like water, the most serious thing. I didn't drink a day's water, and you could die. The same applies to insulin, the injection did not do everything, and the insulin-dependent people are now in Ukraine about 200,000, serious things. So again, I speak on behalf of the Communist faction. We, as no one else, can lift these documents, and we have opposed this outrage. Why, because it was clearly said that insulin, the Lord God gave us this factory, because it can be recalculated on the fingers, is the national security of the country. It's not in the same document. That's why I would ask you very much. First. Well, maybe bring yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u131	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u132	I think I know you, you're a decent person, so I think you're hot. And I think if you apologized for that, it would be nice. And second, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u134	Well, my answer is, if this is a faction's position, then I'm willing to apologize, not paying attention to loud remarks from the place, yes, by giving some of the characteristics of the impolite, if the Communist faction supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u135	Because I'm sure there are factions who are not interested in returning public property, that's what I'm sure. If you think I'm wrong, I'm ready to apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u136	Sergey the Upper, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u137	Dear voters! Upstairs, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." I think that we're all witnesses now, as the clans of power are doing this with regard to property, property that is very and very important to our citizens. I agree that insulin is really water for those who really need it. And these rallies that we're seeing today, they just confirm that the authorities don't want our citizens to be 100 percent provided with their own home insulin. And that's why I didn't hear, unfortunately, in the report of the commission, what steps should be taken to get this factory to work for the state, to work for our citizens, not to hear these squabbles between the clans of power, I emphasize once again. So I really want you to tell me what to do today and who to do it to.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u138	Today, the main task remains to transfer assets to private entities, once again to the State. That's what this is all about. Because the return on shares that took place is a formal part of the issue, they are not confirmed by property. With regard to your indignation that this is going on between the clans or something else, I would like to point out that this is all at the initiative of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic. But he probably can't, as your political leader, afford to do pear on swine flus and on programs where millions and billions of dollars of budget money have been cheated, thus damaging the health of the nation. Well, it wasn't given to Victor Fedorovich. So let's just help the investigative commission finish their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u139	Verni Dubov. Well, you'll have the opportunity to speak, please. Oh, come on. You've confused me so much, you're not going anywhere. Well, please! There will be no speeches, there will be a special thought. It's time for Lechchenko Volodymir to speak. One minute! Verni Dubov. Please, Vladimir Lechchenko. Who's it gonna be? Gadhadya? Microphone. Well, you see, it's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u140	Well, thank you. Well, I'm just a doctor, that's all. And I know the subject, that's why. Dear friends! I would like to tell the previous speaker about the clan fighting there, and so on, on the left side of the hall, that the factory was in a hurry -- I'm sorry, I can't say another word -- it was stolen in 2008, when you were in power. And all of these misdemeanors with property were in 2008, 2009, 2010. That's a word, a trailer. It's true, it is. No one can accuse me of lying. And the rapporteur. I wanted to ask you a question. Say, please, again, do you think that if a person, a people's MP, is referring to a commission, they ask you to consider a document, it's a pressure on the commission or what it is? It's a serious question, isn't it? I mean, he can't just do what you want as president, he's just like you. Answer that question, you accused him of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u141	No, I didn't, I had the opportunity to assume that, and today it will also be a clear lactus paper, i.e. whether the faction is interested in the commission continuing its work or not. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, questions. Those who felt that they needed answers had already received a complete list of registered deputies. Have a seat, please. A special thought, five minutes, Sergey Gordijenko, please. Then let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u143	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! I have this opportunity to bring my own opinion to the entire public of Ukraine, and I would like to state at the outset that the faction of the Ukrainian Company has always stood in the interest of the state and has never voted or taken part in any privatisation process. What I'd like to say is that when the Indar factory's labor team, together with the management, turned to all the institutions, he didn't find any support. To whom else did this group need to be addressed? Of course, to the Communist faction, which consistently defended their interests. As part of the insulin plant, as in a drop of water, all the disgraceful forms of looting our people's acquisitions and the role of our Ukrainian authorities from the highest to the lowest levels of law enforcement in these matters, which, instead of protecting our country's national interests, were actually "crippling" these processes. Why did I as a member of the committee take the floor and have a separate opinion? And how does it differ from the position of the commission? First of all, the commission, in my opinion, has not made every effort to carry out the tasks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which have been decided accordingly. Most of the sessions of the commission were virtually non-blending, and the meetings were neither held nor properly reasoned on. Secondly, the commission, although in its words, supported my written proposal on issues that needed to be addressed in an appropriate manner, was to conduct investigations under the transcripts of prosecutors, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health, but did not. It is also unclear why key issues have not yet been explored regarding the involvement of a group of connected persons who have freely seized a whole range of state assets that have been part of the DAC's Feedingprom system, including the Indar plant, and have not yet been punished, why no pretrial investigation has been carried out. Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, the reasons for the constant appeal of the Working Group and the former management of the Indar factory to the threats that have arisen over the only state-owned insulin plant to the Office of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney-General's Office, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, but they have not been heard, and the protection against these organs authorized by the highest labour group itself has not been protected from the raid. There wasn't. But it's ours. And our, I would like to stress again, is that the Interim Investigation Commission is formed on the basis of the insistence of the Committee for the Protection of the Insulin Plant, not by any initiative of the public authorities. Why did the MoH of Ukraine allow for the alienation of the Indar stock and its fascination and change of leadership for offshore companies? But many other questions. The answer is one: The authorities knew about the intent to steal a package of shares, contributed greatly, and officials failed to fulfill their responsibility to protect Ukraine’s national interests. What do we have today? There is a threat that 1.2 million diabetics will be left out of work, and ownership will continue, a factory will pass on to a foreign company. People say that if the blame for the destruction of the medical sector of Ukraine and the kidnapping of the government's "Indar" stock package is not punished, that means that the whole Ukrainian government is in the country's hands and is in charge of these processes. Suggestion: The work of the TSC should be continued, all the circumstances of the theft of state property investigated, the responsibility of those responsible, and the truth of all those involved in this kidnapping brought to society. Law enforcement should not wait for direction, but it is now time for investigations to be conducted, and humans to be punished. There was no commission yesterday, and it wasn't an official vote to approve the report, either.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u144	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u145	What was said by the head here during the report does not reflect even the report that was signed in the watchtowers. I thank you for your attention and ask for the work of the commission of inquiry to be supported. These are all appeals by the labour force since 2005, to which the highest officials of the state have not responded. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine supported this labor force and the committee for the protection of the insulin plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision. Be careful, I'll read it because we need it legally. The chief legal authority had already edited it so that we would not return to it. Decision of the Supreme Council on the report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the circumstances that led to the situation surrounding the Indra ZAT. "After hearing the report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the circumstances that led to the situation surrounding the ZAT Indra, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. A report from the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances that led to the situation that has arisen around the ZAT "Indar" to take note. [[Next - Temporary Investigation Commission]] The other one. The interim investigator of the commission to report to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service for appropriate response. Third. Recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine ensure a transparent and open process of preparation, and adopt a new draft of the DAC Code "Ukremedprom" in order to prevent the illegal alienation of the State's corporate rights, ensure that insulin production is preserved for the PRAT of Indar Insulins ZAT "Indar". Four. Recommend to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, within its competence, to take steps to ensure that criminal cases are investigated as comprehensively as possible, objectively as possible, in order to investigate the situation surrounding the Indar ZAT. Fifth. To publish a report from the interim commission of inquiry in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Six. This decision takes effect from the day it was adopted." I'm voting on the basis of this draft regulation. Please vote. Based on the base. [[12:25:50]] For 310 Copy that. If anyone has any comments, any corrections, please log in. Please, Arjevitin. Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u147	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". There was also an offer in the report of the commission’s chairman in order to continue the work of the Interim Investigation Commission. We have a fear that once again it won't remain on the halfway road, that there really will be a clear plan in the Ministry of Defense that we've approved on the interim commission of inquiry, on the return of shares and their actions, that we need to control. The work of law enforcement agencies should be monitored, and a number of other questions should be asked. Because, Adam Ivanovich, it's not here yet, but I'm paying attention to the work of the judicial system. Because it opened the way for the privatisation of the decision of one of the District Courts of Chernigiv, the next work of the Kyiv Economic Court of Appeal, when, for the first time in Ukraine, the full court refused the trial twice. It's never been like this before. That's what the Justice Council should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u148	It's a shame the TSC didn't do it. In fact, it failed to perform its function, which is why we created it. I mean, let's do some more work. Yes, Tarasjuk, please. None. There's no Taraszuk. Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u149	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Please give the word to Gordian Sergey, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u150	Sergei Gordienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Let's talk about it. I don't understand, if we print, let's print. But this report, I emphasize once again, there was no quorum, it was not officially approved by the committee meeting. This time. And secondly, if it's printed, I insist that it be included in the project, which a particular thought should be printed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u152	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I fully support Mr. Gordienko's position that if there were no quorum and no decision was taken, there would be no need to publish. This time. Second. As the new Minister of Health has come, the new old Minister, who is on the subject, but should not be deeply involved in the subject, I would suggest that this proposal should be made with two paragraphs. First: The information is to be accepted. And the second paragraph is to lengthen the work of the commission. That's it. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health will continue to bring them to an end.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u154	We've already accepted it as a basis, so we can't go back. There's no other offer? Then, dear fellows, I will now put two motions to the vote. The proposal was to continue the work of the TSC. If we support her, we will now determine how much to continue her. And the second sentence will then be voted on separately. Who's in charge of continuing the TSC? And let's just get right on it, for what, for what time? A month? How much? Yes, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u155	Before it's done, I'm sorry if it's done before it's done. Yeah, let's count months and logic and logic and logic. Not until July 15, because we need to hear the report, they won't report it. Let's do it by 1 July of this year. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[12:30:21]] For 270. So continue the work of the commission until 1 July. And the second was the proposal: to delete the 5th item for publishing the report to the commission, because unfortunately, we don't have a report like this. Please support this proposal to exclude an item from the reporting order. What's more, we're going to think it's a preliminary report. When we hear the final report, we will publish it. Please support this proposal. [[12:31:07]] For 237 Taking into account the two amendments we have adopted regarding the continuation of the commission's work by July 1st and the removal of the item on the publication of the previous report of the commission, I am calling for a vote to be taken as a whole. Please vote. [[12:31:41]] For 273 One thought is in the transcripts of the Supreme Council, but we don't publish anything. Yes, dear colleagues, we'll work with you for another 20 minutes until 13 and then it'll be "Virgin." We should be looking at Bill 9662 right now. However, in view of the need, this is a bill that deals with the organisation of the work of the appropriate services during the Euro - 2012 meeting, there is still a need for reconciliation between the authorities. Including the Ministry of Internal Affairs asking for it to be suspended for the time being. So let's not look at it right now. [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u156	Do you need a vote? Please. Who, in order to postpone the consideration of question 9662 of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts, please support. [[on ensuring public order and security before, during and after football matches]] [[12:32:58]] For 241 We've got it. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to regulate the financing of parties. [[Registration number 2475]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:33:27]] For 217 Offer supported. Thank you. Hennady Hennadiovich Moskal reports. Get ready. Get ready. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! The adoption of the Ukraine Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of the financing of political parties will help to increase transparency in the financing of political parties, to overcome and prevent political corruption and to buy "carcases" in the Supreme Council and to strengthen the political system and democracy in Ukraine. What is proposed? Clearly identify sources of financing for political parties, complement the list of restrictions on the financing of political parties, supplement the Ukrainian Political Parties Act with new articles addressing the characteristics of private financing of political parties in monetary and monetary forms, the opening, closing and operation of a single collective account of voluntary donations for the benefit of political parties, the identification of opportunities for both citizens of Ukraine and legal persons to make voluntary donations for the benefit of political parties in monetary form, the writing of a mechanism for processing and reporting on the coming and use of voluntary donations for the benefit of political parties and the benefit of voluntary donations for the benefit of political parties. The supplement also refers to the requirements for a financial report on income and expenditure, such as the annual declaration of voluntary donations to the political parties for the corresponding financial year, as well as the definition of responsibility for breaching political party legislation on private financing of political parties. In addition, the bill foresees a series of changes to Ukraine’s legislation and the Code of Administrative Offences. No extra expenses from the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u158	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u159	No additional expenditure from the state budget is foreseen. We're about to have an election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, so that we don't accuse each other, come on, please, let's take this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u160	Thank you. Head of the Legislative Security Committee. Head. on matters of state construction and local self-government, Horny Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u161	Honorary colleagues, honourable chairman, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, discussed on 21 September 2011 a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the regulation of party financing, submitted in exchange for the Ukrainian national deputy Hennadi Moskal. [[Registration number 2475]] The project envisages amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies, on Elections of the President of Ukraine, on Elections of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on Local Councils and on Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, which introduce new rules for the formation of electoral funds, which provide for the possibility of filling them at the expense of the only cumulative account of voluntary donations in favour of political parties. In addition, the project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, which provides for administrative responsibility for violating the financing of political parties. The bill proposes to regulate the legal issue of financing political parties, namely the identification of sources of financing for political parties, the scope and manner of voluntary donations made by natural, legal persons, restrictions on voluntary donations, controls on their arrival and use. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the proposed bill has an impact on the budget expenditure. The Committee on Legal Policy notes that the provisions of the bill are not in line with part one of article 8, article 22, part one of article 32 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and recommends that the subject be reinstated as a result of the first reading of the draft law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the draft law be adopted on the basis of mandatory consideration of the comments made.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u162	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u163	In view of the above, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts on the regulation of party financing, submitted in exchange for the national deputy of Ukraine, Gennady Moskal, on the basis of a first reading review of the return of the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. [[Registration number 2475]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u164	Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Yes, please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko – "The Fatherland", town of Kirovograd. I have to say that our colleague Moskal really knows how to find one of those, well, the point of social importance. We understand this very well, and that's what every Ukrainian citizen knows, that today, under a swan, as it were, the political party is very often driven by huge money, so huge that it can even be equal to the national budget. Because, well, tell me, where did Ribakova get that kind of money to pay for half-dead or dead souls of carcases, to pay, "Chiki-Piki," 450,000 and pay every month for 25 thousand more for a successful vote and so on. Because of this, we would certainly need to make this situation clear. And the money that the political party has, it has to have it, it's the same contribution, it's fixed in the bill here, it's the same, let's say, the donation, and the money, and the property, and so on. It's perfectly clear, but all of this has to be transparent. Because it seems to me that the bill, I understand very well that it's hardly voted by the Party of Regions, Mr. Moskal, a colleague of ours, but what we're doing today is actually printing it and we want to make it transparent. There's something we can argue with in this bill. Some, for example, have only point points that are not entirely accurate. But to know exactly what the party owns, and these costs must be transparent and understandable to society, it is absolutely necessary. Because I want to thank Moscow for this bill. And I'm convinced that sooner or later, if it doesn't pass today, I think it will pass when these guys finally sit in their seats. It is said that when things are in place, some will no longer have enough space. I don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u166	Vladimir Karpuk. After him Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u167	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". I also support the author of the legislative initiative, and Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, that the cost of political parties should be filled with transparency, transparency. So is income, so is spending. Of course, no one will back this bill before the election. In the media, we often find the thoughts of the authors. who have their own informants, that the party list of each party, depending on their ability and location, could be $10 million. How these funds are used, how we don't know. If you even read reports that were formed once and returned from the State Budget to the electoral campaign to the parties that went to parliament, of course, these costs that were published, and those costs that were actually, who were involved in the electoral process, that they were disproportionate. They're under-ordered. And everyone knows that every election campaign is a food service for many people, especially those who run a party and their family. So this is a very relevant idea, and we support this proposal. Although, of course, there are some comments, they could be worked out later, but this is a bill that needs adoption. Therefore, the eve of parliamentary elections and the numerous statements that these elections will be democratic, transparent, especially in a proportional system, although it is the government's leadership that says that there will be no such transparency in the majority districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u168	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u169	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In principle, we consulted and wanted to support this bill, if not for one "but". The issue was that the opposition did not support the law. If you model the situation. We'll support it. How does this end? Well, we supported Natalia Jurievna once, and she was expelled from the faction. So little was thrown out of the faction, as she said, another knife was put in her back by two B.U.T. hammers and turned. We supported Karmazin's energy bill - he was declared a traitor. Yesterday the holy woman, the holy woman of the opposition, declared Mr. Yatsenuk a traitor. Well, the author defended it, but it sounded like the whole country. If we support the author today and his traitor is announced, then we will have an appearance, the opposition will be treacherous, traitorous opposition! And then, it turns out, the Party of the Regions makes a historic decision: in order to protect the author's clean name, so as not to discredit the opposition, so as not to discredit Ukraine in Europe, well, we are treacherous. If there is a traitorous opposition, who will take us to Europe? We have decided on behalf of Ukraine to overthrow the law!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u170	The decision will be in the name of Moscow's salvation. Chaplain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u171	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You know, we're not going to support this bill, I'm going to give a thorough confirmation of that, but I'd like to start with Mr. Yavorowski. You know, your honor, whether I'm a colleague of mine, grief-screaming, you don't have to give names or nicknames to those you're used to giving in Soviet times. I'd like to remind you how a psychologist is that only teenagers and criminals, maybe the ones you belong to, give names, so, get rid of such a defect, that's the first. The second is about this bill. You know, you heard something, you didn't know what you were going to do. So today, who is preventing the political party from giving public financial statements about the money received? Who? Should this be regulated in legislation? This is essentially a political responsibility. And the fact that this law violates five parts does not change the laws on political parties, on the Tax Code and is merely of a declarative nature is the truth. We really want to settle this question, but not in this way. We won't vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u172	Well, Moscal was mentioned, so please have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the right to repeat. Since Chechtov protected me, thank him. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the three requirements of PARENTS. This is not an initiative, reverend, read, the three demands of PARENTS: to show transparency in financing the political parties of Ukraine. Read the Resolution, the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the honourable regionals! I understand that you don't need to save me, first of all, and you want to show me. You don't want to show off your Party of Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u174	Discussing the question. You, Volodymyr. You exchanged lines, you called the group "Reforms for." What's that for? She answered you. So, I'm sorry, well, we can't go on forever. I am betting on voting: to accept as a basis, although the conclusion of the Main Committee is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work, to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to regulate the financing of the parties. Registration number 2475. [[12:47:53]] For-57 There is a proposal for the committee to reintroduce the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[12:48:17]] For-44 Moscal's saved - 44! The bill was rejected. A bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local and Rural Councils, Rural, Rural, Rural, Urban Heads is under consideration, registration number 7229. [[on the responsibility for elevating members of the political party from another political party]] There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please be supportive. [[12:49:03]] For 190 Supported. Author Katerina Lukyanova I can't see. Please, Sergey Podgorny, from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! At its meeting on 16 November 2011, the Committee appointed by the Head of the Supreme Council reviewed the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, on the responsibility of elevating members of the political party from another political party, submitted by the People's Deputy Catherine Lukyanov. [[Registration number 7229]] The bill proposes to supplement articles 44 and 45 of the Ukrainian Law "On Elections of National Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads" with additional grounds for refusing to register and cancel the registration of a candidate for a local council, a candidate for rural, rural and urban office, whose application violated the requirements of section 2 of article 36 of the Act. This means that the party has the right to put either a member of the party or a non-party member. The Committee on Legal Policy, having considered the bill in accordance with its Constitution, noted in its conclusion that its position was not in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Results noted that the proposed revision does not have an impact on the income and expenditure of government and local budgets, resulting in the adoption of the relevant law in order to take effect from the date of publication. The Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having considered the bill to comply with the Rules, concluded that the bill had been drafted and registered in accordance with the requirements of articles 90-92 of the Rules. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having examined the bill, has not expressed any fundamental objections to its content, particularly that the Administration considers that the provision proposed to supplement articles 44 and 45 of the Law "On the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the locals."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u176	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u177	heads" is not a principle novel, but is of a precise nature. The committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Catherine Lukyanov, following a first reading review of the re-establishment of the right to work. [[on the responsibility for elevating members of the political party from another political party]] [[Registration number 7229]] Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u178	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? It's all clear. I then put to the vote the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the election of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural and urban heads. [[on the responsibility for elevating members of the political party from another political party]] [[Registration number 7229]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:52:54]] For-7. Not supported. The committee's proposal is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:53:19]] For-12. The bill was rejected. Perhaps, dear colleagues, given that we've been working for two weeks, let's start "Virgin" seven minutes early. Please sign up. Please point it on the board. Up to 13 hours 53 minutes. Please, Ivan Sidelnik. Prepare Fedorchuk. You're an ass. Dear colleagues! Please don't come near me to anyone who isn't in the session room. I'm sorry, but that's the order. Please, Siddelnik's handing over the Ass. Prepare Fedorchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u179	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! In my speech, I would like to draw attention to the situation in the village of the Red Ukraine of the Mikolai region. What happened? In the middle of the day, in a country with a 300-thousand army of internal affairs workers, a man disappeared untraceablely, the village head of the Red Ukraine of the Mikolai district of Horbatenko Yuri Mikolaiovich. Briefly on the events of the last day that Yuri Gorbatenko was seen. On the morning of March 6, 2012, according to previous messages by Yuri Horbatenko, along with the secretary of the Selrada and the executives, arrived in the city of Berezanka, Mikolai district, to meet with the district branch investigator. But the meeting between the invitee and the investigator did not take place because the investigator immediately left for Coblevo, with a report by Yuri Horbatenko and his colleagues from the Paradise Department. On the evening of the same day, about 18 hours later, the secretary of the silrada decided to return home, and Yuri Horbatenko decided to wait for the investigator. Upon returning home, her colleagues noticed that the bag and his belongings and his mobile phone were in their car. There was no proper connection with the Horbatenko. From that time on, no one has seen or heard from Yuri the Horbatenko. I learned that the pressure on Gorbatenka began in November 2011 after a decision was taken by a syllabus concerning a private enterprise in the area of land use of an area of 500 hectares in fact on a free basis, which was handed over to an enterprise for 49 years in 2006. I ask that you consider the MP's request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. We demand that those in charge take personal control of the matter and take all immediate steps to ensure the full, objective and impartial investigation of the untraceable disappearance of the Red Ukraine’s head, Gorbatenko Yuri Mikolaiovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u180	Yes, please, Fedorchuk. I won't. Zubanov, please. Sorry, no one gets a word from anyone who doesn't have one. There's a Zubanov. Please pass it on to Mutz. Please. The next one's a Cossack. Zubanov, show yourself because they say you're not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u181	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. The country's most large-scale independence reform that Ukraine has long been waiting for, thanks to the President. After all, many problems have been overlooked for 20 years, including in Ternopils. Schools, clubs, medical stations, and post offices have been found in many villages and closures. Whole villages were found on the brink of extinction. The lack of professionalism of the local authorities has led to a loss of faith in the fact that the situation can be rectified. To justify his inaction, local officials nod to the capital, putting all responsibility upon it. For example, this year in Ukraine is declared a year of culture. Programmes for support and development of rural club facilities were adopted in the area by 2015. However, most of the country's heads, vol. clubs don't even know or hear about it. To rekindle people's feelings on their own land, to force local authorities to exercise their powers, to remind officials that they are community service -- this is the goal of the "Ternpolska Representation" community. One of the tasks of representation is to set up a dialogue between government and the community, to make local authority dependent on people and responsible. The main thing in the field is that no one but the inhabitants of the region will change the situation for the better. Because the state starts with a hamlet, a village. And how we can make life here, that's how it's going to be in the state. In each of the 1,056 locations in the area, the creation of local representations of Ternopolska, which bring together 20, 30 leaders of public opinion, is completed. They know the problems and prospects of the community, want and can improve their lives. Even now, the representation of Ternopolska brings together more than 20,000 patriots, the true elite of our country. It's a great force that can bring about positive transformations, subdue the shoulders of the head of state on the path of reform, restoring the economy. The President of Ukraine rightly stresses: "The reform of the country must consolidate society." To rebuild the Ukrainian village is to unite the community around the common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u182	Yes, please, Kozub. He's handing over Popescu. Prepare Gordy Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u183	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The Ministry's reconciliation now includes a project of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's "Some Issues of Use in 2012 of State Capital Investments", which is scheduled to be transferred to the Ministry of Finance in 2012, the General Fund of the State Budget of the Programme 3511090 "State Capital Expenditure" distributed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, amounting to 1 billion dollars, the chief budget manager. [[budget expenditure]] At the request of the Montenegrin State Administration, I draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to those areas of the social sphere of the Chernobyl area that have already been voted on in this Hall and to the need to predict the necessary funding in 2012. I would like to remind you that the 2012 State Economic and Social Development Programme and the main development directions for 2013-2014, which we approved together with the 2012 State Budget, are foreseen, inter alia, in the section of the Chernobyl area, the funding for the construction of schools in the village of Jordanesti Globicki district – 5 million, the villages of Ternavuk in the region – 8 million, the villages of Tisovec in the Stražinecki region – 10 million, the villages of Magala in the Novoselicki district – 3.8 million, the villages of Lužani in the Kitzman region – 5.5 million, the villages of Zrub in the Komarovsky Stražinec region – 10 million, the villages of Mošanec in the Kielmenice region – 14 million, and the schools in the village, the village of Krasniolski village – 7 million. Funding for the construction of two kindergartens was also approved, in the deep area in the village of Sprisheni – 7.8 million dollars, in the village of Stanovci – 3.3 million dollars. There were 8.2 million bracelets for the restoration of the Černovetsek Music Dramatic Theatre called Kobiljanski in the city of Chernivci. Funding was also provided for six health - care facilities, including 10.8 million for maternity homes in Hotin, 4.16 million for the reconstruction of an antituberculosis clinic in the village of Krasnoylsk, 10 million for the rehabilitation of a children’s hospital on Bukovinska Street, and 2 million for the capital repair of a children’s hospital in Chernovec, 11 million 640,000 for the construction of food units at the children’s health care center, and 10 million for the capital repair of a hospital for emergency care on the street of Fastovska in Chernivec. On the basis of the foregoing, I turn to the Cabinet of Ministers to provide for appropriate funding for the above - mentioned objects when allocating budgetary resources in the state’s capital expenditure. Dear Adam Ivanovich, please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u184	Yes, please, Sergey Gordienka. It will be followed by John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u185	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The Honourable Chairman, colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, a series of Ukrainian laws and the Cabinet of Ministers Order of August 1998 No.1303 on the organization of free and unpaid medical leave under medical prescriptions in the case of outpatient treatment of individual population groups and certain categories of disease are provided for free or extended medical leave. These categories include persons who predict the free release of medicines under the Law on the Status of War and the Guarantee of Social Protection, "On the Basic Principles of Social Protection for Labour Veterans and Other Elderly Citizens in Ukraine", "On the Status and Social Status of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster", and other categories. In addition, the designated categories of persons in the special appendix number two of the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since August 1998 set out the list of diseases in the case of outpatient treatments that are released free of charge, including cancers, haematological diseases, diabetes, and many other diseases. Free of charge or under the sick, medical devices for domestic and foreign production should be released according to the list approved by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers of September 5, 1996, No. 1071. Costs related to the cost of medical supplies are charged to health authorities at a place where they are actually released. Yet, because of the extremely low funding of the health sector, these laws and regulations are not implemented. I have received many petitions from citizens about the fact that the local executive authorities have given oral instructions to the hospital authorities not to write prescriptions for medicines to people with disabilities who have the right to do so in accordance with the laws. Few people at personal receptions say that executive heads on the scene cynically claim that they have not written and will not write out, for there is no cost, but to buy these drugs, go and beg. And that goes against the background of the big talk about social initiatives. This provokes resentment on the part of people who have the misfortune of being disabled, who have little pensions and social assistance, and who cannot make ends meet. People rightly turn to the fact that no previous authorities have allowed themselves to do so, and I am a cynical form of accelerating the extinction of people. Therefore, I ask that my statement be an official appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Minister of Health regarding the failure of the executive authorities and officials of the health institutions of the Ukrainian legislation on the provision of tax categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u186	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u187	The need for a comprehensive national solution to this problem is free of charge. Thank you for your attention, and please contact the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u188	Thank you. John the Rabbit. Prepare for Argentinus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u189	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! In recent times, the President and government officials have made many allegations that a national producer should be supported, that the internal market should be protected from uncontrollable imports, and that a large-scale import should be carried out. Some even dared to repeat the slogan of the Ukrainian People's Party: "Make Ukrainian, buy Ukrainian, defend Ukrainian!" But the fact is that these correct words have not turned into appropriate government programs is in no way confirmed by the actions of the authorities, on the contrary, many of the actions of the present authorities are harmful to all Ukrainians. Here are some examples. All machine building in the country needs to be restored and modernized. To start to improve the situation in this area, it takes less than a lot of power, because in many ways there are a lot of scientific developments, there are frames, there are enterprises that have created examples of competitive serial production. But the government doesn't encourage the purchase of a national producer, it doesn't help to find a market for it. There are thousands of concrete examples of President Yanukovic's indifference, the government, the parliamentary majority, to the problems of the national producer. This is best seen in the example of the CAP and agriculture. There are industrial designs of military screwdrivers, planes, tanks, rocket launchers, and so forth, but not only does the government rush to order them for its own army, but it holds them back. There are their own combines, but the government is encouraging foreign purchases. Native locomotives and wagon manufacturers, such as the Krukow Wagon Repair Plant, were hoping to obtain a Eurofutball order for their production. They've already released a competitive high-speed train for inter-regional communication with high-comfort cars. The interlocutor commission has made good use of their serial production, but the government has ordered 10 similar Korean manufacturers, 4 of whom will reach Ukraine since the Euro - 2012 era. They're said to have stayed with a big nose. It is worth saying that this Korean contract will cost Ukraine nearly $150 million more than it did in the case of purchases from a national producer. What, then, is the state’s approach? Where is the protection of national interests? Where's your support? Where is the import policy? Where will jobs come from? Where is the wages for the Ukrainians? The truth is, "Finish, father, trade, for soon there will be nothing to give." Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party requires our government to change its policies regarding the national manufacturer. It has to develop programs to support national production. It has to work to build an internal market, to form a plateau. The buyer, and to that end, requires the doctrine of expensive labor. Our authorities are finally going to run import programs. Because if we go like this, we'll have no agriculture, no industry. Today is a moment that requires decisive action, not words.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u190	Thank you. Arzhevtine Stanislav. Prepare Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u191	My speech is to those public organizations that protect the interests of bank investors. This is a reference to 22 million Ukrainians who are investors in the banking system. Obviously, these 22 million Ukrainians do not yet know that the Supreme Council, and a few days ago with the signature of the President of the Law, have been deprived of the State guarantee of compensation for 150 000 dollars in contributions to the troubled bank. This decision was taken by the Supreme Council of Deputies of the Party of the Regions, the People's Party of Lithuania, a group of deputies of the Reforms for the Future. I would like to remind you that before the adoption of this law, the Population Guarantee Fund was a state-level specialized institution that performed public administration functions in the area of public investment guarantees. [[I'm underlining.]] Now, the Population Deposit Guarantee Fund is a normal institution with commercial functions, with overloaded anti-insolvent banking functions, i.e. sales and reselling of these banks. As for the 150,000 dollars that were guaranteed. I'm reading a piece of legislation that's been in place recently: "The foundation as a state institution guarantees a bank investor compensation for their investments in each of the banks in the size of the contribution, including interest accrued, in size, but not more than 150,000 dollars. Today's edition says, "The Fund guarantees no more than the amount of the contribution set by the Governing Board." So now it's not the law, and the fund's officials are going to determine this size. I'm bringing in the figures: there are over 200 billion deposits today, a $5 billion guarantee fund. You can take the calculator and figure out what they can guarantee. What has happened in other parts of the world? I've got a license plate, I'll only bring a few countries around the world. Almost the whole of Europe has doubled its national coverage from 20 million to 50 million euros. Russia, from 400,000 to 700,000, Kazakhstan, from 700,000 to five million, some countries from 50,000 euros to 100,000 euros, we have a reverse situation. So my conclusion is this: I'm going to social organizations. This law will enter into force as the law of September 21, 2012. I think it's a matter of shock, of turning to the President of Ukraine, to the National Bank, of returning to the People's Deposit Guarantee Fund state status, of returning compensation to 150,000 as a rule of law. Let's build a European deposit guarantee system together, and my request is to officially count the request to the President and head of the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u192	Thank you. Cowchuck. He's got a tooth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u193	Basil Krawczuk, Faction "BUT" – "Fathership", Hmelnickin. The spring that I came to see, I'm as unhappy as the millions of agrarians in the country. The situation in the agro-industrial complex today is very dangerous for both the Ukrainian peasant and the national security of Ukraine. During the last three years, the fall was drying, with a record of water shortages in the soil’s ore layer, and the osmia was sown late. The frosts, which in February reached 30 degrees Fahrenheit [30 ° C], will have to be sifted on nearly two million acres [2 million ha]. The projected yield will be lower than last year, and the total gross will, at best, reach 13 million tons. As for the winter rape, there'll be half of it here. The villagers wait, not even for help, but for salvation. What about the government and the Ministry of Profiles? Budget support mechanisms for the spring-field work complex are currently only in projects. When will government aid come to the agrarians? Food security is now becoming a real prospect, not a vain one, and it can lead to irreparable consequences. Ukraine can be turned into a fire of upheavals or social upheavals. Is that why the 2012 budget envisions unprecedented expenditures on the force? Or is this the result of the government’s and the President’s activities in the world of land market management and the destruction of agriculture as a social divide of Ukrainian society? Under conditions created by the present - day authority of peasants no less than a period of time, they fear a government official and a bureaucrat. He considers the executive authority of all levels to be deaf to the problems of the village, corrupt and cynical. And in the meantime, it's only official statistics that make 17-18 villages disappear every year. I think that's a lot more because it's hard to call the village of a bunch of abandoned houses where a few dozen grandmothers live, schools are closed, FAPs and clubs are closed. Today, the rural population is 30 percent. To what is a third of Ukrainian citizens now predestined, ignoring the real help of a Ukrainian peasant who is to be a real master on Ukrainian soil? Cheap fuel and minibars are either unforeseeable or unforeseeable. Chemical oligarchs are not even going to follow government orders. The same is true of 120,000 tons of fuel that are likely to be used in the same way as mineral fertilizers. In the current year, the general budget of the State budget for agrarian development has decreased by 8 times compared to 2008 and is only 6.5 billion dollars. I don't mind having a football championship, but the 20 billion dollar amount for it sounds like insults and humiliations for those who work hard in the fields and live in poverty. I call for an end to the destruction of the Ukrainian village, because the next is the destruction of Ukraine itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u194	Valentin Zubov, get ready, helmet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u195	Valentin Zubov, President of the Ukrainian People's Labour Union political party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Today, in my statement, I wish to return to Nikolai without any particular pleasure, but I believe that the savage crime that has taken place, and the main comments in the media, put back on the agenda, to this very sad, tragic fact, in order to reach the right conclusions. The topics discussed are mainly those of the non-professional work of the internal affairs authorities, the Public Prosecutor's Office and so on. But I think it's the top of the iceberg that's come up with the biggest problem in 20 years. We must recognize that in 20 years of independence, thanks to efforts, including people's deputies, public authorities, we have raised, returned, not raised, but formed a whole generation of 20-year-old cynics and villains, for whom human life is nothing. It's a good thing that the Nicaraguans have been so active in this problem, but I want to point out that three days after this incident in Poltava, two girls were making fun of their third girlfriend all night. The SS rested on the forms of violence, abuse that these young girls had committed vis-à-vis their colleagues, and then threw her off the 4th floor. A week later, despite the tremendous resonance of the country’s Nicaraguan events, five morons and herds in Umana are raping the girl. These facts, if we link them together, say only one thing: not only have cynics been brought up, the most violent killers - we have raised people who care about public opinion, the rules of law, the sacred things that should actually be in a person if he is a normal person. Therefore, in recognition of this fact, we must conclude that we have raised a generation of people with whom speaking the normal human language makes no sense, and we must speak to these people at the level of instinct. That is why there is only one way out, and our political force, the People's Labour Union of Ukraine, if we go to Parliament for the next assembly, we will not only ask the question, we will do everything we can to ensure that the death penalty in Ukraine is reinstated immediately. And not because we're so cruel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u196	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u197	Because there are simply no other forms and methods of education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u198	Thank you. Schlemko and Jereshko are taking the floor for Shustik. She has six minutes. Moses will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u199	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, the declaration of the "BUT" faction "Fathership" in the Supreme Council on the cessation of political repression against the leaders of the opposition. "Julia Tymoshenko's sad judgment in the so-called gas case of all the civilized world was clearly regarded as selective justice and the attempt by President Timoshenko to eliminate the political activity of his main opponent by criminal persecution. Knowing the high probability of the European Court of Human Rights abolishing the illegal seven - year imprisonment of the leader of the Ukrainian opposition, Janukovic decided to turn it into a 12 - year - old, for which he resuscitated the introduction into a long closed court that had been forged before President Kuchma of the EESU case. During the last four months of the presidential will, the patient, chained to the bed of Tymoshenko, is being investigated, processed, and made aware of the material of the case. All with one goal: to bring this criminal case to trial next week. What exactly is this new accusation against Julius Timoshenko? In fact, 15 years ago, when Timoshenko was no longer a member of the EESU company, the director and accountant of the company submitted a tax return declaration to the Tax Office. I.D. checked and determined that she felt that this compensation had no basis. This would seem to be a common situation for each entrepreneur. But the Ukrainian Security Service sees this as an attempt to seize the funds of the state budget. When asked what was the point of Julia Timoshenko, who was then a national deputy of Ukraine and had no relation to EES, the investigation proudly replied that Timothyshenko’s crime seemed to give some verbal direction to the accountant. At the same time, both Timoshenko and the accountant deny it. The second point of the charge is exactly the same as the first. The only difference is that this time, after numerous checks by tax authorities, the National Bank, the Customs Service, and the Mine Economics of VAT, the company was compensated for for two years. This episode of the Security Service is qualified as the cost-sharing of the state budget. And the national MP, Timoshenko, seemed to be giving some oral instructions to someone again. The question is: If now 14 years later the VAT was found to have been unlawfully compensated, why is it that Michael Azarov was not attracted to the accomplice because he was in charge of the tax and personally controlled the VAT return? And this is not the most ridiculous accusation that is being made in this case in support of Julia Timoshenko’s guilt. Now all this inconvenient mess is being gathered to initiate a new criminal trial, to start talking about a new, sort of fair court decision that needs to be made. But all the cases of these premeditated accusations have already been closed by General Prosecutor Svetoslav Piscoon, who was and remains a member of the Party of the Regions. And the legality of this closure was confirmed by the two Chambers of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on November 11, 2005. What is it? Why is it that in our country, instead of the rule of law, the right of the one who has the upper hand is exercised? The latest activities of the escalation of political persecution, Janukovic, have clearly confirmed that he has no intention of implementing either the resolution of PARJA or the European Court of Human Rights ruling on the immediate treatment of Tymoshenko outside the penitentiary system. The abolition of the independence of the judiciary, the invasion of citizens' rights and freedoms, the brutal disregard by the President of fundamental European values completely overshadows the Ukrainians' strategic aspirations for integration into the European Union, threatens the normal lives of everyone in Ukraine. In this regard, the National Deputies of the BUT - Fatherland faction submitted today to the Attorney General Pschenka an application to close the case in connection with the apparent absence of crime in Timoshenko’s actions. There was also an application for a criminal offence against Mikola Grabik’s investigation team, who is now committing a crime by attempting to bring a criminal responsibility to a well - knownly innocent person. We demand that Yanukovic, Pshonka, head of the Security Service of Ukraine Kalinin stop immediately the political repression. Close all false criminal cases. Release political prisoners: Julius Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, Valery Yvashchenka, and others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u200	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Moses. Get ready for Kovalevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u201	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Colleagues of the People's Deputies, March 23, 2010, two years ago was attempted by a journalist, the editor-in-chief of the "Colomian Publisher" Vasil Demianiv. The motive for the attack and the attack on a journalist is his journalistic activity and public activity. Unfortunately, in our country, beating journalists, bullying them, is almost the norm. Including the latest case of Mayor Opuchov, who happened to journalist Irina Herashchenko, with a colleague of ours. Speaking in 2010 from this rostrum to protect journalist Demyaniv, I warned the lawkeeper not to try to write down an attack on a journalist’s life on a common domestic conflict. Sadly, they did not listen, and on April 19, 2011, the Court of Colomis sentenced two innocent persons, as if they had attempted a journalist’s life. It's absurd. Journalists caused a skull fracture to the head. The court wrote in the words of the guilty people that it was a blow to the head, while the professor who operated the journalist, of course, confirmed that it was either a blow or a pipe or something. The court made a mistake. The Court of Appeal overturned the judgment of the District Court of Colomia and referred the case to the Court of Colomia for further consideration. It is not as much a matter of cancelling the court’s decision as it is of concealing the true organizers and performers of the attack on a journalist’s life. And they're in Colomia, obviously, and the Colomia public knows about it. The injured journalist Demyan is also aware of this. He has a recording of a conversation with a high-ranking collomian who doesn't live in Cologne but works in Kiev. So today, I would like to call upon the court, from the rostrum, once again in the defense of journalist Demianiv and all Ukrainian journalists, to bring her back for further investigation, as the journalist asks, and the prosecutor to look into the situation and to set up real buyers and performers of this shameful act. I repeat to the journalist and all the journalists that I personally am on behalf of the Party "For Ukraine!" I'm going to keep this process under control, which almost led to the death of a journalist known in Prikarpatha. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u202	Thank you. Julia Kovalevska. Next up, Gusuk, I can't see. It's a knock-off.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u203	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected TV and radio audiences! I cannot help but overlook the two events that took place last week, which will certainly be of vital importance to our nation’s health. There is no doubt that the use of tobacco is dangerous to the life and health of every citizen of Ukraine as well as to the health of the nation as a whole. So, first of all, I'm referring to the adoption of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve certain provisions on the restriction of smoking places. And secondly, the signing on March 13 by the President of Ukraine of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Prohibition of Advertising, Sponsorship and Promotion of the Sale of Tobacco Products. In addition to the fact that these events are illustrative examples of effective cooperation between Parliament, the President and the public, these are two huge steps in the implementation of anti-smoking policies in the state, the formation of a new health culture. The fight against tobacco is one of the priorities of government policy in Ukraine, especially given that 2012 was declared a year of sport and a healthy lifestyle in Ukraine. The introduction of an anti - tobacco package proposed by the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control has already led to a decrease in the prevalence of tobacco in Ukraine. Thus, thanks to the increase in excise duties, the stricter requirements for trade, the ban on advertising, the restrictions on smoking in public places, Ukraine left a group of country leaders behind with tobacco prevalence, moving from fourth place in the world to twenty-fourth place. However, tobacco continues to kill Ukrainian citizens. Every year in our country, about 110,000 people die from tobacco-induced diseases, first of all, those are cancer and cardiovascular diseases. This poses an extremely dangerous phenomenon, such as secondhand smoking, which is most affected by children and citizens who care about their own health and who do not smoke. Second smoke is extremely harmful, and it dies, according to research, up to 10 percent of all smoke victims. I am sure that the only effective way to combat passive tobacco smoking is through a total ban on smoking in public places, such as educational and educational institutions, residential access, underground crossings, public transport, indoor public food facilities, cultures, playgrounds, sports grounds, stadiums, etc. Perhaps it was out of concern for the younger generation that this initiative was born. And banning cigarette commercials and the smoking process itself is the way to a new culture of healthy lifestyles, it's our joint work and a common victory. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Supreme Council has created an interfractional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u204	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u205	An interfractional MP group called "For Ukraine's Future Without Smoking", of which I am a member. This is, in my opinion, an extremely important step towards freeing Ukraine from tobacco. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u206	Thank you. Yuri Prokopchuk, please. I can't see the taran. Prepare Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u207	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw the attention of the whole society to the crime situation in Ukraine. Only according to an information report from law enforcement agencies, such as the Attorney General's Office, the crime situation in Ukraine in 2011 has increased by 9 per cent: the number of robberies in Ukraine has increased by 277,000, 598 cases of robberies, by 8, the number of reported robberies has increased significantly in cities such as Sevastopol, 72 per cent, in Kharkiv, 28 per cent, in Odessa and Kiev, 13 and in virtually all areas of Central and Eastern Ukraine. This suggests that today people who have nothing to live for go out and commit crimes. An unprecedented case is that the number of deliberate killings has increased by 7 percent, accounting for 2,000,506 cases, virtually a small or large village, or a small town is dying. In addition, all were touched by the latest unprecedented incidents of major rapes, the children of major representatives of the Party of Regions, in Simferopol, in Mikolayev, in Umani. We know how majors today beat people on the road. The number of accidents where people are completely released and then under the pressure of society have to return to the cells, has actually increased and corresponds to zero retention. Who's next in this game today? What city today to look forward to? What can be said about the legal state when Justice Minister Lavrinovich, who today gave false information about the condition and condition of Yulia Timoshenko’s treatment, drives stolen cars himself? What can be said is that, instead of fighting crime, the authorities are fighting the opposition today, the people who are conducting the recent peaceful protests, and we've all been watching the Mayan Independence. And one more moment that I want to raise. Illegitimately convicted was Maxim Dmitrenko. Were those judges who condemned him responsible, those investigating the case, those witnesses who gave the witness, and those prosecutors who supported the charges? Obviously not. And today, the Koreans, the wolves know that they will be just as unpunished for fabricating criminal cases against Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko, who are in prison illegally. So I demand immediate criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u208	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u209	immediately bring to justice all those who have unlawfully committed crimes against Maxime Dmitrek and who. And for whom he spent eight years illegally. And Kiriev and Wolf will be responsible later. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u210	Thank you. Baranov-Mohort. Strange. I can't see. Next Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u211	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! My previous statement from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 23 December 2011, i.e. exactly three months ago, concerned the scandalous elimination of out-of-school educational establishments located in the centre of the town of Sambora Lvivsky. What do we see today in three months? The situation on this issue continues to deteriorate. Teachers who work in Sambora extracurricular schools have reduced their hours. That is, if the teacher had a salary before, which is about four groups of 15 in each, there is now only one group of teachers. As a result, teachers work in the educational sphere, but they receive regular work, not pedagogical, and this will subsequently affect their pensions. Two buildings that have been demolished by non-school institutions remain empty until today, apparently awaiting “acceptance”. Once again, I would like to emphasize and recall that there are no deputies from the provincial parties in the mountains. The city council of Sambora includes 36 deputies, most of whom represent the faction of Fatherland, Our Ukraine, Freedom, Sobor, Change Front. It is they who have deprived nearly 600 children of Sambor's right to extracurricular education, that is, they are firing activists who are protesting against the politics of members of the Horsovet, that is, they are threatening teachers, quote, "broke legs," that was about 60 years ago in our country. From this high rostrum, I appeal to the people's deputies of the opposition factions in the Supreme Council, the deputies of the Lviv District, to stop your junior Sambori colleagues against the children and teachers of the city of Sambora. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u212	Vadim Koleschenko, please. The next one's an ass. I can't see. Chewchenko, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u213	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, good afternoon, distinguished voters! I would like to say about the darkness in the Lviv District Council, which today is beginning to monitor citizens about the language they should speak and what music they should listen to. On 16 March, a programme for the development of Ukrainian language in the Lviv region for the period 2012-2014 was approved at the session of the Lviv Platform. One of the provisions of the adopted programme is the organization of monitoring of language law even when broadcasting musical compositions in public transport. Another categorical requirement would be the disqualification of licenses from those business entities that did not ensure that their personnel of the establishments were exclusively associated in Ukrainian, the same poor participation awaited entrepreneurs if the hanging on the front of their own pharmacy or shopfront, hairdresser, coffee would be foreign and non-Ukrainian music would sound in the room itself. While we are aware of the importance of the development of the State language, we do not accept the methods used by the Lviv deputies to achieve the objectives stated in the programme, but consider the decision to be another dirty provocation aimed at destabilizing the situation in society to fuel the inter-national, interregional differences. This decision is contrary to the Constitution, which has enshrined the principle of linguistic equality, the free and unhindered development of regional languages. The decision taken by the deputies is not only contrary to existing legislation and democratic principles, but goes beyond basic human ethics and morality. This is an unceremonious intervention in the sphere of interpersonal relations. No one gave the Lviv deputies the right to decide and instruct the inhabitants of Lvivščina, what songs they heard, what books they read. During the past two years, Lvivsky has been exposed to such provocations on more than one occasion, and some of his most ominous representatives have repeatedly enjoyed discriminatory comments and offensive expressions that in time shocked the European community. Especially when defenseless children become targets for public insults and accusations in the fight for the purity of the language. History is aware of tragic cases and of the fact that crimes against humanity have been committed in the form of patriotic slogans to strengthen the national spirit. In the vicious flashes of torches, books of unfavorable authors were burned under the protection of the national language and the cleansing of the national language, and everything that seemed to be inconsistent with national signs was destroyed. It is surprising that this programme has been unanimously supported by members of the Vitalia Klitschko and the Change Front, who are not tired of repeating the so-called democratic values. We call for a focus on solving the problems of the Lviv region, because wherever our fellow citizens live, whatever religion they belong to, they are all Ukrainian citizens and have equal constitutional rights. Our task is to prevent confrontation and to create our independent democratic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u214	Thank you. Yes, the Hanuchtak Yuri is passing on to Kowalah. Please, Viacheslav Koval. Behind him are Spinov, Kaplienko, Kuzmenko, Kirilenko, Jojik, Odarchenko, Lukashuk, Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u215	The National Movement of Ukraine. Dear fellow citizens! March 25 is the 13th anniversary of the tragic death of Hero of Ukraine, Viacheslav Cnerovila. Viacheslav Crnowil was a man of "great letter", a high moral politician, a brilliant speaker, a publicist, an active public figure, one of the leaders of the dissident movement in Ukraine, he devoted his whole life to Ukraine. Thanks to his historical figure, the history of our nation back in the early 1990s brought a sharp return to the path of democratic transformation. Since the late 1950s, he has become a recognized student leader at the Faculty of Journalism of the University of Kiev, Taras Shevchenk. In the 1960s, his acute publicist work with unfortunate criticism of the existing political regime had a major impact on the development of the right-wing movement in Ukraine. Later, he organizes acts of opposition, hunger, fights for the status of a political prisoner, organizes a system of communication between political prisoners, and so forth. During the 1972-1980 years, he continued to write, despite imprisonment and being in camps, exiles, because his literary-published portrait is inseparable from politics. In 1996, Cranovil was awarded the Taras Shevchenka State Prize, and Viacheslav Crnovil was one of the most influential politicians in our country, the most authoritative man among Ukrainian democratic politicians, despite 15 years of imprisonment, he was able to maintain his unique integrity in both politics and life. To be honest, we all lack this sincerity today, so we can be sure that Ukraine lost a leader who was able to unite and lead people. And finally. The investigation into the death of Chernobyl has not been completed to this day. To the great shame of past power and the present, oligarchic-totalitarian, criminal case based on the fact that a leader's death is being closed down, is being reinstated. In any case, the re-establishment of the investigation may have a significant impact on the political life of Ukraine. I will conclude my statement with the words of Vjacheslav Maximovich: "We will not speak high words about the idea, responsibility, etc. You decided that yes, and not otherwise you should act, you decided your way, go and don't turn." The memory of Viacheslav Maximovich Crnowol will remain in our hearts forever. Glory to Ukraine! On behalf of the People's Movement of Ukraine, I would like to thank the people's deputies of Ukraine for adopting our draft Decision on 75th anniversary of the birth of Viacheslav Crnovola on a national level. Thank you very, very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u216	Eugene Kzarykov. The next one is Good Guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u217	Respectable colleagues, respected TV broadcasters, have been protesting against the neo-Nazi technology threat, the Verwolf Museum Project, for the second year of the anti-Fascist Committee of the Union of Officers. Shabash's irresponsibility has come to an end, and the tradition of handing him over to the third master has probably already passed on to the system, and has been passed on again to the fourth economic operator. Local residents are the only ones who care and care for international graves and monuments destroyed by prisoners of war. When this land became a greedy piece of land, it was taken away. Now Vervolf has three masters and he's added a new one to them. At the entrance, there was only one inscription, Holt and the barbed wire, and the height of the fences, thus making it unclear what this complex is. [[restored]] Modern science has given us a very important historical event and action, compared to the action that took place in Poland. The fact is that the neighbouring Poland has been reaping millions of profits for 50 years, and the patriotic upbringing has been reviving its young. The same bets "Wolf." Because there was an attempt on Hitler. If you remember, there was a bomb that didn't break out of the table, so our scientists and historians confirmed that we had the same case, in our country, only associated with radiation. From this rostrum, Petar Nikolaevich Simonenko has already criticized the irresponsibility of the project, which is what they want to turn Vervolf into today. Moreover, the President himself has already publicly stated to the people that it is only through discussion with the public that the historical perception of this complex must be reconstructed, but so far no reaction. The patriotic education of guilt began with the sale of books about Hitler in the future museum, the passing schedule of his work in Vervolf, which shows what kind of worker he was, there is a lot of details about the Fuhrer, from his paintings and books to poetry, there are orders for what remuneration and exactly how to hand over guerrillas. It is not clear what the guilty authorities today have become this complex and what values they are promoting. I address President Fedorovich Yanukovic on behalf of the entire faction of communists, on behalf of all veterans and those who value the feat of our grandfathers, those who categorically oppose the resurgence of neo-fascism in our country: to address this situation, to prevent the Vinni district leadership project of the museum as it is. I also ask the Attorney-General and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to give these actions a qualified assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u218	Thank you. Eugene Good. Next up is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u219	Good guy, "The Yulia Timoshenko Block is "The Fatherland." As of today, it's a new, 13th packet of sanctions for Syria. It was approved the day before by ministers of foreign affairs of the European Union. Another 12 people were banned from EU imports, including the wife of Syrian President Asmi Assad. Last week the paparazzi saw her in London, where the first lady of Syria made expensive purchases. This indignant the European press. Meanwhile, Radbez supported the crisis management plan proposed by Kofi Annan. The plan consists of six points and envisions a ceasefire, a dialogue between power and opposition, access to a country of humanitarian organizations. However, fighting continues in Syria. In the last century, Syrian activists reported that at least 26 people were killed in the country. However, the Ukrainian Communists ’ policies, which require the President and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to support Syrian chief Bashar Assad, must be indignant. MPs from the KPU who visited this country say that the information about the conflict between government and insurgents in the world’s media is distorted. We Ukrainians are against terror in any way and at any point in the globe. We are against dictators and dictatorships, which would be beautiful and golden, they would not have promised, and the Constitution of Ukraine has declared it. Opposition representatives in Ukraine say that today’s visit by the Communist delegation from Ukraine to Syria demonstrates their support for the regime in this and other countries of the Middle East and North Africa. The company has always focused its attention on noninterference with other nations. Today's trip is an attempt to see how the situation develops. The Communists once again claim that the trip is an attempt to see how the situation develops. Meanwhile, on the weekend of Damascus, the United Nations envoy of the League of Arab States on Syria, former UN Secretary - General Kofi Annan, arrives. He will spearhead attempts by international mediation in a conflict that killed more than 8,000 people in the last year alone. Western nations are also discussing the possibility of armed interference in the Syrian civil war. French President Nicholas Sarkazi supported military intervention in Syria under the approval of the UN Security Council. Sarkazi believes that the veto of Russia and China should be removed from the UN Security Council, while UN Secretary-General Pan Guy Moon accused the leader of Syria of war crimes and the killings of his own civilian population. Ukraine has to express its support for the European Union's action towards a measure of resolution of the crisis in Syria, and 15,000 lives is a valid argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u220	Yes, Yuri Carmazin. And the next one is Hanustak, and then the Oilman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u221	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies, distinguished compatriots, to address you from this rostrum is a threat to the destruction of the state-owned Radio Broadcasting Centre, which is of strategic importance to Ukraine. I received a call from a working group of this company, located in the Kyiv District of Bloraware, requesting urgent assistance. There is concern about the actual destruction of the company, which is one of the most powerful radio stations in Ukraine. I think it's not the destruction of the enterprise, it's the destruction of Ukraine. Over the decades, the company has distributed the first and twenty-fourth National Radio programme on long and medium waves, the Global Radio Ukraine programme, on short waves, and radio connections with the Pacific and Indian Ocean fishing fleet. Now they think you don't have to do anything about it. In view of the lack of state - of - the - art procurement, none of the five available radio transmitters are available today. Over 50 workers were unemployed and their families were out of livelihoods because of the company’s closure. At a time when most neighbouring countries are speaking in long and medium-sized waves with powerful transmitters from 150 to 2.5 thousand kilowatts, in Ukraine, on the other hand, the National Radio Company, in 2011, refused to speak to long-range transmitters of 500 kilowatts, which provided coverage for the First National Radio Programme for more than 90 percent of the territory of Ukraine and partly neighbouring countries: Russia, Belarus, Moldova, and entered the list of technology involved in the population announcement system in case of emergencies. According to a decision of the National Radio Company of Ukraine, since February 1, 2012, the company has stopped working for the last medium-wave transmitter with a power of 200 kilowatts, which is active in the execution of the government order, a broadcast of the beam program. Thus, a sentence was actually handed down to an enterprise for which a government order was the only source of income. In addition, the suspension of these transmitters deprived a large part of the population of Ukraine of the ability to listen to the Ukrainian radio. In fact, there is no conductive language in rural areas today. As a result, only about 8 million dollars per year is needed to restore the work of a 500 - kilowatt transmitter that will cover the National Radio programme over 90 percent of the territory of Ukraine when it is loaded 18 hours per day. Please consider not only 80 million dollars for the construction of one helicopter site but only 8 million dollars for the construction of one helicopter. That is why I consider it necessary to turn from this high rostrum and please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Ukrainian government, to the Security and Defence Council, to the President of Ukraine. We have to save him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u222	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u223	We need to save the National Radio from private speakers, only it brings the Ukrainian song, the Ukrainian language, and the Ukrainian spirit to the audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u224	And Karmazin's voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u225	And Karmazin's voice, and Martinyuk's, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u226	Thank you. Please, you're a pain in the ass. There's an oil man behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u227	Honourable voters, February 14th in Kiev, attended an Expert Forum on Land Reform. A number of well - known experts and about 100 participants from various regions took part in his work. Unlike the cheap appetites for happiness that will come after the sale of land, the discussion here focused on various aspects: economic, demographic, social, cultural, environmental, historical. What was marked? First. There is no systematic state policy on rural areas and agricultural production in Ukraine. The other one. The demographic situation in the countryside is deteriorating at a fast pace. The main reasons for such a situation are the absence of work. Third. The decline in agricultural jobs is linked to the rapid concentration of land resources in the hands of large holdings that have transferred agricultural production exclusively to the cultivation and export of grains. The seven largest agroholdings in Ukraine process over one and a half million acres [1.5 million ha] of land, more than land in agricultural areas such as Hmelnicka, Cherkasca, Winnicka. Such permeability in agricultural production for the benefit of crops inevitably leads to soil depletion. Thus, in 1990, 257 million tons of organics were added to the fields, and in 2009 only 10 million were added to the fields. Four. The efficiency of high - value production is a myth. The countries where the main producers of agricultural products are small farmers have the highest yield of one hectare, five to ten times higher than in Ukraine. Fifth. In the historical aspect of the greatest increase in rural development, it was observed when the owner of the land was directly processing it. Six. The land reform that is being discussed in Ukraine does not really look reformed because there is no complete vision of reform: purpose, resources, actions, indicators of success. The main thing is that there is no man in reform. Why is it necessary to sell land? What's the result of this in 5, 10, 50 years? Will the village remain in the Ukrainian dimension as a constant resource for the restoration of the Ukrainian nation as a stable donor of human strength to the city? Forum recommendations. The state must create conditions when agricultural production, family business, and not holding down is beneficial. The upper limit of agricultural land for one producer should be not more than 1,000 - 1,500 hectares. The other one. To determine that all producers who process more than 200 hectares of land should be on a normal system of taxation, and government subsidies should be given exclusively to small and medium-sized producers. Third. Indicators for monitoring the state of development of areas. The main indicators for agriculture are the added value of 1 hectare of slag. Four. Data on the Earth cadastre are placed on the Internet in order for the public to see the real state of land use and farming. Land reform is not possible without the separation of local self - government functions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u228	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u229	and executive power to ensure effective control over the effective use of the land, because only powerful local self-government will save Ukraine from the advent of authoritarianism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u230	Yes, please, Oliver Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u231	Olinik Victor, Faction of the Fatherland, Volin. The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, has been in Ukraine for two years and every Ukrainian feels "improvement of life today". During this time, reforms from power were felt by pensioners, entrepreneurs, doctors, teachers, Chernobyl, and Afghans. It's the turn of the miners. Today we are witnessing actually the beginning of coal reforms. It can be viewed as the beginning of Cabinet of Ministers No.71 of 11 January 2012 for the approval of a list of objects of the fuel-energy complex of state property rights that may be awarded in concession. With this determination, a number of mines have been added to the list of unspectrums that are to be closed. I think everyone today really understands what "covered up" is. This means that thousands of miners will be thrown into the streets, and their families will be deprived of livelihoods. Among these mines, which fell into the so-called "black" list, the mines from Donetskina, Lvivščina, as well as the Volin mines, such as two Vollin mines: Mine No1 of Novovolinska and Mine No9 of Novovolinska. I'd like to say that there's still enough coal in these mines, and if they're modernized, they can work for less than a year and produce coal. It takes money to resupply them. The sum today is about 40 million dollars. And I'm convinced that these funds need to be found today. The government today says that there are additional funds in the budget, that changes will be made to the state budget, and I think that the government is obliged to find 40 million to give people the opportunity to work. Because it's much better to give up this money today than to throw thousands of miners out on the street. Because miners are determined to defend their rights. And that is far more than one reason for their determination. One of today’s problems with Volinian miners is the problem of wages. Today, the debt of wages has reached over 6.5 million dollars. There's a lot of problems with payout for a ferocious wage. The only mine in Ukraine that is being built is Mine 10 of Novovolinska. There, too, for several months now, miners have not received a salary. And this is a huge problem that leads to increased social tension in the region. And one more thing I would like to say is what applies today to many coal companies, including the Volin Mine. Today, tens of thousands of tons of coal have been concentrated on coal deposits. Until recently, the discharge had actually stopped. And just a few days ago, Burstine T.E.S. began to take Volin coal. The reason for this is that as a result of the privatization of Dobroverska and Burstinska TEZ, who had previously been consumers of Volin Coal, simply stopped his brothers. And this is due to imperfect actions of power, imperfect privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u232	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u233	What about Volin miners today? Why did the authorities abandon them? Volin miners are still awaiting answers from authorities to these and many other questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-23-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the performances are over. I ask the secretariat to prepare those addresses and questions that have been prepared for referral. I remind you that according to the calendar plan for the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the sixth call from March 26th to March 30th, the national deputies work in the constituencies with the electors. April 2-6 is work on committees, commissions, factions and groups. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, April 10, at 10 a.m. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
