ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests, invited to the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the glade system, we're registering. [[10:00:50]] There are 334 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, today Vasil Ivanovich Evtuhov celebrates his next anniversary. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] I provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on October 2nd this year. You and I discussed 58 issues of the agenda last Tuesday. As a result of their consideration, 37 laws and 69 regulations were passed, 12 bills were adopted on a basis, 6 bills and one draft decree were rejected. 73 parliamentary requests were made. Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and statements. The factions and groups would like to sign up for the performance. Please point it on the board. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Kamchatno. Kinah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! Ukraine has a large number of complex political, socio-economic and humanitarian tasks, challenges that prevent us from spending time on empty quarrels and destructive opposition. The world around us is moving forward, the competition is growing. That's why Parliament's elections need an honest competition of modern science-based, responsible and appropriate national interest strategies, close and understandable people's development agendas. In Ukraine, the issues and challenges of further developing domestic production, supporting the national producer and on this basis increasing social standards, and improving social policy are very relevant. This is a proven state position that finds great support for Ukrainian society. This is what the President of the country, Viktor Janukovic, has repeatedly talked about in social initiatives, the targeted national programme for the development of domestic production -- to increase the volume of products produced in Ukrainian territory; to improve the trade and payment balance of Ukraine; and to create jobs on Ukrainian land. This is the responsibility and task of our political power, which is and will be a strategic program that will be carried out. Dear National Deputies! It is unacceptable to make hostages of internal personal political competition the future of our nation, to destroy a favourable investment climate, authority, and trust in Ukraine and the world. The attempts of various catastrophic projections, the formation of mistrust in the financial and economic system, the dirt and the black pear have to be firmly reflected in society. Dear National Deputies! People, the country needs strong consolidated power, which, on the basis of a constant dialogue under the control and supervision of society, provides socio-economic development worthy of human life, confidence in tomorrow. A positive legacy, a systematic highly professional responsible job, political stability, responsible interaction of branches of government, all of this is clearly in line with the interests of society, strengthening Ukraine's irreversible development as a modern competitive state. Given the growth of global competition, Ukraine's irreversible integration into both economic and political space, we need to build equal, transparent external political economic relations across the perimeter of Ukrainian borders. We must be present where there are Ukrainian political and economic interests and work with the countries of the world on equal, mutually beneficial conditions, avoiding interference in our internal affairs. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine are a common chance to create an even more quality, modern, responsible system of power. The Ukrainians are a reasonable and wise people who know how to think and appreciate. The party is convinced that the Ukrainian people will choose for stability, social cohesion, development and confidence in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u3	The Stoneman is handing over the Chapel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! This year's parliamentary elections are of particular importance to Ukraine in terms of socio-economic stability in the state, affirming the value of democracy and the prospects for Ukraine's European integration. In this context, the MP's "For the Future Reform Group" stresses the urgent need to achieve at least the leading political forces involved in the electoral process of some consensus. First of all, with regard to the unconditional enforcement of existing legislation, including electoral legislation. And secondly, about the objective and balanced scores of these elections. Each subject of the electoral process needs to be aware that the level of democratic elections that take place in 2012 and their assessment by international observers depend directly on whether or not the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community will become effective. On the other hand, in Ukraine today and beyond, there are trends that point to the open desire of some political forces to form a preconceived approach to the process of preparing and conducting electoral races. In particular, it is a matter of exerting an unhealthy campaign around parliamentary elections by some political forces and formations, which are trying, in our view, to put the cross on the legitimacy of the elections that are taking place. Such a destructive attitude is the result of an appropriate response from the European community. As a result, some authorized representatives of the Europeans. The European Union is already being challenged by the democraticity of the parliamentary elections in Ukraine and is even making statements about the need for a new democratic revolution. We would like to remind you that we will not survive the second revolution. Ukraine needs to be reformed today, not destroyed. In view of the above, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction points to the inadmissibility of similar assessments of elections and conclusions, which are limited to interference with the internal affairs of our state. The Ukrainian people today need not new revolutions, but sure progress, step by step through democracy and European integration. We are willing to follow friendly counsel, but we will never accept mentoring and instruction from the west or the east. Given that these elections will become lakh papers of devotion to Ukraine and the values of freedom and democracy, the MP's faction of Reforms for the Future calls for all subjects of the electoral process to put national interests ahead of the party's narrowest interests, making every effort to ensure their compliance with European democratic standards. As for the President. We appeal to the President-in-Office of Ukraine as a guarantor of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, asking them to ensure that electoral legislation is enforced, by entrusting the relevant authorities of the State with a more stringent and prompt response to any fact of the offences during the elections. And about the electorate. The parliamentary faction of Reforms for the Future urges you, honourable voters, not to be indifferent to your future and the fate of the state. Come to the election in person, vote for yourself, and vote for the mind, not the emotion that is sought by any political team or other political technologists. Remember, your participation in the elections is a major guarantee not only of democracy and prejudice over all possible frauds but also of the pro-active choice of our nation's further development, as Ukraine is called. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u5	Andrew Shevchenko. Get ready. Arsenius Yatsenuk, please. Prepare the Pigeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u6	Dear people of Ukraine, the deputy of the former Supreme Council of Ukraine! Because this is today the last parliamentary session before the October 28, 2012. The activities of this Supreme Council of Ukraine can be divided into two stages. The first is when a democratic majority was and worked in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a period without Yanukovich. And the second period is when the Party of Regions received the majority in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the so-called period with Yanukovic. We know that after the elections that will take place on October 28, the period with Yanukovic will end. But to know the future, we need to talk about what happened in Parliament in the past. At the time that the Supreme Council of Ukraine had a democratic majority, the democratic majority had decided that Ukraine had become a member of the World Trade Organization, that Ukraine had become a market economy country, that Ukraine had ratified the Agreement with the member countries of the European Union on visa facilitation for millions of Ukrainians, that the democratic majority had decided to recalculate pensions and increase social costs through the National Budget of Ukraine. The democratic majority decided that Ukraine should become an exclusive part of the European Union. The democratic majority introduced a procedure whereby Ukrainian national deputies were paid, not from whether the card was registered or not, but from whether it came to work or not. The democratic majority has mounted a personal voting system. The democratic majority did, the democratic majority tried to change the lives of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Many things worked, many things failed, but we believed, and we knew and worked. We changed Ukraine for the better every day. Then, after the presidential election, such an institution as the Supreme Council of Ukraine disappeared altogether. Today, this is the Department of President Yanukovic's Administration. The majority of Janukovič began their phase and move because the first decision gave part of the Ukrainian territory to a foreign military base in Crimea. Such gifts were made by the Party of Regions and by President Yanukovic for the benefit of other nations. The second decision was that this majority of President Yanukovic had deprived Ukraine of its own security policy and amended the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Act. The third decision was that this Supreme Council of Ukraine did not produce "tushes" but instead developed "dead souls" who traded cards, who traded themselves and who sold Ukraine and sold themselves. This Supreme Council of Ukraine during the Janukovich Presidency has become a market, a market where millions of dollars go, and in which Ukrainians are traded by the voices of those who seem to today to be members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This Parliament, for the most part, wanted to destroy the Ukrainian language. And because of this disgraceful vote, which was in the walls of the Supreme Council, it has been shown to everyone that neither the President nor the Party of Regions, who do not love Ukraine, will not be able to see everything that pertains to Ukraine and Ukraine. This Parliament has decided for the majority of Yanukovic to spend 4 million dollars on the President and on the entire Office of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u7	No record, but please write again. Four more minutes from the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u8	This Parliament has decided to keep President Yanukovic and his 4 million-dollar environment for one dune. This Parliament has adopted tax and pension reform for the majority of Yanuković, increasing the retirement age by 5 years for 15 million Ukrainian women, and by adopting the Tax Code by destroying 300,000 entrepreneurs. This Parliament passed the State Budget Act and Janukovic signed it, according to which Ukraine achieved a record deficit of the State Budget, which increased three times compared to last year. This majority of Yanukovich has made a decision that Ukraine owes its external creditors twice as much as when Azarov and Yanukovich are mentioned as having so - called patrons. This Parliament and the majority of Yanukovich have done their utmost to make Ukraine a part of their property, not for Ukraine to own 45 million Ukrainians. But the time has come to lay the stones. And I am happy to say that most of the people who sold Ukraine, who traded the votes of Ukrainians who traded the cards that destroyed the state, will not be in the next Supreme Council. A democratic majority will be formed in the next Parliament. And we're now claiming, and we're addressing primarily those parties that are counting themselves down to the future majority. We have an agreement to sign the future majority between the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland and eight other parties, and the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom. We're going to get a new majority, according to which first decision of the new Supreme Council, this chair of president is not going to be over the people. This chair of the president will be below the people. And for that, the law on the order of the President's impeachment will be passed. We want to begin the impeachment procedure of current President Yanukovic, two and a half years is enough. We're going to adopt a law calling off the Ukrainian national deputy. We will pass the law on voting exclusively for ourselves and on criminal responsibility for voting with other people's cards. We will break the disgraceful language law. We will abolish the pension tax reform and adopt the code of economic growth and our tax reform. We will continue the moratorium on land and will not allow you, regionally, to continue trading Ukraine and Ukrainian land. And make billions of dollars in poor people living in rural areas who deserve and have the right to a better future. We have a clear plan for change, which provides for 80 bills. These laws will be passed by a new democratic majority. The agreement to create such a democratic majority has now been reached at the "Paternity" and "Freedom". We're going to strike, to give a clear answer, are they ready to defend Ukraine and form a democratic majority in the new parliament? We need to unite before the elections, not after. Or after the election, there will be a situation infected by today’s Supreme Council of Ukraine: they will trade cards like credit cards again. We are convinced of the victory of the democratic forces. A party of regions will go into opposition, and there will be pro-European democratic forces in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u9	Alexander Dove, a faction of Communists, has the word. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u10	Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! Regrettably, it must be noted that the closer the voting day, the more severe the opposition, the harsher the violations allowed, the more cynical the technology used to discredit political opponents. The dynamic growth of the Communist Party's support ratings by nationals, which is recorded by virtually all sociological services and polytologists of various political beliefs, has led to increased electoral base of the party being provoked by growing irritation and opposition, both by nationalist forces and in the authorities. Which, frankly, violates their plans to restore the ultimate total dictatorship of the oligarchs. With a view to discrediting the IPU, power now resorts to the most dirty methods, affecting huge resources for the anti-communist company. Millions of copies in the eastern and south-eastern areas of the country are produced, printed, and distributed. The open intervention of local officials is widely used to disrupt meetings with voters, especially in labour and student groups. Representatives of the salt structures are involved in the intimidation and pressure of SLM activists. It is a matter of genuine threats to the lives and health of Communist candidates and their families. Judicial and administrative bans on campaigning and pre-election advertising are widely organized. Even the untapped observer has no doubt that the texts of angry anti-communist matches, which are heavily involved in hatred and injury, proclaimed from the television screens by representatives of the parties of power or which, during street action from the national fascist megaphones, as well as from time to time, sound from the parliamentary rostrums from the mouth of the "exorcism carcasses", are written by the same people. The secret of Polišinel is also the address of the Centre for the Production and Dissemination of Black Piar Technology. This is Kiev, Leipzig Street, 10. However, the Communist Party of Ukraine expresses its sincere gratitude to those journalists, radio and television channels who, despite pressure and direct indication from above, have shown responsibility and civil courage, have refused to broadcast false films and advertisements made by unclean politicians. Attempts to bribe and severely pressure representatives of IHRs in electoral commissions at all levels are of particular concern. We know that methodological recommendations have been developed and that a mechanism has been put in place to implement the withdrawal of the maximum, maximum, maximum. The members of our party. The involvement of law enforcement officials in all these processes leads to the conclusion that the police will, at a crucial moment, protect forging forgeries rather than honest citizens. We are confident that society is in a position together to halt the ongoing divide and prevent the falsification of the results of the elections. We state that we will stand firm and, in principle, by all available means and means for every vote cast for the party, the result for each constituency wherever it is. Today, it is up to all parties to the political process to see whether Ukraine can pass an examination for civil, political maturity, conduct open, transparent and fair elections, and thus gain legitimate authority, and whether citizens of Ukraine have the opportunity to finally end the inhumane experiments of the past 20 years and make a choice in favour of a society where the concept of “worker” will be written in capital and will again sound proud. A society where children and old people do not need, a society where a working person will be confident of tomorrow’s family day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u11	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, I will talk about what hurts people, not politicians. Today there is a food day in the world. In this way, the international community tries to draw attention to the threat of a food disaster. Ukraine, with its natural resources, can not only escape this but also enter the world market for its agricultural products. But only with the wise and rational use of the natural resources of our lands, especially those polluted by the crash at CHAES. Therefore, I am convinced that the bill I drafted on the legal regime of the territories affected by radioactive pollution will allow for rational and useful use of these lands for people. Today, 26 years after the accident at CAES, we have not yet been able to cope with its terrible consequences. None of my meetings with people who live in radioactively polluted areas go by without the issue of social protection for the Chernobylites. People worry that they may even be deprived of the meager benefits they have today. I am deeply convinced that there can be no such thing. Because Chernobyl's radiation remains in the human body. On the contrary, we need to make real money to help citizens through restrictions on local food consumption. Now with less than two dollars, we're just exasperating people. It's hard to talk about it, but with each year it's getting smaller and smaller. And those who remain need constant treatment. There's an increase in the number of patients with kidney disease who need expensive medical treatment. This year’s budget for medical care provides 44 bracelets, a meager sum even for a doctor’s visit. And these people have to turn to each other all the time. The price of drugs is steadily rising. Money from the drug budget simply does not catch up with drug bills. Today, I ask you, Mikolo Janovich, that your commission to deal with the cost of the drugs is done. Children who live in polluted areas or who are born from the parents of the victims need special attention. After reaching adulthood, a large number of them have lost their right to gain the status of the victim. I am convinced that this is unfair because these children have already been exposed to radiation and need constant control of their health. I have brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and I propose that the fifth category of victims be set up for those who suffered from an accident when they were children, and that the status of the victim was not attained after reaching adulthood. Accordingly, the fifth category will also have the right to state benefits and social protection. For two years, we did not have enough money to provide housing for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster when nearly 38,000 families were in line for housing. The cost of this item is enough to solve the housing problem for only 560 families. Today I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine with a request for a mandate to speed up the development of a state-wide programme to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. It will allow greater social protection for affected citizens. In the preparation of the 2013 State Budget, it is necessary to increase the cost of free medicine for victims, carrying out cost-effective operations, feeding children living in radioactively polluted areas, and providing them with shelter. These people have already been in trouble, so now it is the duty of the state to help them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u13	Finish up. Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, all the speeches are over. At a meeting yesterday of the Conciliation Board, we decided that we would also be today, and we would get to know the MP's questions. So let me put out a request. People's MPs have been asked: Valery Ramez to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior, Attorney-General for the pollution of drinking water in the village of Jurkovka Zvenigrad County of Cherkas region. Ally Alexandrovsky to the Prime Minister for taking steps to recover the loans received from the Bank of Bass to ensure payment to citizens and legal persons – the investors of this bank. Valery Bondick to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Justice, the State Executive Service, the Attorney General's Office on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute judicial decisions. Groups of National Deputies to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality, Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine, State Archives of Ukraine, Kyiv City State Administration, Kyiv City Council, National Association of Artists of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the numerous public appeals to assist in the restoration of the historic monument to the public official, Peter Stolipin, to hold the National Universal Open Contest of the sculptors for the project of building a monument in Kiev, to create conditions for a public discussion of the project and to carry out other measures of opportunity 150 years from the date of the birth of an outstanding reformer. [[The track, Bondica, and others. Total 6 deputies]] Vladimir Lešchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to repair the road capital from the village of Ilmíuk to the region of Chernigiv to the city of Grodni. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the inclusion of the Bessarab Fair in the State Cultural Program and the socio-economic development programmes of the region and the state. Vladimir Leshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the steps taken to complete the construction of the school in the village of Masheve Semenov district of Chernigiv. Vasila Wondernova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extension of tariffs, paragraph 1.5. of the National Commission Regulation, which regulates state energy from 23 April 2012 to all the population that resides in urban areas that are given the status of natural gas and that do not or do not operate central heating systems. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister on active public policy in the implementation of the National Education Strategy in Ukraine by 2021. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister, head of the Poltava District State Administration, head of the Orgitsky District State Administration of the Poltava Region for inclusion in the social and economic development programmes and budgets of 2013 for the construction of roads with solid coverage in the village of Zarig Orzic district of Poltav. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister on the need for full implementation of the basic principles of a state-wide strategy to reform the system of social services for citizens of the country. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the inappropriate response to the Ukrainian People's Deputy on the construction and repair of works, highways during 2010-2012, as well as on the cost of the stated needs of public city budgets and other sources of funding. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister, Minister for Regional Development of Construction and Housing and the Attorney General, Head of the Poltava District Administration of the Luben City Head on the need to end the brutal violation of the Ukrainian Law on Metrology, Metrology and Metrological Activities concerning the illegal requirement of payment for periodic checks on the provision of water by the service providers of Lubna Poltava district and the return of illegal funds to the people. Stéphane Kurpil to the Prime Minister for the repair of the road of general use of Skomorocha, the Royatin of the Lviv region. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health for the Inaction of State Authorities on Oncosa, Hepatitis, AIDS, the extreme need for the establishment of the Ukrainian National Centre for Molecular and Spiritual Recovery of Human Beings and Environment, the promotion of the treatment of sick scientific developments by Anatolia Potopalski, the allocation for this purpose in the 2013 National Budget of 20 million dollars, the provision of State registration of Amisotine and Izotisone for the purpose of preventing further deterioration of the health of Ukrainian citizens, the reduction of the death rate among the population caused by particularly dangerous diseases such as hemorrhagism. Mikoli Shershun to the Cabinet of Ministers to resolve the issue of the execution of court decisions on the payment of pensions to the "blacks", "children of war", "disability" by the Pension Fund of Ukraine. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, Prosecutor-General for the Use of Urgent Measures for the Rescue of the Kuyalna Lima, which is in a state of ecological disaster by granting the status of the "national natural park", a provision in Ukraine's State Budget for 2013 for a separate line of expenditure on the financing of measures for the restoration and maintenance of the environment of the lemon totalling 30 million dollars in the construction of clean-up buildings in the village of Ivanyovka Odessa. Verifications of illegal mining of natural resources and beneficial fossils in Kuyalnicki’s territory and the inaction of officials to bring the guilty to justice. Edward Prutnik to the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and Science of Youth and Sports, the State Agency of Ukraine for Film Affairs on the need for a comprehensive consideration of the issue of promoting the participation of talented children in a film project based on Anton Makarenko's "Pedagogical Poem", the development of a complex of activities involving leading professionals and the granting of permission for filming of this project, together with children from Ukrainian institutions, to develop creative and social activities for children of socially vulnerable categories. Vassila Wonderful to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports about providing funding from the state budget for the educational and technical office of vocational education in the Ivano-Frankiv region. Eugene Chago to the Minister of Finance on the implementation of measures aimed at avoiding social tension in the state-owned military security community of 38 engineering units. Alexia Plotnikov to the Ministry of Education and Science of Youth and Sports, Kyiv City Public Administration of the Bologna District in Kiev State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the address of the parental committee and the Directorate of the specialized I-S School with an in-depth study of English No. 165 of Kiev on the de facto support of the costs of parents, students of sanitary standards and internal safety standards of the 53-year school building for the safe education of children and the urgent need for cost compensation in connection with the conduct of the electoral process in October of this year. Mikoli Shershun to the Ministry of Health for conducting a sanatorium analysis of the galvanic plant of metal products in the city of Sarna Rivena. Vladimir Danilenko to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine regarding the biased trial of judges of the Kharkiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Andriy Grigorov, Larissa Melnikov and Zoja, in the case of the violation of the rights of users of the housing and utility services of the city of Suma. Dmitra Sphenov to the Attorney General, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, on the illegal issuance of documents that confirm the force majeure conditions for the Alcev Metallurgy Society. Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney General, head of the State Property Fund for the protection of the constitutional right to housing of residents of Gagarin Street, 4 in the city of Nova Kahouka, Herson district. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney-General on the unsatisfactory consideration of the parliamentary request for non-performance of the heat-generating enterprises of Sumi, the Society with limited responsibility for Sumitplenergo and the Director of the Coal Northern Spokesman of the Sumi Engineering and Production Union of the name Frunze, a separate decision of the local self-government authorities to carry out the recalculations for central heating and hot water services. John Denkovitch to the Attorney General regarding the improper consideration of parliamentary appeals regarding the misconduct of members of the internal affairs bodies of the Republic of Lithuania in criminal proceedings. Constantine Bondarev to the Attorney General on the verification of the obstacles to the conduct of pre-election agitation and the inaction of police officers. Mikli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the facts of the illegal detention of doctor Alexander Voronyuk. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General for the purpose of testing the facts of the deliberate manufacturing of the "only energy systems" against Timoshenko by the environment of the second President of Ukraine in his office and by his participation. Jury Odarchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful violation by the Deputy Prosecutor of the Odessa Region of Dmitry of a criminal case in respect of officials of the Society with limited responsibility of the Odes Regional Expert Company under the signs of crime provided for in section 2 of article 366 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Jaroslav Kendzior to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a large-scale financial affair related to the Society's limited-liability "Cooperation of Coal Repair Technologies", the main actors of Jaroslav and Bogdan Dubnevich, Sergey Onishtenka and others suspected of billions of thefts of state budget funds. Vladimir Stretovic to the head of the Herson district administration, the procurator of the Herson district, for the use of measures to pay off employees of the municipal enterprise "Our City" the debt of wages and to establish guarantees for the protection of the right of these citizens to receive compensation for their work in a timely manner. Eugene Chago to the Suburban City Head of the Dnipropetrov region regarding the inappropriate response to the parliamentary request for information. Mikoli Rudchenka and Mikoli Shershun to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of a crime committed against a citizen of Physician Igor Vasilovich. These are the parliamentary questions we have today. Dear colleagues, you have a list of issues proposed for discussion and decision-making today. So let's move on to their consideration. We should now consider removing disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code on the acquisition of land ownership, but the committee asked for a break until the relevant documents were prepared. Let's take a look at it later. On the annulment of the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of laws. We have two draft decrees: draft Decree No. 11220-P, draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of October 2, 2012 on the adoption as the bill of the draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on Treasury Accounts. This is a bill from a colleague of Ganustak. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:41:08]] For 213 Yes, please, Shamemaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u14	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT is in Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen! In the second issue, on October 2, we adopted a bill in general that envisions what can be done to liquidate the treasury with compulsory compensation at the end of the years, that is, to maintain balance. Two words about why this decision should be overturned. In my speech, I made it clear that I insist that this bill be considered in a second reading. I mean, don't take it right away in the first and completely. Regrettably, the chairman did not listen to my opinion and put to the vote the adoption of this bill as a whole, which has been violated by the rules of the Supreme Council, i.e. we have formal signs of repealing this decision because it has been adopted illegally, contrary to the Rules Act. Moreover, I wrote a corresponding statement in the name of the presiding officer, stating his reasoning on the matter and clearly registered the term, that is, two days, for the annulment of the decision. Now essentially, I'd like to suggest to the second reading that you submit the changes that predict the regulation of these borrowings. Because we're doing it? We're opening up Pandora's box when we're borrowing to cover, in fact, cash gaps in amounts that aren't settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u16	And that's why I'm proposing to review this because there are very serious things here essentially. Let's cancel and put these things in.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u17	Please, Vladimir MacKeenko, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine’s national deputy, Hanustak Yuri Ivanovic, with reference to article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, introduced a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of October 2, 2012 on the adoption as a bill amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget on Treasury Accounts and its corresponding written statement under the name of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, Vladimir Mihajlovich, of October 4, this year. [[by number 11220 from 17.09.2012]] The author's introduction of the above-mentioned draft regulation is based on the failure to comply with the standards of part two of article 114 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure in the consideration and adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Law amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget on Treasury Accounts. [[by number 11242]] The Committee at its meeting on 15 October this year did not reach a conclusion on the appropriateness of the adoption or rejection by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 October 2012 on the adoption as a bill of the draft law amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget on Treasury Accounts. [[at 11220-p]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u19	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. Yes, please, Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u20	Vladimir Bondarenko. I give the word to Sergio Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u21	Please, Sergei Sasa's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u22	Thank you, Volodymyr Dmitrovich. Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland. Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you. The legislative clownage in the Supreme Council continues. You have a day-to-day question about the annulment of what legislative acts of which decision. So far, the documents on these issues have not been handed over to the Ukrainian National Deputies. With regard to the statement made by the chairman of the Committee on Rules, the committee did not consider the matter. And because there was a speech just before the committee heads, I don't understand. The committee did not accept any conclusions on this matter. That's the first one. But as for the question, speaking, of course, there is no point, the breach will continue. What's happening is it's very well placed into an anecdote that's now walking around Ukraine, you know? "Two scumbags in the trash are picking up bottles. One takes the bottle quietly into the bag and another bottle quietly in the bag. And here next to a colleague, his neighbor, once and for all, put a bottle in a bag. And the previous one, the first one, says to this second guy, "Honorable," he says, "colleague, can you do it a little bit quieter? Because the regionals will hear, the business will be taken away." What you're doing in the Supreme Council right now is clearly embedded in this formula. Stop the lawlessness! Stop these ridiculous things that you are doing today, just like every previous plenary meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u23	Fedun. Don't you insist? I then put to the vote the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 October 2012 on the adoption as a bill of the draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on Treasury Accounts. [[Bill 11220-p registration number]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:48:31]] For-54 The decision is not supported. We are considering a draft Decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to repeal the declaration of conformity. [[Registration number 11242-P]] Bodnar Olga Borisovna is the author of the draft decision. Please, two minutes. You don't? Then from Committee of MacKeenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u24	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bodnar Olga Borisovna, with reference to article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, introduced a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption as a whole of the draft law of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine as regards the non-registration of the declaration of conformity under number 11242-P of 03.10.12. The author's introduction of the above-mentioned draft regulation is based on the failure to comply with the rules of part two of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure on the basis and the whole of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to annul the registration of the declaration of conformity under number 11242. The national deputy of Ukraine, Bodnar, made a draft decision without complying with article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. At its meeting on 15 October this year, the Committee did not reach a conclusion on the appropriateness of the adoption or rejection by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the whole bill of the draft law of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine to repeal the declaration of conformity under number 11242-P. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u25	Please sign up. Yes, please, Toothpick. Please, Prestenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of October 2, 2012 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to abolish the registration of declarations of conformity we really need to reject. The point is that the law will create a catastrophic situation for a domestic producer as a result of unfair competition by importers and unscrupulous domestic producers. And the consumer will not be able to draw conclusions on the conformity of production with technical regulations. As a result, the rights of consumers are violated by articles 42 and 50 of the Ukrainian Constitution. As a result, it will inevitably also be harmful to life, to the health of the average citizens of Ukraine, and to the consumers of such products. Therefore, I propose to vote in favour of repealing this law. And if you can't do that, you can write it like that. Part two of Bill 11242. "This Act takes effect from the day of its publication to the countries with which the mutual recognition of the results of the conformity assessment has been concluded." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u27	Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland. Well, the situation continues. The theater of absurdity works. Adam Ivanovich, the Committee on Rules of Law did not consider. Documents are not handed over to the deputies when they consider the bill. I mean, speaking essentially of the bill, I'm here to support a position that was expressed by a colleague just now. But, Adam Ivanovich, despite the fact that the committee, in its decision, proposed to adopt this bill only in the first reading, the conclusion of the Chief Scientific Expert also tended to be accepted only in the first reading and to make changes to the second reading, colleagues Bodnar, Carmazin said that it could not be adopted in the second reading, that the law was passed in violation of the Rules in general. In fact, he is causing severe damage to domestic goods, endangering the lives and health of Ukrainians but. I am no longer talking about the fact that the bill in question has repeatedly been rejected by the Supreme Council in a similar way during the previous call. However, as a result of the support of a domestic producer and the protection of the lives and health of consumers, the decision must be overturned in order to avoid such things in the future. But we understand what the outcome is going to be right now, so there's only one thing to say that the lawlessness in the legislative sphere continues. The fourth month of plenary vacations, most continue and try to resolve in one day everything that needs to be decided in two weeks of plenary work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u29	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u30	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear people's deputies, there's a saying in Ukrainian: "What is done quickly is born blind." Sadly, though, this law, the venerable majority, will lead to the fact that in a direct sense blind people or persons with disabilities may be born in Ukraine, do not give God up, and so on. That is why this law was rejected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Think about it: this is September 23, 2010, December 21, 2010, October 18, 2011, November 15. Then it is taken thoughtlessly, as it was accepted. Absolutely right colleague Bodnar and absolutely right colleague Perestenko, who reported today, and colleague Sas. In developed countries of the world, including the European Union, a hard market control system is in place. In Ukraine, 40 technical regulations have been adopted, more faithfully, because there are no funds to accept them. As a result, it opens the way for counterfeit and irresponsible, unverified products to be supplied in Ukraine. As a result, there may be a weakening of control over the state’s produce to come. And that's why this law is harmful. This law is contrary to the Constitution, which is contrary to common sense, human health. It does not respond to the national interests of Ukraine. She was absolutely right to say and wrote in her ruling, draft decrees, colleague Olga Bodnar, that the consumer would not be able at all to know whether or not the product met the requirements of technical regulations. As a result, he needs to be canceled. I'm talking to you. If that's all you do, you're no longer in vain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u31	Question completed. You'll be in a faction or a group, then you'll get the word. I'm voting on a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on the abolition of the registration of declarations of conformity. [[Registration number 11242-P]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:58:17]] For-56 The decision is not taken. The factions. The Party of Regions – 1, BUT – 21, Our Ukraine – 7, the Communists – 25, the People's Party, the Reforms – did not vote, the non-fractional – 2. Let's move on to "Inclusion in the agenda of the day session." We need to include Bills No. 11221 in the agenda of the day session, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation. [[new editor]] And registration number 11160 is the draft Law on the Development of Cooperation in Agriculture of Ukraine. Please vote. Take down the vote. Yeah, I can see they're desirable. Sign up for factions, please. Please, Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u32	Please hand over the deputy, John the Rabbit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u33	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, I can't understand the logic of shaping the order of today's plenary session. There are bills on agricultural cooperation submitted by the government. [[new editor]] There are laws on the development of cooperation in agriculture submitted by the deputies. But there's my law that also regulates this area, and I don't see it in order of day. This is about amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislation to encourage the development of agricultural cooperatives. Because each of you knows that problem number 1 for the village today is the unfair purchase of agricultural products — milk, meat, potatoes, vegetables, and fruit. And why did it cost so little when 50 or 70 copies per kilogram of potatoes nobody wants to buy it? The land is full of bogs. Now I'm driving down the Plainland and I'm seeing how human labor is failing. So is 1.50-1.60 for milk -- and no one wants to take that milk. And there's a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the minimum purchase price, where the minimum purchase price for the collected milk is set at 2.20. Similarly, no one wants to do so. Today, the peasant is being robbed by all of these redundancies, all of these reprocessing companies. I can also talk about meat. So why is my bill, which deals with the very issue of farm workers who take sides with a farmer today, with those who grow potatoes, those who grow meat, those who grow other agricultural products that are not included in the agenda? And it's been put down for a long time! I'm going to remind you that there's already one piece of legislation that I have on service cooperatives that's been broken because it's said that we should do it in a different way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u34	Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u35	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, you remember that I used to bring here a basket of salt products. Yes, it was still produced by Ukrainians. With today’s government, the situation is that this product will now be grown by Chinese, Chinese minubrators, Chinese loans, and so on. That is, not accepting the Yulia Timoshenko programme, which was being implemented as part of the development of rural cooperation. And this is an ancient tradition of Ukrainian agriculture, when a strong peasant, with support, at that time the state, once again at the Stolipe, created conditions such that Ukraine overthrew the entire world with produce. Today, Ukraine’s village is degraded by the fact that a huge number of lands are now occupied with monocultures — corn, soybeans, sunflower, and rape. It's convenient for today's authorities, it doesn't need villages, it doesn't need roads, it doesn't need hospitals, it doesn't need anything. It takes a 100 - mile [100 km] race to drive imported tractors there, to see the city in a week, to move production abroad, to Cyprus to send money, to enjoy. Well, there's a need for cooperative development. But one stable Ukrainian law is needed for all times and is said to be for all nations. And this law, which is proposed, divides cooperatives into one another, white and black, those who will receive the support of the State, and those who will not receive it. So I think maybe the new Council, which will have a democratic majority, will create a natural law on cooperation. Otherwise our village will die without cooperation. And the village was always the base of Ukraine, where culture actors and big economists and big scientists and stuff like that came out. So I want to say that this law that is being proposed today is not fair. But nevertheless, it has some elements that could be supported. But remember what Julia Timoshenko was doing: buying mini-molech factories, mini-pig farms, and working. And today it's just a chat, I'm sorry, and nothing new. And the Chinese are going to Ukraine, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u36	Please, Chechetov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u37	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I will not waste time arguing about the relevance of the bill, it is understandable. And I agree with the position of the Company and with the position of the respectable Ivan Alexandrovich. With Compartia, there is probably a need to vote separately in favour of the bill, the introduction of a government bill, and separately for the author's bill. With regard to the respected Ivan Alexandrovich, I believe that his bill will also have to be considered. After 28 numbers, we will still work here, we will adopt the budget, we will accept the budget in our conscience, and we will definitely accept it by 17 December, and we will consider the third draft, the alternative, Ivana Alexandrovic. I think it'll be absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u38	Yes, dear colleagues, since there are suggestions, I thought they were the same, although not an alternative, but on the same subject. The author of Bill 11160 insists. Peprestenka, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u39	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, is that the activities of agricultural cooperatives in Ukraine and their infrastructure are not currently marked at all, and this is precisely what the law says. One of the most pressing problems in Ukraine is the lack of cooperative rural development that would contribute to the further development of its infrastructure, agricultural market infrastructure, the positive impact on price fluctuations in the production, food market, the creation of a transparent network of producer organizations, the cultivation of produced products by small producers and private individuals and farmers. Optimization of the costs of small agricultural producers for the acquisition of means of production, facilitation of access to agro-service services, efficient use of marketing channels, maintenance of processing, and therefore an increase in income is possible only through the integration of small agricultural producers into cooperatives. The process of creating and operating them is hampered by both the lack of the legislative framework identified in our State and the policies to promote the creation and development of cooperation. We also have limited access by small producers to State support programmes. This, in turn, inhibits the increase in agricultural cooperatives in Ukraine as one of the most important components of the agricultural market in Ukraine. Regrettably, today's State policy creates conditions for reducing the production of agricultural products for individual farmers and natural persons of farmers. The results, the volume of proceeds for processing, are decreasing, and opaque schemes are being developed to implement the products for processing. As a result, there has been a steady decline in the number of small agricultural producers and the migration of the labour population.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u40	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u41	From rural areas. This poses a major threat not only to peasants but also to Ukraine's entire agro-industrial complex, as well as to its productive security and food security.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u42	Thank you. A disgrace, one minute, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u43	Please, Hanuchtak Yuri, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! This project, which is now being submitted, is some kind of a collective salt plant. You can't do that. How could an authority be a member of an organization that aims to earn profits? It's not a utility. This is a very clear mechanism for entrepreneurship. The authority cannot engage in entrepreneurial activities because it has a monopoly on power. That is why this law is not, in principle, to be considered. And after 28 numbers, I'm sure no one would put it in the agenda. Absolutely ridiculous. It's totally not normal. And all of its provisions can be regulated by other legislation, including changes to tax legislation. Therefore, it is not serious to put it even in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u44	Question completed. Dear colleagues, I have announced two, but they insist that each vote individually, so we will vote individually. The proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation is put to the vote. [[new editor]] Registration number 11221. Please vote. [[11:10:14]] For 223 Not turned on. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act on the Development of Cooperation in Agriculture of Ukraine. Registration number 11160. Simonenko, Leshchenko, Perestenko – authors. Please vote. [[11:10:46]] For-35 Not turned on. Who wants to go back to Bill 11221? I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:11:09]] For 231 We're back. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 11221]] [[11:11:38]] For 239. Questions in the agenda are included. Honorable colleagues, in view of what we are. I see we're going to need more time to consider the issue than planned. So I'm voting on the proposal to work today before the agenda is finished. Please be supportive. [[11:12:14]] For 252 Decision taken. I would like to place a motion for amendments to the Earth Code in the agenda of the day session. [[on the circulation of agricultural land]] [[Registration number11315]] Please sign up. Arjovitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u45	Please give John the Rabbit a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u46	Please, Rabbit. Get ready for Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u47	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! Here we have approached one of the key laws to be considered by this office of the Supreme Council. It's about trade, buying and selling agricultural land. And the authors of this bill suggest that we don't sell agricultural land until the Law on Circumstances of Agricultural Lands is passed. It gives the government six months to draft such a bill. You know that there was the Law on the Market of the Earth before, and the idea of this law was that whoever had the money should buy agricultural land. I think the same idea will be put into the next bill. Because no one in Ukraine wants to build a farm type, no one wants to help a single person or a farmer today. Everyone wants to take the land to the Ukrainians today, everyone wants to trade it today, everyone wants to make the same living as they did in the stores. So this bill is only, to some extent, possibly for six months, suspending the moratorium on the purchase and sale of agricultural land. But we don't see what the authors want to do about this term of circulation of agricultural land: whether they want to give land to Ukrainians, or whether they want to depopulate Ukrainians today, depopulate the village. Because what I see happening in the village today, I see only one thing that the government of Azarov, the Yanukovich regime is doing everything to get the Ukrainians out of the village, they're doing everything to get the Ukrainians to sell or leave this land, so that foreigners can come here to grow agriculture, not their citizens, but those who come to Ukraine. And we see this kind of policy, and that's why we're protesting this kind of policy, because we want Ukrainian land to belong to Ukrainians, we want Ukrainian land to feed, first of all Ukrainian citizens, we want Ukrainian land to be the source of Ukrainian tradition, Ukrainian spirit, Ukrainian custom, and not become the object of speculation of rich people, not become.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u48	Smoker, please. Behind him is Cowchuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u49	Honorable MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Our MPs will support this bill, even though we think it's a palatifist and that it won't solve all the issues that have arisen in the country today. The situation in agriculture and the overall situation in the countryside today is catastrophic enough. Catastrophe because the village is simply being destroyed, young people leave the village, and there is no working force left in the village today. If we allow the sale of the land now, there will be no people left in the village, since the village has already lost its livestock. In our view, what we're going to continue for six months is a positive one, but this moratorium doesn't solve all the village issues. Reforms are needed in the village. And what today is, the legislation that is today, the socio-economic relations that have already taken place in the countryside, they don't solve problems -- not food, not agriculture, not the problems of rural areas. That's why we advocate a comprehensive solution to all the problems in the village. Once again, we propose to support today’s bill. But the new Supreme Council is about to come up with serious issues in support of agriculture, serious issues in support of the village. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u50	Cowchuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u51	This bill is another lie for peasants. Because the vast majority in Parliament have already done almost everything to take the land away from the peasants. In the first reading, the Law on the Market of the Earth was passed. At night, the State Land Bank was voted and created, in violation of the Rules, in violation of the Constitution. The draft, which is now under consideration, states that the moratorium will continue until the Act on the Circumvention of Agricultural Assignment Lands takes effect. What difference does it make what will be called the law, whether it is about the circulation of agricultural land, or the Law on the Market of the Earth? The ultimate goal is for everyone: they want to take away the last thing that has not yet been stolen – the land of agricultural destination. The reasons and arguments for this have been felt by peasants for almost three years. No subsidies for any type of agricultural production. The cost of agricultural production is lower than its cost. A peasant is brought to despair. Therefore, the scheme is simple: now to name a different bill instead of a "land market" – the Law on the Circumstances of Agricultural Assignment, to continue for 6 months – and then do everything they can, in violation of the Constitution, to vote in violation of the Rules – and to take the land away. This bill clearly states that it cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u52	One minute, Mishchenka. And Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u53	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergei Mishchenko. You know this is another step to take the land from the peasants. Why? And because there are already two corrupt devices and schemes, how they're going to do it. Because the first reading adopted the Land Market Act, which states that the tenant has the right without the consent of the owner of the pie land to deposit this pie to the bank. What does that mean? That banks are going to take these pies away from people. The second, another, is that because of so - called weeds, they refuse to rent this land to peasants, they will plant it with weeds, and in a year they will impose a fine, and then they will take the land away. That's a different scheme. Therefore, there is no need to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u54	Gordine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u55	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would like to say that under the curtain of today’s cadence, sadly, it has become clear to all that the fate of the Ukrainian land has been resolved. The representatives of the great international capital and the inner barriers, their interests coincided. They have a great interest in our Ukrainian land, for they understand that whoever owns it will feed the half world. Our very barracks realize that there is nothing left to sell, so they decided to make huge profits for the sale of our land. This is done in the absence of a practical legislative field. What they did with the Land Market Act, they ripped out the better pieces today to ward off. This legislation. They put it in others. And today, talking about the circulation of land, they're camouflaged.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u56	Chechtev, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable radio audiences! I want to reassure everyone and, above all, those who listen, the radio voters. The Party of the Regions has drafted a law banning it in order to avoid political speculation. It's a ban and a ban! Moratorium for sale of agricultural land. I repeat, this law prohibits the sale of land until the Land Market Act is passed, and the Land Market Act will never be adopted in this Hall unless a public consensus is reached in terms of understanding the philosophy of the law. So that we will not allow the land of the Ukrainian peasantry to be depopulated, so that we do not sell the land to foreigners. This law will not be passed through the knee; discussions and round tables will be held for another year and two more. But today, a party of regions is proposing to everyone, without any deception, to vote in favour of the law of the Party of the Regions, which prohibits the sale of land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u58	I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Land. [[on the circulation of agricultural land]] [[Registration number11315]] [[11:23:00]] For 241 It's on. The factions. Region Party – 191, Fatherland – 0, Our Ukraine – 3, Communists – did not vote, People's Party – 20, Reforms – 17, non-fractional – 10. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 on the increase in the cost of technical refurbishment and protection of work in coal-fired enterprises. [[Registration number 11328]] Shall we vote? Please vote. [[11:24:02]] For 265 Included in the agenda. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on the payment of work in academic institutions]] [[Registration number 11322]] Please vote. [[11:24:39]] For 268. Included in the agenda. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to Appendix 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on the redistribution of expenditure to the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources]] [[Registration number 11305]] Please vote. [[11:25:17]] For 238. It's on. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on the budgetary assignments of the Ukrainian Holding Agency]] [[Registration number 11313]] Please vote. [[11:25:51]] For 264 Copy that. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 (for the purchase of medical vehicles and equipment for health facilities) (registration number 11343). Please vote. [[11:26:26]] For 266 Decision taken. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012." Please vote. [[on the financing of the modernization and reconstruction of the gas transport system]] [[11:27:00]] For 267 Decision Adopted We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on financing the construction of a gas station in the city of Colkina of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Please vote. [[11:27:35]] For 266 Decision taken. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code of borrowing from the general budget fund of the M. Kiev to pay off the debt on a long-term basis. [[Registration number 11272]] Take it off, please. Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this bill. Because the point is that we now have to make a rule forever in the budget code when the Kiev City Council has the right to enter into any amount of commitment without any restrictions. Today, by the way, 10 percent is in operation. More than 10 percent of the local budget is not eligible. Now we're taking these locks off at all. Well, please tell me, how can we go, let the Kiev City Administration work without restrictions on participation? You know that the general budget of our country has no right to include the standard that we set with you. Now we offer to allow the Kiev City Administration to engage without restrictions. Well, if we have a problem, 2 billion per promissory notes that need to be extinguished this year, well, let's increase by 2 billion, let's let these 2 billion cover the bills? Well, you can't shoot at all without restrictions, get any amount of involvement into the local budget. I think, Your Honor, let's think about it. Because it's a big danger and a threat to the local budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u60	Congrats, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u61	Jury's shame, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget code is the budgetary constitution. So some of the decisions that have to be made are extremely dangerous. The problem that has arisen can be addressed in other ways. For example, it can be regulated by a separate subsidy for the city of Kiev to pay off the corresponding debt. And this is a much better way, it doesn't have to change the budget code. By the way, it can be regulated using the rule of the budget code itself. Because, in fact, the standards of 74 articles and the norms that provide for the formation of the development budget are the rules that allow the system of local budgets to be balanced in general as it is now with the state budget, and which I have tried to stop by way of what will be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on the one hand, colleague Hanustak is absolutely right not to interfere with the code, to decide otherwise. And on the other hand, we're here, look, allowing the Kiev City Council in 2012 as an exception, which is this standard being adopted once, even though it was better to do what a colleague of Hanustak suggested. But it's a one-time norm, so it's not forever. I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on borrowing from the general budget fund of M. Kiev to pay off the debt for the long-term accounts. [[Registration number 11272]] Please vote. [[11:31:41]] For 264 It's on. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[on the formation and implementation of national and local budgets]] [[Registration number 11332]] Please vote. [[11:32:16]] For 235 It's on. We're looking at the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the State Budget. Now, now. We need to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on the financing of infrastructure projects]] [[Registration number 11344]] Please vote. [[11:32:58]] For 259. It's on. We need to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. [[Registration number 11335]] Please be supportive. Let's look at it and talk about it. [[11:33:33]] For 265 We need to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to clarify certain provisions. [[Registration number 11186]] Please vote. [[11:34:01]] For 238. It's on. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the amendment of section VI, paragraph 9, of the Act on Ukrainian Depository System on Ukrainian Treasury Obligations. [[Registration number 11321]] Yes, please, Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor to draw your attention to the fact that, if we intend to accept this today in the second half of the day, these changes in general, I want us to do something about this, especially the author, yet to regulate this standard, because today two things are proposed. To amend the recently adopted Act on the Depositary System of Ukraine, but we have adopted this law that we only have a non-documentary form in Ukraine. We are now making changes that we allow documentary form, or paper form, for treasury obligations. So we're making an exception for these very valuable papers. Well, there may be some reason why they don't trust the Cabinet of Ministers, why they bring it, why they require paper carriers to make people see their obligations real. But I am most concerned about the standard of what the National Bank of Ukraine seems to have the right to serve all emissions of securities from all operators. There are four laws that state that the National Bank works exclusively with the government's securities: treasury, bonds, internal, external, OPCW. It's a function of the National Bank's depository. If we leave it like this: either the National Depositary of Ukraine, or the National Bank of Ukraine, this editor will claim that the National Bank will now serve all the Ukrainian securities. The author agrees that the National Bank only works with state authorities. So I'm asking, secondly, when we're going to accept as a whole, that we do listen to that some changes have to be made here, and the National Bank has to serve exclusively state securities in its depository.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u64	Yes, thank you. I put to the vote: to include in the agenda of the daily session the draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 9, of the Act on Ukraine's Depository System on Ukraine's Treasury Commitments. [[Registration number 11321]] Please vote. [[11:37:04]] For 266 Copy that. Please, Suškevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u65	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, I request you to include in the agenda Bill 11296 – the National Budget of Ukraine for the Redistribution of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports. This is the Paralympic champion, champion of the world and of Europe, the world recorder of Krizanovsky Dmitr, who has been exposed during the Paralympic Games to the tumor of the shoulder joint. He's moving into a wheelchair. And there's a decision, an order from the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the State Budget Act to treat our Paralympic champion abroad, because it's a very difficult and difficult situation. [[No.750]] [[on the redistribution of expenditure from the Ministry of Sport to the Ministry of Defence.]] I ask you to support the transfer of funds from the Ministry of Sport to the Ministry of Health, a small sum to operate on our Paralympic champion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u66	Dear colleagues. There is indeed such an order from the Cabinet of Ministers, let us make a decision. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on the redistribution of the expenditure of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 11296]] Please vote. [[11:39:01]] For 276 A decision has been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u67	There's no need for factions. When we look at it. Dear colleagues, I address the committee heads. Please, those questions that you're willing to consider, and some of them already, I know, are committee decisions that have been considered. So at the 16th meeting at night, we're going to consider, especially, what's related to budget expenditure. Because this is where we need to work quickly. The committee's decision is your decision to make. Leave it to the committee. Kenzier, one minute. Everyone has a committee decision, not just you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u68	Adam Ivanovich! Adam Ivanovich, the committee's decision is offered by the session hall, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Last night at the Conciliation Council, I asked the leadership of the Supreme Council, asked the colleague to put into order a day's issue that, not only in my opinion, from the perspective of all thinking people and conscious people, is extremely important. It is a draft decree on 75 years of great terror and respect for the memory of its victims. [[Registration number 11172]] I'm asking you very much, please, fellow members of the national MPs, just if we don't take this decision today, we're wasting time. Because the 75th anniversary is about to come to the end of October, the beginning of November. So we are. The cause of our honor is to honor the memory of the hundreds of thousands of innocently murdered who lie there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u69	Yes, respectable colleagues, indeed, raised this question, as did a number of others, on the Conciliation Council, but the Conciliation Council did not agree that these issues should be considered in the agenda today. Let's move on to ratification issues. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Permanent Management of Forests to the Framework Convention on Protection and Permanent Development of Carpathians. [[Registration number 0270]] Arjewitin wants to speak. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I can't help but wonder when it comes to the Carpathian region. You know the condition of today’s Carpathians. A group of highly respected people cut out forests, especially in Zakarpat, this part of Carpathians. Another group of influential people in Ukraine have been removed from national parks and are now owned by tens of thousands of hectares. Another group, you know, we've been looking at and shouting recently that almost 500 hydro-, mini-electric power plants should be built in the Carpathian region, and all rivers have to be nailed. State programs for anti-removal, flood control programs run between 30 and 40 percent. I think if we sign this convention, neighbors like Hungary, Czech Republic, Romania, Poland, we'll be ashamed and I think maybe even though we'll fix things a little bit in the Carpathian region. That's why I'm also asking you to support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u71	Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, I have had the honour of having several international conferences in Uzhgrad on behalf of Parliament debate with our fellow parliamentarians in the Carpathian region on how to deal with the situation that has arisen in the future Carpathian region. It is quite obvious that there must be the only rules for the conduct of the States of the Carpathian region. It is clear that we should make commitments to those who make the commitment of the country of Carpathian. And it's very important that today this initiative, I'm sorry, this stupid initiative, of the local authorities of many regions, and I'm here with my colleague as deputy head of the Zacarpathian District Council, Andrey Serbailo, convinced us that one of the decisions of the Zacarpathian District Council can't make a decision about 500 or 600 small hydropower plants to tear us down there. So I am convinced that such a document should be accepted and that the local authorities should talk about keeping Carpathian money, not on the Carpathians.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u73	I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Permanent Management of Forests, the Framework Convention on Protection and the Permanent Development of Carpathians. [[Registration number 0270]] Please vote. [[11:44:27]] For 268. The law is passed. We are considering the draft Law on the Adoption of Amendments to the Agreement on the Conservation of Whale-like Black Seas, the Mediterranean Sea and the adjacent Atlantic Aquarium. [[Registration number 0278]] No objections? I'm voting on Bill 0278. Please vote. [[11:45:05]] For 266 Thank you. Decision taken. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement between States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the fight against trafficking in human beings, organs and human tissues. [[Registration number 0267]] May I vote? I'll put it to a vote, please. [[11:45:41]] For 259. The law is passed. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar on Air Connection is under consideration. Registration number 0268. May I vote? I'll bet you a vote. [[11:46:12]] For 261 Copy that. We are considering a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Greek Republic on mutual protection of classified information in the field of defence. Registration number 0272. May I vote? Vote. [[11:46:44]] For 236 The law is passed. We are considering a draft law on the ratification of the Protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on changes and additions to the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the employment and social protection of citizens of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus working abroad. Registration number 0276. Can we vote? Please vote. [[11:47:33]] For 266 A decision has been made. We are considering a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Protocol to the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Goods by Road. [[VAT]] [[Registration number 0262]] Can we vote? Vote. [[11:48:03]] For 267 The law is passed. We are discussing the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the International Carriage of Passengers and Goods by Road. [[Registration number 0275]] Can we vote? Please be supportive. [[11:48:35]] For 267 Decision taken. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development concerning participation in the work of the Steel Committee. [[Registration number 0279]] Can we vote? Vote. [[11:49:10]] For 268. Copy that. We are considering a draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Convention on the Development of a European Pharmacopoeia, as amended in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol. [[Registration number 0277]] Can we vote? Please vote. [[11:49:44]] For 265 The law is passed. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Amendments No. 11 to the Agreement on Grant No. 006 between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as the Managing Officer of the Nuclear Security Account Grant and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government-specialised firm "Cornobilska AES". [[Chernobyl AES Nuclear Security Project]] [[Registration number 0280]] Can we vote? Vote. [[11:50:30.]] For 271 The law is passed. We are considering a draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on quarantine and plant protection cooperation, registration number 0281. Can we vote? Please be supportive. [[11:51:01]] For 262 Decision taken. We are considering a draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Agreement on International Carriage of Passengers by Bus, Registration No. 0282. The committee and the science-expert authorities are offering to support it. Is there no objection? Please vote. [[11:51:37]] For 263 Decision taken. We are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Montenegro, the registration number of Bill 0284. The committee and the science-expert administration support it. Is there no objection? Please vote. [[11:52:11]] For 265 Supported. Let's move on to "Review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine." We're looking at the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Development of the Software Industry, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, the registration number of Bill 8267. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:52:52]] For 235 Supported. Reported by President Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. From the committee is Davymukka Stepan Antonovich. Oh, there's Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u74	Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Law on Holding Support for the Development of the Software Industry, adopted by the Supreme Council on 24 May 2012, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. [[Registration number 8267]] First, the introduction of a special regime for the collection and payment of a single contribution to a mandatory public social insurance on a trade mark violates the constitutional principles of protection by the State of all property rights, tenure, equality before the law, and this article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine will result in the loss of the Pension Fund up to six billion dollars a year, which will give rise to an urgent need for grants from the State budget to the Pension Fund. This, in turn, will cause underfunding for economic and social development programmes and will cause them to fail. Second, the legal position on development. On January 1, 2013, until December 31, 2022, the only social contribution, based on the number of employees employed during the reporting period, did not correspond to article 22 of the Constitution, would have a negative impact on the size of insurance payments. In addition, the head of state considers it necessary to determine directly in this law the owners of the software industry for which state support is to be extended. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u75	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. Yes, from the committee is Stepan Antonovich Davymuk. None. Then let's go to the repairs. First President's proposal. The committee says that it has lost its relevance to the adoption of amendments to the Tax Code. Yuri Romanovich, president's first proposal. The committee says that it has lost its relevance to the adoption of amendments to the Tax Code, that is, we do not vote. The president's second proposal is taken into account by the committee. Please be supportive. [[11:55:59]] For 255 Copy that. So I put it to a vote: to adopt the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Development of the Software Industry, taking into account the President's proposals. [[Registration number 8267]] Please vote. [[11:56:37]] For 261 Thank you. The decision has been made. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u76	Invite the deputies to the session room. Consider the question of the election and the release of judges. I invite you, on the question of electing judges, to speak to the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Igor Leonovich Samsin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u77	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! According to article 76, part 3, of the Ukrainian Law on Judicial Justice and the Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of that Act, and examined the referral of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions and organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine on a stand-by basis during the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to appoint judges on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u78	We're looking at the Bill of Judgement number 11339. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u79	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine Blažovska Natalija Evgenovna, Golyashkin Oleg Volodymyrovich, Pasicnik Svetlana Sergiyevna, Sagittarius Hennadian; The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Zinkov Viktor Ivanovich, Pirozhenka Alexandr Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Wolovic Nina Fedorovna, the Croat of Svetlana Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Tiho Irina Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of Sevastopol Kozub Olen Victorovna; Zhitomir's Administrative Court of Appeal Shevchuk Svetlana Mikhailnov; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Kostov Mikhail Vasilovich; Sevastopol Administrative Court of Appeal Condrak Natal Josifovna, Muntyan Olga Ivanovna; Economic Court of the Donetsk Region of Boyko Irina Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, to the Lviv Court of Appeal, not Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich, our colleague, but Kostov, just a co-sounding name. Because I understand you've been paying attention. Yes, I didn't see any comments, so I'm putting to the vote a motion to accept Supreme Council of Ukraine Order No. 11339 "On the Election of Judges." Please vote. [[12:33:29]] For 261 I'll take the order. Project Regulation 11339-1. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u81	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Karavayev Constantine Mikolayovich; the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Denisova Vitalia Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Malta, Eugenia; the Court of Appeal of the Zakarpatsk District of Bondarenko Yuri Aleksandrovitch; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district of Stefurak Evgen Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv district of Gusal John Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Susma District of Runov Vladimir Yuriovich; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Kostenko Tetjan Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Koroid Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u82	I don't see any comments, so I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Supreme Council Order on the election of judges. [[Registration number 11339-1]] Please vote. [[12:34:55]] For 260 Decision taken. Draft decision 11339-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u83	The Dwarf Hope Gregory was duly informed, but did not attend the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. As far as I know, the application to defer consideration of her issue should have been sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u84	I am informing you that a statement has been made to the Supreme Council by the judge of the District Court of Kiev Lopatyuk: "I request my application to elect me as judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal not to consider, as I have, under family circumstances, decided to continue the judge of the District Court of Kiev. So she's practically refusing to go to higher office, so we don't have the right to assign her violently. Right, Igor Leonovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u85	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u86	Therefore, the question is not considered. Thank you. Let's move on to issues related to the dismissal of judges. The word has the head of the High Council of Justice, Kolesnicko Volodymir Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Hello. Project Regulation 11219-4. The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 5, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 105, 111 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 32 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice proposes to release the Humane Natalia Mikolayovna from office of the judge of the Skolov District Court of the Lviv Region in connection with the violation of the oath of the judge, namely, for his indemnity with his official duties? ligatures: the order of an illegal order to secure a lawsuit and to stop the execution of a valid court order for the collection of 33 million fines for a lawsuit of 10,000 fines, a violation of the order and deadlines for the referral of appeals to the court of appeal, etc. All the facts of the gross violations of the courts are established at the High Council of Justice. This question is referred to the day’s message, which is presented to the day’s Supreme Council for the third time. The first two times was postponed. First, because this is the first time. Second of all, she was sick. Third, there is a telegram about her time and place of consideration of the matter in the Supreme Council and in order. Now there are no obstacles to being considered without her participation. As far as the violation is concerned, this is an example of a classic raid by the General Court, a general jurisdiction over the decision of the Supreme Court of Commerce of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u88	Thank you. I understand the situation, fellow believers. There's no judge. But there is a report that on October 12, she received a telegram that she was invited to attend today. She ignored our sessions. There's no explanation for her absence. That's why we can, and we've already put it off twice, so we can look at it. Is there no objection? I am voting on the proposal of the High Council of Justice to accept the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order 11219-4 on the release of the Humane Hope of Mikolayovna from the office of Judge of the Skolov District Court of the Lviv Region in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please be supportive. [[12:38:53]] For 257 I'll take the order. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues! We have considered the questions. Let us welcome today’s appointed judges. We wish them success in their hard work of protecting citizens’ rights and freedoms. Let us consider the questions. Draft Law approving the State-wide targeted social programme against tuberculosis for 2012-2016. [[Registration number 11046]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:39:54]] For-200 The decision is supported. But I don't see a reporter. No, wait, and the co-connoisseur doesn't even have one. Now we're going to find out where the health department is. And Bachette's was recently. Let's do it this way, dear fellows, for the time being. Now we're going to get information about the reporters. We're looking at a project to amend the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs. [[on rates for the conduct of State registration of immovable property rights]] [[Registration number 8296]] We have a letter from the committee signing the head of the Committee of the Homutinika, requesting that, in view of preparing for consideration in the second reading of the draft Law on State Customs, which was adopted earlier, they wish to unify these bills, they should postpone the consideration of the matter. [[Registration number 9737]] Is there no objection? Question to whom? Suchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! It's interesting how we're holding a plenary session today. Initially, 64 questions were recommended for the day’s work. Then 80 were recommended. After the Conciliation Council, in fact, apart from ratification, all questions have been replaced, and today such problems arise. I think I need to change something, although I understand it, and it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u90	That's right. In the new calling, let us change those who will pass, those who will go to Parliament. Yes, dear colleagues, I understand, there is no objection. Thank you. I see the reporters showed up. Please, we have already voted with you that the bill on the approval of the State-wide targeted social program against tuberculosis will be discussed in a simplified procedure. So please have the first Deputy Minister of Health, Moses Alexandrovna. Prepare Bachelor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u91	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The National Programme on Tuberculosis has been introduced to date in view of the relevance of the topic to the implementation of the National Plan of Action. The National Program, which was carried out earlier, covered the period since 2007. This program has had a direct effect on the reduction of tuberculosis mortality and disease. The disease was reduced by 13 percent, by 31 percent. This program, which is being introduced to the Supreme Council today, also sets itself up with the task of reducing the disease, the incidence of tuberculosis almost four times, to 16 times 100,000, and reducing the death rate by 31 percent, no less. Today, the National Programme is consolidating the efforts of government funding, local funding, and the funds that are currently being allocated by the Global Fund. All the measures are completely out of line with funding this year. A global fund of up to $60 million is expected to incur these funds. The national program is extremely relevant, so please consider the issue of acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u92	Yes, thank you, Raisa Alexandrovna. Have a seat, please. The Head of the Committee on Health Care, Baychev Tetjana Dmitrovna, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u93	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the Committee on Health at its meeting on October 2, reviewed the draft of the new General Programme against Tuberculosis, scheduled for the period until 2016, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council its support. This is very important, as in recent years, despite the positive developments in this area, as we have heard a report from the deputy minister, the rates of disease and death from tuberculosis in Ukraine remain very high. There has been an epidemic of tuberculosis in our country for over 15 years. During this time, we lost about 150,000 of our citizens. In Ukraine, 4 people suffer from TB every hour and 1 person dies. Ukraine takes second place in Europe at the rate of increasing multi-resistible tuberculosis and fourth place in the world because of its prevalence in the first-discovered patients. This is the third program. We heard that the second program ended in 2011. And I'm calling on representatives of the Ministry of Health to step up the work for all government programs, because it's your direct and priority duty. Because 2012 is over, and we're the only ones looking at it right now. It shouldn't be like that. As the author of the new edition of the Law on Tuberculosis Control, signed by the President of Ukraine on April 13, I would like to conclude that the draft programme is designed to take account of its situation and allow it to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u94	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u95	Thank you. Some 2 billion dollars are planned for funding the program. And it's going to be very important for the fight against tuberculosis. Please support the project on the basis of the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u96	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Yes, please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u97	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please support this bill, it is extremely important. It is indeed necessary to challenge the Ministry that this program is prepared with delays, since the previous program ended in 2011. I just want to point out that this program is in line with the WHO TB Strategy. Such programs based on the WHO Strategy have been tested and successfully implemented in the Baltic countries, Belarus, Romania. They have shown their effectiveness in reducing tuberculosis. Because if we don't invest money today, it's gonna be late tomorrow. Because 16 percent of TB patients today are multi-resistant patients who do not have conventional drugs. And what's particularly important is that 14 percent is a combination of tuberculosis and AIDS. These patients are in general a very difficult category. Therefore, this one, despite certain sins, needs to be voted for both in the first reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u98	Thank you, Sergey Gordienka, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u99	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The faction unanimously supports the bill. But we would like to draw attention to another that the problem is more serious. It has economic and social roots. Today, when we talk about combating tuberculosis, we should take serious care of improving the quality of life. We need to talk about eliminating unemployment today. We need to talk today about raising wages and people can eat properly, pensions, social pay. We should also talk today about the fact that we should not close medical institutions or so - called optimisation to conduct, but rather seriously engage in the prevention of this disease. And only in the complex can this result in a positive result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u100	Thank you. Question completed. Chaplain, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u101	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. On behalf of the MP group, I want to figure out the following. In fact, a bill is needed, but we've come to a consensus that we're almost a year late. Let me remind you that in 2011, the previous program ended and we have been living without it for almost six months. However, please look at the following: there is no program in this program, which is the main one, i.e. there are no estimated risks and there are no, let's say, responsible, no stages. budget, and so on, it can't be that way. And I have a request, the next time, and this applies not only to the Ministry of Health, but also to all other executives, when such drafts or similar programs are being made, don't involve any professional project managers, because it's not a program, it's a declaration, it's a confused process and project approach at all. Such as increasing the number of cases or preventing an increase in the number of cases or treating side effects as work to be done and no work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Question completed. Indeed, we are discussing an extremely pressing problem. And if I'm right, the data tells us that for an hour, every hour, we have at least four people in Ukraine who have tuberculosis, and within that hour, one person is going out of life in connection with tuberculosis. Therefore, there is no doubt that efforts must be made to ensure that the programs are implemented. Because Karpuk, who was before 2011, says the program was not very enjoyable, and the results are not very comforting. Therefore, I propose to support the proposal of a profile committee to adopt the Law approving the State-wide Targeted Social Programme against TB for 2012-2016. [[Registration number 1104]] Please vote. [[12:51:38]] For 272 Thank you, the law has been passed. We're looking at the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's General Secondary Education Act on the Filling of Classes and the Restructuring of Public Education Institutions. [[Registration number 9062-D]] Please support the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[12:52:19]] For 209 Supported. Stepan Antonovich Davymuk, please, from the profile and as the author of the bill, one of the authors of the profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the corresponding bill was submitted for further work, the committee worked on it, and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a whole. The bill proposes to reduce the minimum number of pupils in the class from five to three, four by amending the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act to preserve the network of general educational institutions located in rural areas. Also, to establish that the restructuring or liquidation of public educational institutions based on communal property or transferred to municipal property is carried out by decision of the local government representative body in which the educational institution is administered is permitted in rural areas only by agreement of the territorial communities. The committee has worked out proposals and amendments that have come from the legal entities of the legislative initiative and has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of a review of the first draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Law on general secondary education on the filling of classes and the reorganization of public educational institutions as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u104	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u105	Vladimir Karpuk. Indeed, a fairly important law at a time when the governments of one another or another of political powers are practically criticized, but despite the fact that schools have been cut down each year, especially in rural areas. And this bill, which proposes in the 1-4 classes to reduce the filling to three, and in the 5-11 to four people to decide whether to close or eliminate schools only after the decision of the local self-government authority, in the rural area by decision of the territorial community, will not allow just a reduction at the expense of economics, at first glance the convenience of such a reduction. Enough weight and we will also support the idea of accepting it both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u106	Thank you. Grivkovsky does not insist. Fedun, don't insist. Please, you're a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u107	Please, Tomenc, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u108	Excuse me, Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u109	My dear colleagues, of course, as one of the initiators and drafters of the bill that we passed on to the committee for further work, it is a pleasure that the committee, after a long discussion, brought him up for discussion. But I'm going to brief you on the fact that the first version of the bill I introduced was introduced before the 2011 school year. This means that two school years have been lost. And when the village was recruited to the first class and the question was that the first class could exist when there were five children, and if there were four children, there was no class. And in two years. A few hundred more schools have been placed before the possible closure. Prior to this academic year, the Ministry of Education sent out that they fully supported me, the government fully supported me, but no one wanted to make a decision. In July and August, I went through all of Central Ukraine, where teachers and directors didn't know what to do: three kids are a class or not a class? Four kids are class, aren't they? And now, thank God, on the last day of the election campaign, we decided to pass this bill. Of course, today’s situation is a good thing. But once again, the position of the government and the position of the committee have led to the fact that dozens, dozens of schools have been closed on the grounds that the bill has not been considered for two years. The position of experts is very simple: three children can be left in a classroom to save at least an elementary school. If there is no primary school in the village, the end of this village. For the fourth grade and above, four children to be competitive, to be able to discuss each other. In any case, my friends, if we support this bill, and I'm aspiring as one of the co-authors to vote on it in general, we'll save not one tenth, but maybe a few hundred schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u110	Thank you. Yes, the honourable colleagues, those who signed up, took the floor. There's an offer. Let's make a proposal for a profile committee: to be accepted as a law as a whole. Is there no objection? Based on what? All right, let's vote separately. Although, dear fellows, everyone understands that there will be no school in the village, in five or seven years' time the village will be gone. That's understandable to everyone. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on General Secondary Education on the Filling of Classes and the Restructuring of Public Education Institutions. [[Registration number 9062-d]] Please vote. [[12:58:39]] For 270. By factions, please: Region Party – 180, BUT – 7, Our Ukraine – 8, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, reforms – 19, non-fractional – 11. There was a proposal for a profile committee: in general. Please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u111	Adam Ivanovich, this is the danger of the pre-election period. We are all well aware of what, including this document, requires of itself. It's a fund-raiser. And in order to finally vote for it, at least we must have at least the views of the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue. It's elemental! We work together! If we want to just put dust in our eyes, let's scream this hour, and if we want to solve this issue and accept it as a whole, we need to follow the procedure that we have. And I would support that. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u112	Yes, all right, dear fellows! Adopted in the first reading. Let's go to "Other Readings." We are considering a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. [[Registration number 11071]] [[second reading]] Reported the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky. Yes, who from this committee is ready to report? Then let's take the table, 11071. Carmazin’s 1 correction is rejected. Don't insist. Kiwalov, 2nd. Don't insist. Pantychuck, 3rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u113	Gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yuri Hanustak. My amendment is that these persons should not be deported to a country of origin where they do not always exist, but to a country where they came from. To catch these people directly across the border and return there accordingly. Because we have to save the government's money and not do these "magnificents" that we do, that people collect, collect, collect, and then half the area feeds them. Immediately, they were stopped on the eastern border and immediately returned to where they had come from. And that's exactly what my correction is. I ask your support, and very many people will say "thank you" for that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u114	The 3rd amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:01:50]] Z-11. Not supported. Carmazine, 4th doesn't insist. Carmazine 5th, accounted for. 6th, accounted for. 7-a doesn't insist. 8th, Kiwalov. 9th doesn't insist. 10th Carmazin is accounted for. Pancakes, 11th?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u115	Well, I'm kind of surprised to see that half of the hall that doesn't vote for the economy of state funds, and this amendment also relates to what it takes to actually return foreigners who illegally crossed the border to the country where they crossed from. Well, unfortunately, I see that the Party of Regions has ceased to be a party of cool Donkey boys, well, such techniques, and became the branch of the One Russia, well, and accordingly doomed to marginalization. And voting for this amendment will correct or confirm the fact that I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u116	The 11th amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:03:14]] For -8 The factions, please. A party of regions -- one, BUT -- three, "Our Ukraine" -- "National Self-Defense" -- three, Communists, "The People's Party" didn't vote, non-fractional -- also, "Reforms" -- one. The 12th Amendment of Ganushka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen! This is a completely technical correction, that is, a five - day period, which can be considered, but at this stage it is not defined, that is, how many days a person should stay. And if we don't put it, that is, a specific term, then we have this question. Well, the question of even financing the same, because for the term to be set, then the budget for the maintenance of the persons concerned can be calculated. I'd like this amendment to be addressed because it's completely devoid of any political element. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u118	Yes, please, 12 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:04:40]] For-7. Not supported. 13 a.m. doesn't insist. 14th, Carmazin. Counted. Everything else we've been through. I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee: to adopt a second reading and in general, although the Chief Legal Authority - "the draft needs to be noted and re-readed", the committee proposes to adopt the whole Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. [[Registration number 11071]] Please vote. [[13:05:34]] For 262 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[concerning restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] [[Bill 8282 registration number]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism, Catherine Eugenyevna Lukyanova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u119	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism at its meeting discussed a draft Ukrainian Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts. [[concerning restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] [[Registration number 8282]] The purpose of the bill is to protect children's rights through legislative restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies, including in the use of these technologies by foreign citizens. At the committee meeting, it was decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill in second reading and accept it as a whole. I would like to point out that the Chief Legal Authority has called for a bill without notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u120	Now we're going to go after the repairs. Please, Wonderful, 3rd Amendment. Don't insist. Zabarsky, 4th. Don't insist. Irina's heroine, 5th. None. Herotchenko, 9th. Olga Bodnar, 10th. Don't insist. Heroette, 12th. Carpook, 13th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u121	Adam Ivanovich, I will not insist on voting, either. But what am I drawing attention to? That we're our own legislation. There was an attempt to introduce the whole surrogate motherhood law in general. We're opening up opportunities for Ukrainians, for Ukrainian women to become. Well, as a surrogate material for foreigners, because not Ukrainians will use other countries, but Ukraine will be the country where, given all the factors, Ukraine will use to bring children to foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u122	Don't you insist on voting? This can be good: Let them bear more births and settle in Europe, and they will help us more then. Zabarski is partial. And on the 17th. Don't insist. Yes, Amazing, Zabarsky, Carmazin, Lukyanova is included. Now, now. Everything else is accounted for. Nobody insists? Then I put to the vote the proposal to adopt the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning restrictions on the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies]] [[Registration number 8282]] Please vote. [[13:09:04]] For the 250. Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering: the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[on payment of a single contribution]] [[Registration number 10671]] [[second reading]] Reports the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Vasil Georgievich Hara. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! This bill proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers amend the proportion of the distribution of a single social contribution by type of State social insurance. It is also proposed to abolish the distribution of a single social contribution by type of insurance, depending on the occupational risk classes in employment, taking into account their economic activities, and to review the rates of deduction of the budget industries, the enterprises in which the disabled are employed, the employees, the military, the civil servants and so on. A working group was established, comprising the people's deputies, Kabmin, representatives of Kabmin, the President's Administration, all social insurance funds, trade unions, employers who agreed to the proposal that is being reported to Parliament today. Five proposals were received for the second reading. The proposals of Suhogo and Karmazin have been taken into account, and three proposals of the colleague of Ganustak have been rejected because they are contrary to the basic Act on the Fundamentals of the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. The bill is provided by the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council without any comment. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept the text of the comparative table and adopt it on second reading and as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u124	Yes, let's follow the amendments, dear fellows. Yes, 1 correction of the Dry One. Counted. Pantyhuck, 2nd. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u125	The pride of Yuri. Ladies and gentlemen! So the basis for this bill was that there would be less work for accountants, and that's right, that's logical. And that's exactly what my amendment is about. Because if we go and directly into the law to put the ratio of redistribution, that means that we're comparing all of the absolute categories of enterprises and all of the employers that can't be, because in fact the costs that go on, for example, in metallurgical industries to the accident fund, they're not commensurate with those that go on for office workers. Therefore, my second amendment refers to what should be the only payment commission but cannot be made by law. And how to do that, I'm saying in 3 amendments, which we're going to vote on separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u126	2 amendments shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:12:17]] For the five of us. It's not over, 5. Please, 3 revisions, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u127	Jury's shame, Fatherland's. Just at 3am, I'm saying that a specific distribution of payers is determined by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers because these rates can float there. But after that, just after this decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, the payer pays the only, indeed, payment document. And this goes back to this, that for metallurgical industries, this could be one redistribution, where it's moving towards the exact accident, and for enterprises of another category, it could be another redistribution. So this logic is exactly what I'm going to do. And I think the President, when he decides to sign this law, he recognizes the logic of that approach, because at the moment it's a comparison, it can't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u128	The 3rd amendment shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:13:42]] For -6 Not supported, but there's a rise: 5, 6. On the 4th it's probably going to be 7. Please, Yuri Ivanovich. It's a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u129	So far, I can see that it's tied together, all these things. If the previous amendments are not supported, I think the next one is, and I don't want to waste time. You can't vote. It's coming off.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u130	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Everything else is accounted for. No one's insisting on confirmation anymore, is it? Then I'll bet. The rule of law was unattended. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. The proposal for the adoption of the Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for a Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance is put to the vote. [[on payment of a single contribution]] [[Registration number 10671]] Please vote. [[13:14:53]] For 263 Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues! Now we should be looking at Bill 10218. But literally from a minute to a minute, a comparative table will fit. So let's just take it off. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich! We are now going to consider the bills, the bloc of laws on administrative reform. I address all our colleagues. This reform has been under way for a year and a half. And it faces fierce resistance on the part of virtually all ministries that want to retain those powers that were originally and not to enter a civilized governance system. That's why there's a request. When considering these bills, where there are tables, the committees have worked, that is to say, to vote on the tables. Where there are no tables and committees sabotaged, in turn, with the support of the relevant ministries, the decision to vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! Now we're going to be with you, and now we're going to be with you. The point is that, unfortunately, the profiling committees, in support of the wishes of the ministries and the authorities with which they cooperate, do not want to submit, in the second reading, those bills that have been tabled for the implementation of the Ukrainian President's decrees. Because there's a little bit of a narrowing down on the rights of one or the other. And here goes, I'm sorry, I can say such a mild word, a quiet sabotage of adoption in the second reading of these bills. All the terms, possible and impossible, have already been fulfilled. So let's see how the hall decides. I propose and put to the vote such an offer. Now, as soon as the table comes up, we're going to transfer it, but where we're going to look at the whole set of bills relating to administrative reform, we're going to do it this way. There are tables, the committee is ready to consider. If there are no tables, the committee did not prepare, make a comment to the committee and consider a bill adopted in the first reading. Anyone for such an offer, please vote. [[13:17:37]] For the 250. So, honourable colleagues, this is Bill 10218, because they told me that right about next to the session hall, the tables would come, and we would cancel. We are considering a bill to amend some of Ukraine's inheritance laws. [[Registration number 11047]] [[second reading]] Report by the Head of the Legal Policy Committee, Sergey Grigorovich Mishchenko. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u133	Thank you. I'm going to report on a long-suffering bill that people are asking people from all over the world, villages, villages, villages to return to the order that was before when the head of the Elder had crossed out the dead man's name. For six months, the heir appeared. He wrote down the heir, stamped it, paid 85 copies of the government's tax, signed it -- that's all. And no notaries, no queues that are now kilometres and years old to get this inheritance, will be. Moreover, a person should not buy the house or the land himself, that is, the real estate. Because the earth is also part of that circle of objects that are subject to an inheritance that the head of the silage must form. Because the head of the Elder knows better in the village that he is dead than the dead husband, wife or son, or grandson. And so we must return what the people are asking us to do, not to buy a house from the father, but from this son of his grandson, but to sell his house to his son. So we have to put a dot once and for all. That is why I am grateful to those deputies who have joined this bill today. This is, first of all, the Shpak, this is Karmazin, this is Ganushtzak, this is Catherinechuk, who really worked this bill from the beginning to the end and introduced the amendments. Some have counted, some have not counted, but we must accept as the first reading the majority of the votes of all factions independent of their belongings. But this is the first step, because the second step we have to take is Bill 11203, the bill's author is Mishchenko. This is true of houses and properties and of land in cities. Because now there's going to be inequality. Why in cities, small towns: The Sumerians, Jagotín, Preyaslav, where the house costs $10,000, will also be transformed into a notary. And it's going to be thousands of dollars and the same notaries. And this law, 11203, is the second step, that you don't have to make an assessment of property, or the State moment to pay such a huge, notary service that they pay a government tax and everything. This is the first and second line for cities. So let's adopt this bill, and then we'll adopt that bill that applies to small population areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u134	Thank you. No, it's not. We'll vote in general, but first we'll go after the amendments. Yes. 3 revisions, Gnawstak. Don't insist. Mishchenko's accounted for, 5th. Carmazine, 6th. Don't insist. Gannicus, 9th. Don't insist. Panocchik, 13th. Carmazin, 14th, 15th -- Ganushtak. 16th is Carmazine. 17th is Ganustak. 19th is Carmazin. 21st Carmazin, 23rd, 24th. Gnawstak, 25th. Carmazine, 26th. Ganustak, 27th. Carmazine, 28. Ganushka, 29th. Yes. 31st, Mishchenka. Counted. Panustak, 33rd. 34th is Carmazin. 35th is Ganovstak. Shorter, yeah, yeah. Counted. Mishchenko is 37th. Catherinechuk, 38th. Counted. And 39th Mishchenka. Dear colleagues, each and every one of you understands how, if we now adopt this law, how much we will help ordinary rural people solve their daily problems. Let's support it. I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning inheritance. [[Registration number 11047]] Please vote. [[13:23:21]] For 288 The factions, please. Region Party - 189, BUT - 13, Our Ukraine - 8, Communists - 24, People's Party - 20, Reforms - 19, non-fractional - 15. I think, dear colleagues, if he becomes the law, you and I will receive the warm thanks of millions and millions of villagers. Thank you for supporting the bill. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the definition of the sides of collective negotiations. [[Registration number 10106]] [[second reading]] He reports: Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Vasil Georgievich Hara. Please, Vasil Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! On 2 October, the bill had been considered in the sessional room and a decision had been made to shorten the time frame for the second reading and consideration had been scheduled to date. During the preparation of this draft for second reading, 43 proposals by the Ukrainian people's deputies were processed by the Committee, 39 of which were taken into account and 4 were rejected. It should be noted that the proposals of the Ukrainian national deputy Hanustak Jury Ivanović were not included in the comparative table because they had been submitted to the previous project, which the authors had withdrawn and replaced by another. We couldn't help him, we could review those proposals quickly, because the deadline was 9 and the 9th we just got from him. The 10th received proposals. In addition, the proposals of the Ukrainian people's delegate had not been submitted to the committee until 12 October, and I repeat, the 9th deadline had ended, the 10th Committee had considered at its meeting, so they had not entered the table. On 10 October, a committee meeting was held to consider the proposal to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on second reading and generally as a law. Please support the Committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u136	Yeah, let's get some repairs. More than ever, almost everything is accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u137	4 not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u138	Almost everything is accounted for. Yeah, Carmazin, 16th doesn't insist. Declined. Declined Carmazin 28th, 30th, 32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u139	That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u140	32nd. Yeah, all the rest, respectable colleagues, included. Nobody insists? Well, Carmagina's off-limits, she doesn't insist. You don't? Then I put the vote to a second reading and, in general, the Chief Legal Authority has made remarks, but the committee proposes to adopt the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine regarding the definition of the sides of collective negotiations. [[Registration number 10106]] Please vote. [[13:26:48]] For 261 Not accepted. Excuse me. Copy that. Valentina Alexanderovich asked me to do something, and I said no. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, other central executive bodies, whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10219]] There's a table. Reported to the first deputy head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection, Oliynik Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u141	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, this project is designed to implement the initiative of the President of Ukraine to carry out administrative reform and to bring Ukraine into line with the Constitution and laws. Several times, the committee considered this issue, including a referral to the Ministry of Justice, and received conclusions. In general, 97 amendments were made to the table, including complete, editorial or partial 68, and the rest of the committee was rejected. Amendment No. 1 of the people’s MP Gusarova’s committee proposes to determine by vote. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted in the second reading as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u142	Yeah, let's get some repairs. Thank you to the committee that prepared the table, as opposed to the others.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u143	Adam Ivanovich, there's a first amendment to the vote, to the definition of 1st Gusarov. It's the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u144	Gussarov. An amendment that has not been decided by the committee. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u145	But the author of this project does not support the position, i.e. the preservation of a separate structure of the DAI. The author does not support, I understand, the author of Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u146	Well, the author's such a big deal. Let's say the committee isn't defined. I'm putting Gusarov's first amendment to the Supreme Council. I'd like to make a statement. The committee wasn't defined. Please identify yourself in the session room. [[13:29:33]] For 1 No correction supported. Vassilka doesn't insist. The Seminomist does not insist. Seminoga, 9 repairs. Don't insist. Carmazi, 11th Amendment. Don't insist. Miroshenko, 12th Amendment. Counted. 13 amendments. Counted. Miroshenko. Counted. Oilman, 18th Amendment. Counted. Carmazine, 22th Amendment. Don't insist. Oilman, 24th Amendment. Counted. Carmazine, 25th Amendment. Sharov, 26th. Don't insist. Dutch. 27th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 29th. Sharov, 30th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 34th. Counted. Suskevich, 40th. Don't insist. Ganoszczak, 45th. Don't insist. 51st. It's a mess. Don't insist. Seminoga, 59th. Seminoga, 67th. Seventy-two, Seminogie. 74th. 76th. 75th. Don't insist. 92th, Oily. There is also no conclusion of the committee. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, 92nd on 111th page.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u147	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u148	You don't insist, do you? I see. Sharov, 94th. Don't insist. The rest are accounted for. So, dear fellows, I bet. The principal legal administration was concerned with observations. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, other central executive bodies whose activities are directed and coordinated through relevant ministers (registration number of Bill 10219). Please vote. [[13:33:21]] For 260 Thank you. The law is passed. Did you get a 218-year-old table? Not yet? Well, is it fairer than that? Yes, we are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, other central executive bodies whose activities are directed and coordinated through relevant ministers, the State Television and Radio Committee]] [[Registration number 10220]] The committee, including one of the committees, because it's different here, is asked to move, but you and I have already made decisions about what we're going to be looking at in the first reading. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts in the form of first reading. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, other central executive bodies whose activities are directed and coordinated through relevant ministers, the State Television and Radio Committee]] [[Registration number 10220]] Please vote. [[13:35:12]] For 260 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers and the State Space Agency]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 10221]] The Committee on Culture and Spirituality was responsible. The table didn't come up. The bill in the first reading was discussed in June of this year, at the previous session. In accordance with our decision that we have made with you, I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the activities of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, other central executive bodies, whose activities are directed and coordinated by the relevant ministers, as well as the State Space Agency (registration number 10221), in the edition of the first reading. Please vote. [[13:36:35]] For 262 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food, the Ministry of Social Policy, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10222]] We are doing the right thing in the same way: I am voting on the proposal to adopt a law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts in the context of the first reading. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food, the Ministry of Social Policy, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10222]] Please vote. [[13:37:46]] For 258. Copy that. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Registration number 10223]] [[second reading]] The table didn't come up. I therefore propose to vote the adoption of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in the first reading. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Bill registration number 10223]] Please vote. [[13:38:49]] For 265 Decision taken. Decision taken. So what about the 218th law table? Dear colleagues, we are discussing the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the promotion of electricity generation from alternative sources of energy]] [[Registration number 10183]] However, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal from the profile committee, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Fuel-Energy Issues requests that the draft Law on Change be postponed to the next sessional week. Is there no objection? Yes, Miroshnichenko, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's not only. There's probably others there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! The fact is that this long - suffering and needed country has been translated many times, and the law has been postponed. And in the last session, if you remember, I quote the transcript: the chairman said, "Then let's make the commission to prepare it for October 16th. If not, we will consider it without a committee." So the sabotage that's on the committee, it doesn't allow us to pass laws, it's the law that's necessary, because it stimulates the production of electricity from alternative sources. So let us consult and make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-16-m0.u150	Let's consult, but the profile committee is asking for a transfer. No objections? It's supported, isn't it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there is a commission, but there is. Okay, I'll put it to a vote. Please support the proposal for a transfer of consideration. to support the Committee's proposal. Please vote. [[13:40:52]] For 257 A transfer decision has been made. Yes, dear colleagues, it's 10183. Bill No. 11183: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on payment to the court. The same is a letter from the Financial, Banking, Tax and Customs Committee: "In view of the fact that the deadline for submitting proposals to this bill ends on 16 October, the committee had no opportunity to consider the proposed bill." Here, as it were, it's understandable. We didn't cut the deadlines, the proposals came in, so we're moving on to the bill for the reasons stated in the Rules that they weren't ready until now. Table 218. Wait, wait, there's a table. We still have time. Dear colleagues, the Ministry of Judicial Affairs is crying out to us to support the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[Registration number 11340]] The committee will report. I think he's already considered this bill. Let's put it in the order of the day and look at it after 16 hours. Let me tell you what this is. It's just a redistribution of funds within the Ministry itself, an increase in expenditure under the management and administration of the public policy on external relations. In the Ministry of Redistribution itself. Let's keep the inclusion in the agenda. Registration number 11340. Please vote. [[13:43:21]] For 260 They've put it in the order of the day. I'm asking the Budget Committee on Budget Issues in the set of those bills that we have included today on the State Budget to prepare us for the evening session to consider it. Now, dear fellows. So since we've practically implemented, except there's no correlation table, I think after the break it'll come. Nevertheless, we are still obliged to hold an evening meeting, for the questions we have included in the morning session are to be considered. Including the bill, we'll consider 10218 when the table comes. I think she'll be at our disposal during the break. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Requests for the committees to prepare the bills included in the agenda today to submit all the necessary documents for consideration at the evening session.
