ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your jobs so that we can continue our work, and please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:21]] They registered in the session hall with cards of 319 national deputies. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, you and I have included a number of drafts in the morning and we need to consider them. Let's go to Ascania-New, let's take a look. Today we're in Ascani-New, we're working until the end. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how we'll do it today. It'll be fair. The draft Law on the General Purpose Program for the Transfer of Hostages to the Property of Territorial Communities for 2012-2015 is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10226]] The proposal from the committee to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:02:27]] For-173 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Alipov Alexander Mikolajovich. He is the head of the Committee, Rybak Volodymyr Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on the Universal Purpose Program for the Transfer of Hostages to the Property of Territorial Communities for 2012-2015 has been developed to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Realization of Housing Rights of Guests. The draft act provides for the approval of a programme for the transfer of state-owned housing units to the property of territorial communities. Quantitative and valuable performances of the actions envisaged in the program are shown in the region section. The funding of the program will be made at the expense of government and local budgets. The State allocates to local budgets the cost of community accommodation, namely, for the production of necessary technical documentation, capital repairs, construction of dormitories, interior heating networks, water supply, water supply, electricity, elevators, and so on. Local self - government authorities, based on project documentation, calculate the amount of funding needed. As a result of the program’s ownership of the territorial communities, 1,058 dormitories of state - owned property of a total area of 2.5 million square meters are planned for 4 years. The total amount of funding for the program is over 1.2 billion dollars, divided between the state and local budgets by 50-50. The implementation of the programme will allow for the transfer of shelters to the property of the territorial communities, which will enable citizens to realize more than 150,000 people, the constitutional right to housing through the privatization of the rooms in which they live. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak is the head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the draft Law on the Universal Purpose Program for the Transfer of Hostages to the Property of Territorial Communities, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The need to adopt such a program is stipulated by Ukrainian law on security, on the implementation of housing rights for residents of hostels. With the adoption of these laws, Ukrainian citizens who are legally resident in hostels and who do not have their own housing have the right to privatize housing and nonresidential housing. Today, nearly half a million Ukrainian citizens still live in hostels and do not have their own housing. The committee held committee hearings. Having discussed and examined the issues fully, the committee concluded that the adoption of the law was not being fully implemented. This is evidenced by a large number of people’s complaints and complaints. What kind of violations? Exclusion of residents without housing, contrary to the law, by the authorities of the local self - government of the privatization process by residents of their homes, by the refusal of the owners of the hostels who were included in the statutory capitals of societies. As a result of the discussion, the committee approved recommendations for hearings recommending that the Cabinet of Ministers prepare a financial year each year, starting in 2012, provide the necessary funds for the implementation of the law on hostels.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u5	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u6	Taking into account the expectations of the positive socio-economic consequences of the adoption of the bill for Ukrainian citizens, please support the committee's decision and adopt the bill as a whole as a law. Please have your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u8	Thank you. Of course, we supported a bill that dealt with the rights of people to privatize these residential rooms that are in the hostel. I'm not going to say that I've moved on. And that's why I'm bringing, whether it's the second, or where it's going to be, the suggestion: we have to actually see what's left of the state property. Can you please tell me where the famous dormitories are going? For example, I was giving an example: HBK. The director of the search took half the floor away, took half the floor away from his relatives, and no one paid attention. I'm curious, for example, and what are we going to do with the dormitories that took the banks that took the oligarchs and now built themselves there, you know, offices like that, office buildings? What are we going to do about it? Now we're dealing with, well, with these tears, with the crumbs, and we have to solve the question in general: where did the huge housing fund that belonged to our powerful businesses, whether they were famous or state-owned? That's different. We need to prevent even those dormitories that are owned by educational institutions from being placed under offices, yet for some purpose. And that's why the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support it, but it's kind of a partial solution. Let's look at what's left, why people come to the business for 18-20 years and still live there without the right to privatize.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u9	Finish up, please. Are you all right, Catherine Seed? Basil Hara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, this bill on truth is an act of justice. We know with you that 500,000 Ukrainian citizens live, practically, on bird rights. According to the numerous letters that are received, practically, to all the committees of the Supreme Council, on numerous stories on radio, television, other media, we know many cases where housing is sold together with enterprises, people are evicted, cut off water, electricity, heating, to get these people out of the dormitory and use them not by appointment. I believe that this is one of the few very fair acts that will in some way give people the constitutional right to housing. The faction of the Party of the Regions will unanimously support the bill both on first reading and generally as a law. And I am convinced that today 500,000 Ukrainian citizens will say thank you to the Supreme Council, although they do not often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u11	Vladimir Aleksandrovich Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "Fatherskina". I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u12	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Volodymyr Mikhailovich is honored. Kenzier gives me one more minute. [[NU-NS]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u13	Please. Do you confirm?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, it is indeed we have a category today, perhaps even the most unfortunate people in our society. Perhaps they are a little happier than those who have neither a circle nor a yard at all. It's too late for us to touch on this subject, and I think it's an accident that someone's slowing down this process. I was working very closely on the question in Kirovgrad, a dormitory of the former radio station on the street of Heroi Stalingrad, 13. How many of these unfortunate people were in the courts, how many times they were covered by gas, they shut down their electricity, in fact, those who privatized the plant. You know very well that the hostels were not part of the privatization system when the factories were privatized. So they were taken out of this scheme. However, huge violations have taken place all over Ukraine, where part of these hostels have actually been taken up, and so forth. Because of that, of course, be sure to make this bill with all the evidence that it seems very and very inefficient and imperfect to me, it needs to be supported. But the best thing today would be to have the city councils hand them over to those who still have a room in the dormitory quickly. Because what we're doing today, you can imagine when it's going to be passed on to, say, city governments and all that sort of stuff, how many of these miserable people are going to have to be in order to get this warrant or this paper that means they've privatized this dormitory. I think this would be the most effective moment. And I'm supporting my colleagues who have talked before about what it would be worth to figure out, and who's already picked up some of the dorm rooms, who, and on what grounds? It's perfectly clear that this is all illegal, which is why the prosecution has to work on it. Only then will we solve this colossal problem. But this law, of course, needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u15	Yes, Vladimir Caplienne. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u16	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, it's all positive here, in principle, expressed, and you don't have to repeat yourself. It is certainly a serious social project aimed at protecting the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens who live in hostels for a time on legal grounds and so forth. Yeah, it's positive. I would like to draw your attention, on behalf of the MP's Reform for the Future, to just a few issues. First of all, it's scary. What should be done with those innkeepers who have been transferred to the territorial community since 2010, according to the bill, who were evicted? And for example, like Zaporozhye’s hotels, regular hotels where local authorities make money. How can you turn back on such problems? The other one. What should be done with co-financing when some parts were generally financed by a dormitory and would, in fact, be offering their common property in this part today? I think we should work on that in the second reading. Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u17	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill with 19 votes in the first reading, and the second reading will need to be finalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u19	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I am proposing to the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law on the Universal Purpose Program for the transfer of hostels to the property of territorial communities for 2012-2015. [[Registration number 10226]] Please vote. [[16:15:28]] For 272 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care is under consideration. [[on material assistance]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:16:02]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports Boris Mikhailovich Zebrovski. Correspondent is the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u20	Dear National Deputies, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the question is simple. On the one hand, the Orphans and Deprived Children's Support Act says that when they complete their studies, they will receive two tax minimums. We're making proposals -- six. That's it, actually. It's not that big of a money. What's more, they've been planning in the budget since 2008. We need to remove these contradictions between the two laws: the Social Support Act and the Budget Act. That's it, actually. There's nothing here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u21	All right, then. Well, have a seat, then, if that's all. Catherine Eugene, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, you've heard that this is strictly technical in principle. Because under the current law, we pay children two living minimums, well, by law, and in fact, the government budget provides that we are already paying six living minimums. So we suggest that we reconcile these differences. But put a little bit into a different edition and write down not just six living minimums, but at least six. Given that the economy of the state is going to be strong, and maybe we're going to pay more than six, so we're going to suggest that we make at least six living minimums. Please support us on the basis and with this amendment as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u23	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to sign up for a discussion. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u24	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! It's okay. The one and only reporter and the other said it was a technical question. It's not a technical question. Three times, as a minimum, we increase material aid. And when it's in the budget for this year, it doesn't mean it's for all the years. The law works all the time. So we have to make it clear that we're helping these defenseless populations at least three times as many, three times as they are. And Lukyanova said, at least three times. It's not a technical question, it's the right question. And for that everyone should vote, including Vladimir Mikhailovich. Those who promised us sevenfold or what steps to take to the people. It's either 10 steps, or it's 7 steps. Where are the crocs? Where are they now? I would ask you very much to find out where the people who are now to vote, including this humanistic law, where are they? Why isn't he in the workplace? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u25	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u26	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland. Of course, this bill needs to be voted on, it needs to be supported. We today, honourable colleagues, have actually adopted two very important and I would say so, humanistic laws. It's about the disabled, about their jobs. I think that the bill we have adopted will make a very sharp and decisive improvement. Of course, it won't be perfect, I understand. But we owe it to entrepreneurs and owners and representatives of the state to take people to work and fine them if they don't. It's the second Orphan Child Bill. So we're actually giving a hand today to help orphans who are really in a very difficult situation. The fact that we're dramatically increasing their financial assistance, I think it's good for them. Because among these children, indeed, there are so many talented children who can represent our future Ukrainian. Clearly, then, this bill needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u27	Yes, Ruslan Knyazevich. Then there's Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, our faction will support this bill. And we think, unfortunately, we're a little late because it's not easy for orphans and those who are deprived of parental care, it's for high school graduates. You know that we had 12 numbers in connection with the Euro in haste, taking into account objective circumstances, graduation evenings. And I know these cases, they've even recently shown stories on TV that some of these kids couldn't even get their own graduation clothes. And so it's not going to be necessary to increase from 2 to 6 minimum wage levels of this one-time aid. The other thing is that it's actually a small cost, and they probably won't solve these children's issues. But at the same time, at least for those who are alone in the open life of their lives, it will certainly not be too helpful and helpful, at least at first, until they can either find their place in a higher education facility, or they will have to work and find their destiny in businesses. That's why we're going to be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u29	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Then Vladimir Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u30	Thank you. I support a colleague who said that it's not such a technical issue, it's a matter of our state's politics, it's a social issue. Now, before that, we took a question about the dormitories, the return to utility property. In this regard, I appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s profile committee that we need to address the issue of social support for our orphans in a comprehensive manner. Now there are no well - known dormitories left. An orphan, who finishes either a PTU or a higher education facility, practically stays on the street and has no way of surviving it, there is no roof above his head. Let's settle this question! Here is the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s contribution to the matter. We have introduced special scholarships for this category of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But let's do a complex approach to social support for orphans.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u31	Vladimir Kurilo, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u32	Vitaly Kurilo, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u33	Vitaly, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u34	Nothing, nothing. Dear colleagues, the issue of child orphans is a very deep question, and this is a big problem for the whole state. And what we vote today is very helpful, positive. But the main problem for these kids who graduate from school is housing, which they don't have very often. And the second problem is a job or a place to learn. That is why we need to approach this issue in a complex way. Today, I call on our parliamentary group to support the decision, but there is a proposal for the Ministry of Education, Science, and the Minmolodysport to prepare a more fundamental bill related to the social protection of these categories of children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u35	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for giving the floor, because the question that's being discussed is very important to me, because I was raised in a children's home for five years and went to boarding school for 10 years. And the first law we passed in the Supreme Council, along with the intern, is Jury Miroshnichenko, who is now the President's representative in the Supreme Council, it was a law on support, State support for orphans and children deprived of parental care. In fact, the question that we're talking about is a penny, 6,000 bracelets to support orphans are not the kind of money that we should talk about, we should vote for this law. The questions, said the previous reporters, Kurilo, a teacher who knows what children are like working with them, need to be resolved in the complex. The government has to create conditions for orphans not to be thrown out of the house, because today this child is going out of boarding school and no one needs him. She goes either to County, or to the bandits, or somewhere else, so much fate awaits these orphans. And the task of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. If there are no proposals, I will put to the vote the approval of the Ukrainian Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. [[Registration number 10136]] Please vote. [[16:25:58]] For 293 The law is passed. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party – 1871, "BUT – "Fathership" – 2, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 26, communists – 24, People's Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 16. A draft Act amending Chapter XX, Section 5 of the Tax Code on the correction of excise duties is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10379]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:26:44]] For 212 The reporter is Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Sergey Czech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The purpose of the bill is to stabilise prices for motor fuels in a fragmented network for consumers and reduce the impact on Ukraine's socio-economic development, increase oil prices in world markets. The aim is to improve the status of oil products to meet the needs of domestic consumers, including farmers during field work periods. In recent years the world oil market has been characterized by high price dynamics. In March oil prices virtually reached the pre-crisis level of 2008 — $128 per barrel. The instability of the world market has a negative impact on Ukraine’s economy. The unpredicted rise in oil prices creates inflationary pressure on the national economy because it directly affects the cost of production in most sectors. To stabilise prices, the Ukrainian government had already decided in 2011 to temporarily reduce the amount of excise tax on petroleum products in the summer months. This allowed for the stabilization of retail prices and wholesale prices of petroleum products at constant levels during the second half of 2011. The current year has seen a sharp increase in oil prices by 14 percent since the beginning of the year. This has already led to an increase in the cost of petroleum products in the retail network by 4.5 to 5.8 percent since the beginning of the year for the start of April. Applying the corrective amount provided by law to the base taxes on petroleum products will ensure that retail prices are stored at stable levels on motor fuels. In doing so, the excise tax rate will be the world oil price adjuster for Ukrainian consumers. Taking into account the current trend in oil prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u39	Yes, please finish. Read the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u40	Thank you. This can lead to additional revenue because an increase in the rate will be applied, and it will create some necessary reserves for the economy, a possible price increase for the future. In view of the above, I ask the honourable national MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Vladimir Kaplienko, Reforms for the Future Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I don't know why they didn't sign up for this bill. Well, it's kind of simple, but on the other hand, it's not. Well, let's pay attention. Well, of course, it's temporary, of course, it's in such a pretty interesting field. What, though, is it aimed at? So let's ask each other a question. When it comes to the introduction of adjustment coefficients for excise duties on fuel-oil materials and, very little, does not belong to the aviation industry all of this, maybe it's not about stimulating or maintaining the level of prices at the level, you know, normal consumption for the average Ukrainian, or maybe the state in this way: first, it's not inability to regulate prices for fuel-oil materials through the Antimonopoly Committee. Well, that's how it works. And the second question is that, in fact, the state itself is involved in the situation where it will support, let's say, by its efforts, a high level of oil materials. Well, please tell me, everyone, do you remember that 5 bucks cost a liter of 95th gasoline? Where is it? Whether it's 8 bracelets, or 10 bracelets, it's growing rapidly. And today, if the base rate for a barrel is 105, 125 and so on, as prescribed in this law, the state itself actually regulates such a tax or such an excise duty, such a correction factor that stimulates fuel sellers to maintain a single price that is no less than effective today. So in fact, the market has to be regulated in another way: the price went down -- that's why the price went down. So what's the social law then? What does he regulate? The MPs are ready to support this bill, but to clear up in this bill the issues that relate to the State's intervention in this way in this regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u43	Who else insists on this? None. I am voting on the proposal for approval of the Ukrainian Act amending Chapter XX, Subsection 5 of the Code of Taxation on Taxation Adjustment. [[Registration number 10379]] Please vote. [[16:32:40]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Order marking the 90th anniversary of Anatoly Dimarov's birth is under review. [[Registration number 10203]] So the suggestion is: let's think about this in a simplified way. It would be even better if we just accepted this document and welcomed the jeweler. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I know you know Dimarov. And I'm very happy and happy that you know him and love him. But the thing is, we've pushed this draft decision so far, it's just his birthday. Because of this opportunity today, I would like to say a few words from this rostrum of parliament about this, absolutely unique, person of Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian spirituality, Ukrainian word and Ukrainian literature. Anatoly Dimarov is unique, first of all, because today he is the oldest writer in Ukraine. But there are different older writers. There are those who, as it were, only mention the past and so forth. Anatoly Dimarov publishes a new book every year, with such a young, so energetic one, that he is so deeply affected by the most recent problems of today, that it is simply, simply, well, a miracle that this man has kept within himself the youth of the spirit, a fresh view of everything, passed all the front roads from the first day of the war to the last, he was the commander of the guerrilla team. As a result, I am convinced that no one here, in this room, will have any claim against this unique man. However, I would like to remind you that his novels, such as "White Anger," "Idol," "His Family," "The City History," "The Village History," have been cut by censorship on many occasions, and have been thrown out of places where they were mentioned, such as collapses in collectives and so forth. This man endured everything. He is the winner of the National Award for the Ukraine of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. Surprisingly democratic, with colossal humor, behind it, is followed by a series of all kinds of funny stories, games and the like. [[Just no time.]] Because of this, we have such a man, and I think we will have the privilege of voting for what is most important in this decree that I have made, of course, is to publish the writings of this man. Because another way to walk to him, once again, a very talented writer, an honest, decent, noble, Ukrainian really, walk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u45	Do it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u46	I still have a little bit of a committee, I'm finishing up right now. Because I think the most important thing here, of course, is that no one will ever get there on TV and so forth, but of course, to publish it at the expense of the state to help, I think it'll just enrich our culture and it's a matter of our honour. I'm convinced that almost everyone in this room will support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before voting, I would like to delete here: "to recommend the Cabinet of Ministers within a two-week period from the date of adoption of this decree." Just set up an organizational committee, and then follow the text, and here, delete again "in a two-week period after the establishment of an organizational committee" and start simply by approving the plan further along the lines. Taking these details into account, I am voting on the proposal for a Supreme Council of Ukraine decree to mark the 90th anniversary of Anatolia Dimarov's birth, please vote. [[Registration number 10203]] [[16:36:45.]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending articles 36, 127 and 205 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine is under review. [[on matters to which the court is dealing with cases]] [[Registration number 7386]] Suggestion: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:37:27]] For 210 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergius Gordijenko. The narrator is Dmitri Pritica.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u48	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, is proposing to you a draft Ukrainian law amending articles 36, 127, 205 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. [[on matters to which the court is dealing with cases]] He is prepared by a group of national deputies: Gordijenko, Bebelz, and Bondik. The bill was designed in connection with the need to eliminate differences and inconsistencies in the articles of the Code and. the full protection of third parties in the matter of the applicant’s admission or the defendant’s response. There is now no norm in the code where a court would hand over a third party copies of the documents added to the application. Having received only a copy of the application, the third party cannot fully understand the cause and object of the application and what it is based on without the documents added to it. It also needs to be improved by the codex for the parties to the peace treaty. The bill is designed to eliminate these contradictions and disagreements between individual articles. The bill proposes to add the second and third parts of article 36, part two of article 127, and to delete the words "and it is recognized by the court" from part four of article 205. The adoption of this draft law will protect the rights of third parties when they are familiar with the content of the case and its justification for the decision to enter into a case and remove ambiguities in the court’s ruling on the closure of the case when the parties to the peace agreement make the case. I'm asking you to support this bill. I can see what the question is about pre-processing. But when it comes to further work, it is important to make clear that work is needed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u49	Thank you, too. Dmitri Mikitovich Pritika, member of the Justice Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u50	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending articles 36, 127 and 205 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Gordijenkom, Beblaz, Bondik. [[on matters to which the court is dealing with cases]] [[Registration number 7386]] The committee notes this: After considering the changes proposed by the draft law, the Committee notes that they are aimed at eliminating the differences between articles 127 and 120 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, according to which the complainant should add a copy and a copy of all the documents added to it in accordance with the number of defendants and third parties that ensure the rights of third parties to familiarize themselves with the contents of the case. However, it would be logical to supplement article 36 of Ukraine’s Civil Procedure Code with provisions on the order of participation in a third party’s case at the initiative of the court. Since article 35 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code states that third parties who do not claim their own claims may be involved in the case at the initiative of the court. In this context, it is necessary to supplement and amend article 119 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, which regulates the form and content of the invitation application for the appointment of third parties involved in the case. In accordance with article 175 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Ukraine, the court should examine the terms of the Peace Agreement in order to comply with its requirements. The proposed amendments to article 205 invalidate the mandatory order for the award of a peace treaty by the court when the application of a case is closed on the basis of the parties to the agreement that the committee may feel that there may be negative legal consequences for a violation of the rights of freedom or of the interests of others. Taking into account what's been said.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u51	Please complete the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u52	recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending articles 36, 127 and 205 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code to return to the subject-matters of the right to legislative initiative. [[on matters to which the court is dealing with cases]] But given the differences between the authors' position and the committee's decision, please identify yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, people. Grivkowski refuses. Then, dear fellows, I put to the vote my first proposal for acceptance as a basis. If not, then the second proposal to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative will be put to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending articles 36, 127 and 205 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on matters to which the court is dealing with cases]] [[16:43:32]] For-30 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please vote. [[16:43:56]] For-27 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending article 48 of the master procedural code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on fees for judicial expertise]] [[Registration number 7396]] Suggestion: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[16:44:29]] For 216 Decision taken. Yes, the reporter is Victor Schemchuk. I can't see. Dmitry Mikitovich Pritika, please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u54	Honorary colleagues, after reviewing the proposed amendments to the bill, note that the proposed changes relate not only to the cost of forensic expertise and the services of the translator but also to the services of the lawyer. Therefore, the title of the article needs to be added. In addition, when it comes to the costs of an expert translator associated with moving to another locality, housing, and so on, it is likely that the cost of daily work should be foreseen. The Committee also notes that the issue of the distribution of expenses between the parties is regulated by article 49 of the master’s procedural code of Ukraine, which regulates the distribution of household expenses. Implementation of the project's rules on compensation for the State budget of Ukraine for the costs of conducting forensic expertise and involving translators, if assigned by the court. And in the event that both sides are freed from court fees or reduced costs, it is necessary to increase the cost of the State budget to maintain the judicial authorities. Despite the requirements of article 91 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no financial and economic justification or proposal has been given by the author of the bill to reduce budget expenditure. What is indicated in the conclusion of the Budget Committee. According to article 94, part two, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council Rules, the lack of financial and economic justification is one of the reasons for the return of the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Taking into account what has been said, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 48 of the Master's Procedural Code, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shemczuk, to return to the subject of the legislative initiative. [[on fees for judicial expertise]] [[Registration number 7396]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u55	Yes, dear colleagues, who will speak on this matter? Are there no wanters? I'm voting on the proposal for acceptance as the basis of the project. [[Registration number 7396]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:47:17]] For-39 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Be sure to vote. [[16:47:40]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing before the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges on the Improvement of Certain Provisions of the Organization of the Judiciary. [[Registration number 9740]] Suggestion: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[16:48:12]] For 207 Decision taken. The reporter and co-reporter is Dmitri Spenov, i.e. 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u56	The judicial reform in Ukraine is well under way. A very important and significant step was the adoption of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges in July 2010, which contributed to the development of legislative enforcement of the judiciary. Yet the legal process is uninterrupted. In addition to a direct review of the bill, the Committee on Justice receives a large number of appeals and suggestions from citizens, judges, and judicial authorities. They are very important. Because this is from the point of view of those who applied the laws in practice. As national deputies, we study these proposals and discuss them. Some ideas find support and become bills. This bill is the result of this kind of work, so I was interested in supporting the Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich's initiative to work on it. The anticipated changes, we believe, will contribute to the more efficient work of the court. The main ones are the following. To give the court the right not to consider the appeal and the questions that show a manifest contempt for the court. Such actions are administrative offences under the law. Why should the court consider them? After all, there is an established procedure for bringing complaints against judges and court decisions. It is suggested that court decisions that are made immediately are mandatory for execution should be made by general rules. This is the reason for the abuse and refusal of such a decision. While immediate enforcement is allowed, for example, decisions on alimony, wages, disability, death, work renewal in case of illegal release. It is proposed that the head of the court be given the opportunity to specialize in judicial matters and to monitor the judges ’ compliance with procedural and labour disciplines. It is the head of the court that will be able to recognize the need for a specialist in a qualified case as a supervisor and an administrator who is interested in effective court work. For example. In the International Criminal Court, the judges ’ specialization is also determined by the administration of the court. We suggest that we avoid special training to serve as judges for persons who have a minimum of three years in the service of a judge’s assistant. We believe that such individuals already have sufficient experience, such a position will be an incentive for lawyers to go to court and work in positions of assistants who are not currently very popular because of the amount of work and the size of wages. The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority supported the bill. The changes we have proposed take into account the wishes of judges and citizens, are of an organizational nature, do not include opportunities for abuse, and will contribute to improving the process of justice. During his consideration of the bill at the February 8, 2012, committee meeting, he found support for all members of the committee present at the meeting. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u57	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this. Yes, Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u58	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u59	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u60	Thank you, Your Honor Vladimir Georgievich, it is I who address Karpuk. I heard that Mr. Karpuk refused to go to the deputy. If, God forbid, you make this statement, the Supreme Council will lose much. So go. The more in Parliament such as Knazevitch, Karpuk, the more orderly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u61	Let's do it on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u62	..will be in the country. And now on the subject, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the subject. The bill is called "for the improvement of individual regulations." Yeah, he's been tipping me off, he hasn't introduced himself. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The bill is called "to improve the individual provisions of the judiciary." Wrong title for the bill. We don't need to improve the individual positions on the organization of the judiciary, but we need to get the judicial authority that is in the country today to eliminate it at all, because it's an anti-national judicial authority, it works only for the authorities, the President's Administration called, they put July on the line, they called Lucenka, they put Lucenka on the line, they called her tomorrow. That's what we have in court. Is that understood or not? Starting with the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is the highest court in Ukraine, and this Constitutional Court takes decisions that eliminate the benefits of black people, Afghans, war children, other socially-unprotected categories of citizens. I am responsible to state that there is no judicial authority in today’s Ukraine as such. It's not a court of law, it's a court of law, it's a court of law. Show me the judges. Who's the judge? Kyrie’s judge, who put Timoshenko in jail for nothing, or Judge Wolf’s judge, against whom the Attorney General filed a criminal case and he put Juru Lucenka in jail for nothing, or other judges who could do much here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u63	20 seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u64	So exit one: to amend the Law on the Judiciary, the judges must elect the people, the President's Administration, the President's Office, the Supreme Council and all other officials to remove the influence of the judges, and then we will have a truly independent judiciary. Today, we have shame, not judicial authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I must remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today has no effect on the formation and functioning of the judiciary. Today, the Supreme Council has only one mandate: to sanctify those candidates that are being submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I mean in terms of the judiciary. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges to improve the individual provisions of the judiciary. [[Registration number 9740]] Please vote. [[16:55:27]] For 235 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on participation in a video conference session. Suggestion: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:55:58]] For 211 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Valerius Pisarenko, co-reporter, member of the committee. And the reporter and co-reporter will be Dmitri Mikitovich Pritika. Please have four minutes, Dmitri Mikitovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice has considered the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning participation in a video conference. [[Registration number 9753]] The main task of the bill is to improve the operationality of court proceedings and, as a result, to improve the implementation of the right of a person to judicial protection. The project proposes to amend a number of codes to provide for participation in a videoconference session. In accordance with the bill, participation in a videoconference session will take place on the basis of the court's decision on the part of the party to the trial or on his own initiative. In this order, a court hearing in a video conference does not deprive a person of his or her right to come to the courtroom and participate in such a meeting in general order. The project also provides that the use of technical equipment and technology in a court session should be carried out in such a way as to ensure the proper quality of image and sound, to enable the participants to hear and see the proceedings, to ask questions and to receive answers, to exercise other procedural rights and to perform procedural duties. With a view to resolving technical issues related to the holding of video conferences, the project also envisages changes to the Ukrainian Judicial and Judicial Act. The effectiveness of video-conference systems in court proceedings has been proven by the experience of foreign countries, and their conduct will allow citizens to save significant costs of travelling to courts located in other locations. Thus, the adoption of the proposed draft law will result in an increase in the speedy handling of cases by the court, which will contribute to the proper implementation of the individual’s constitutional right to judicial protection. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts concerning participation in a video conference to be considered in the first reading and accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u67	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national deputies, please show. Grivkowski, please. He's refusing. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u68	Dear colleagues! Today we are talking a lot about human rights, a judiciary that should be objective, based on a law that should take into account international standards that are already a reality in many countries of the European Union. We have already taken many steps to bring these standards closer to our practice. In particular, we have put in place the practice of technical means that determine the course of the proceedings. This law proposes to take another step that will allow citizens to participate in court sessions in a way that is convenient, more so than the practice of European countries and the United States says that this, on the one hand, actually shortens the deadlines, because people will not always be able to come to meetings on time, and the courts are being transferred accordingly; and, on the other hand, it saves considerable costs for them to come to other cities of the country, and some even stay abroad. Thus, the law is right, important, necessary. And from those declarations that we're used to making from this rostrum, we need to move on to concrete steps to protect human rights and ensure fair justice. This law ensures such progress. Please support him. And I'm offering to shorten the deadlines for preparation for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u69	Thank you, too. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u70	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable National MPs, good or bad, when might they be looking into video-conference issues? Obviously, it's good. The other question is that before we save something, we have to lose something. Where do we have the calculation, and what do you propose to spend, and how much? There's nothing here. Let's see what happened yesterday. Yesterday, the President of Ukraine announced something in Donetsk that he had signed the Criminal Procedure Code. The criminal procedure code, which was adopted by fraud, seems to have been developed, because the technical legal process was done by this code, and then the papers were changed. It's knowing the truth that even in the sentence, "Penalty, can't be pardoned," a mandatory and important coma. The codex was falsified, the one already voted on a hot Friday. And now we're talking. Adam Ivanovich, don't distract me, I'm responsible for every word. I'm telling you that they have now passed a code, and the President has signed it, which is different from the one voted, and that's what I'm telling Adam Ivanovich, and I'm not telling, I'm not telling the people of Ukraine. So here's the commission, in this law, the government, where it has, on a monthly basis, money to provide at least two halls for each local court, at least four halls for each appeal court and at least five halls for the Supreme Court of Ukraine. It's very good to show where these calculations are and maybe that would go instead of the 18 billion that have gone to the authorities right now. That's why I wouldn't deny it, but now I think it's a raw law to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I also state that the signed and submitted Code of Criminal Procedure for consideration by the President of Ukraine is 100 percent consistent with that document that was adopted at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, everything else is political talk. Please, Vladimir Kaplienko and then Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u72	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's a shame that just one minute, briefly, well, I don't support these previous speakers that this bill can't be adopted, I don't support on behalf of a group of those that have to be added to the financial account here. It's about running political will in every court that has the right to either side to hold a video conference. And is that bad? I support Yuri Miroshnichenko, that's very good, and this is the experience of all the states that have moved forward in the world of what needs to be done. However, there is only one question: This bill provides for the possibility of video recording, but it does not provide for the obligation to do so. I'd like to remind you that the experience of the Russian Federation, when a large array of information in the video regime was collected from all over the country during the election, allows you to record through the IP protocols without any extra cost. Then let us enter the obligation to record, but then let us give you the right to use it or not to use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u73	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u74	Yulia Timoshenko, Vladimir Yavorowski. The wise man said that the best halo is on the horns of the devil. Exactly the same, from my point of view, looks like this bill. Has anyone actually figured out what this testimony will look like in the form of a video conference? What will the witness do? Can you imagine what it would mean to organize, say, where else in Plain or somewhere else in Lviv, or to arrange for the witness to be able to give his testimony through a video channel? I think it's going to be a lot more expensive than what my colleague here said, that it's very expensive if a witness comes. That's the first one. I'm sure it's certainly a progressive sort of method, but actually to implement it in our conditions in our poverty today in the courts, I don't think it's possible. And then, I'm convinced, this bill is passed for one -- to put a camera in the House of Yulia Timoshenko and continue this disgraceful court.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office recommends that the bill be returned to work. In accordance with the Rules, a motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning participation in a video conference. [[Registration number 9753]] Please vote. [[17:07:16]] For 241 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts repealing the obligation to grant paper extracts from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs is under consideration. Suggestion: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:07:49]] For 213 Decision taken. The reporter is Alexy Logwinenko. The correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Xena Lapin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to abolish the mandatory granting of paper extracts from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs. [[Number 9442]] The bill, which is proposed, contributes to reducing administrative pressure on business, allowing for a substantial preservation of time and money for taxpayers. What is specifically proposed in the bill? First. Cancel the obligation to provide paper extracts from the Single Register The other one. Replace the paper form from the register to the electronic. Third. Eliminate the institution of duplicate documents. Four. Enter only one original installation document to be stored in a government registry, so it will never be lost. The need to bring another piece of paper to another clerk makes it very difficult for entrepreneurs to live, kills time and money, and records quickly become obsolete, and they need to be asked again by officials. Sometimes it comes to absurdity: A legal person who is being eliminated, who has lost the original registration, must receive a duplicate to then turn it in again. I want to remind everyone that the site of the Single State Register exists, and entrepreneurs are still sinking in papers. In fact, the state has drifted away from its citizens, who have long since switched to electronic documents, the Internet technology of the 21st century. There is an urgent need to change legislation towards the introduction of electronic circulation documents if we really want to move towards the standards of civilized countries. And digital technologies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u77	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u78	I'm done then, the bill doesn't need any extra public budget expenditure. Thank you. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u79	Thank you, too. Please, Kseniya Mikhailna, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u80	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, as early as 15 November 2011, has considered this bill amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to abolish the mandatory granting of paper extracts from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs. At our meeting, we pointed out that the purpose of the bill, namely, to cancel the obligation to provide paper extracts from the Single State Register, was very important, that this was not the first attempt to lead to the logical outcome of the Supreme Council’s move to cancel state registration certificates. Because by cancelling our testimony, we have left in many laws, however, a requirement to give paper extracts from the State Register, which now leads to entrepreneurs spending both money and, in the first place, time, that there is money. However, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has commented on some of the other aspects of this bill. And there are such fears. In fact, good intentions can be used to send the way to hell. So for example, replacing any state registration action in paper form that is currently taking place, or providing any information from the State Register in paper form with a mandatory electronic form can result in the effect that the tax requirement for everyone at the same time has led to an electronic document process. As a result, the small business simply suffered. So you have to take steps to get to the electronic circuit, but so far, without cancelling the possibility that if the subjects want to do it, they do it in paper form. The second point that the scientific expert is paying attention to is the committee's attention. The moment to replace the issue with the legal person of the originals.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u81	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u82	The originals to the installation documents, the installation documents. This, on the one hand, can lead to a deterioration in the recorder situation. Because this could lead to the fact that it would be impossible to understand the property system at all. Because there are no duplicates and no copies are accepted in court if this is not done properly, it is not verified. In fact, there is no need to make improvements. We are in favor of adopting it as a basis and correcting the relevant articles for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this statement. Please, Gennady Bully, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u84	MP's Reform for the Future, Gennady Zadirko, Mikolayevščina. Our parliamentary group will support this bill, considering that today is actually very and very difficult for entrepreneurs. And it's really necessary to simplify the system. The project cancels the obligation to provide paper extracts from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Business Persons. It also provides for the abolition of the institution of duplicate documents and the replacement of the publication of information from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs in paper form by electronic means. In our view, these are positive things. And in fact, the project proposes that legal persons withdraw a statement or extract from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs in the issuance of licences, permits, certificates or the execution of a State registration as a subject of a particular activity. What makes life easier for a business entity? To be honest, a lot of national MPs have already started working in future majority districts today, and I think that their meetings with entrepreneurs clearly say that, not in words today, but in fact, it is still necessary to simplify the work of small and medium-sized businesses in some way. So our parliamentary group is calling for the House to support this bill, and there are some inadequacies, but I fully support Mrs. Xenia Leapina, that this bill can be improved and made better for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u85	National Deputy Soloshenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, first of all, attention should be paid to the fact that the title of the bill does not correspond to its contents, since it refers not only to the abolition of the mandatory submission of paper extracts from the Single State Register of Legal and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs, but also to the modification of the procedure for the provision of information to members of civil relations from the Single State Register, the replacement of duplicates of the original constituent documents by copies of them. The draft law proposes that the publication of information contained in the Single State Register and in the specialized printed media should be waived by replacing such publication with the posting of relevant communications on the website of the special authority responsible for State registration. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is premature to refuse to publish the information of the Single State Register in paper form, given the inadequacy of the availability of Internet services in Ukraine. In general, there are no more than 15 million Ukrainian citizens who have access to the Internet in the assessment of various sources. As a result of the study of the International Centre for Forward-looking Studies, the conditions for access to the Internet vary greatly across the regions of Ukraine. Also according to the draft communication, within a period of at least 3 months, they should be available to all those who wish to know. It is not clear how the relevant information can be consulted after the end of that period if the publication in print is cancelled. The adoption of this bill will not lead to a significant reduction in the costs of economic operators, as the fee for issuing a copy of the constituent documents is equal to the cost of issuing the original of the documents and the cost of publishing the communication is the cost of electronic posting. Thus, the replacement of the issuance of a duplicate of the original constituent documents with copies certified by the registrar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u87	Microphone, please. Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u88	Thus, the replacement by the registrar in itself would not be positive and would appear to be a change on the advice of the changes themselves. In the light of the above, I propose that the bill be repealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill should be returned to pre-work. The committee believes that it can be taken as a basis. The proposal is based on a legislative proposal, i.e. a committee, to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to abolish the mandatory provision of paper extracts from the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Entrepreneurs. Please vote. [[17:18:48]] For-28 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[17:19:13]] For 20 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 1, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 13, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[about the presence of a child in social and entertainment facilities during the night]] [[Registration number 8750]] I would like to vote on the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:20:02]] For 219 Decision taken. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Andry Pinchuk. The focal point is the head of Catherine Lukyanov’s subcommittee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u90	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! All of us are concerned about the proper physical and moral development of our children. Regrettably, many of them are enjoying leisure in places that are not conducive to cultural and intellectual development — nightclubs, pubs, bars, computer clubs, billiard clubs, Internet cafes, and so forth. The situation is when a child spends nights in such entertainment facilities, rather than getting the necessary standard of daily sleep, endangers his physical development and health. However, an even greater danger for children is that being in such institutions at night greatly increases the likelihood that they will become victims of crime. This is especially true in the case of the sale of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and sometimes even narcotics and psychotropic substances to children. The bill proposes to prohibit children under the age of 16 from 22 hours to 6 p.m. to stay in institutions that operate in the entertainment and social food establishments if they are not accompanied by at least one parent or another legal representative. Owners and officials of entertainment establishments and public catering establishments will be given the right to request documents from visitors that confirm their achievement at the age of 16. If the laws of such owners and officials are ignored, administrative responsibility will lie ahead. If the bill is adopted, it should be expected to reduce the prevalence of harmful habits among minors, reduce the incidence of their antisocial behaviour. And I would like to say that this is really in many countries in Europe, where, in order to get into a nightclub, into a bar, another establishment, you have to present an ID like our passport. So in principle, I think it's a normal, progressive norm that's just going to be positive and there's no negative here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u91	Thank you. From the Committee of Catherine Lukyanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u92	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that the problem of raising and protecting an adult generation will never lose its meaning and relevance, because children are guaranteed. the preservation, development, health, and future loving nation and state. It may be worth recalling that despite a slight decline in serious crimes committed by minors in recent years, the total number of crimes and offences committed by teenagers is still on the rise. And they usually happen in the evening and nighttime. And not the last place in this process are the various entertainment establishments, which are often densely populated by our fellow citizens, but simply our children. Based solely on the need to limit the negative impact on children’s health and development and to prevent child abuse and to increase parental responsibility, in the last two years a number of local authorities at the district, local, and district levels have decided to restrict children’s presence in the streets and in entertainment facilities in the evening and night. And in some ways, these decisions have had a positive impact on the criminogenic situation in the child’s environment at appropriate locations. Clearly, this issue takes on national significance and requires legislative regulation. So the committee at its meeting, even taking into account the comments made by the Committee on Law Enforcement, the Scientific and Experimental Administration, has decided to support the bill and recommend it to you, honourable colleagues, to accept it as a basis. As we prepare for the second reading, we hope that you will be able to draw up an effective legislative document. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand? Shall we vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[about the presence of a child in social and entertainment facilities during the night]] [[Registration number 8750]] Please vote. [[17:24:34]] For 266 Thank you. Decision taken. We are considering: a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights and interests of children in care or care and strengthening the material support of families in which such children are raised. [[Registration number 9197]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:25:09]] For 223 Offer supported. Kovalevska Julia reports. The narrator is Lukyanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! The law proposes to determine the size of State social assistance for low-income families with children, which is assigned under the laws of Ukraine on State social assistance for low-income families and on State aid for families with children, not to take into account the assistance of children with care or care for the total income of families. The bill is aimed at strengthening the state support of families who have taken care of or cared for orphans or children deprived of parental care. Its acceptance will provide financial support for families who want to raise their children. And not just your own, but your orphans. Sadly, the problem of fatherhood in our country does not go away. It is largely caused by the crisis of family relationships, a large number of disadvantaged families, a weakening of the upbringing of the family, and so forth. At present, according to current legislation, the average monthly total income of the family is taken into account for the assistance given to persons when caring for or caring for such a child. Thus, this family can receive income higher than the subsistence minimum and then this family has no right to benefit from the assistance provided by the Ukrainian laws on State aid to families with children and State social assistance to low-income families. Of course, the parents who have been denied such assistance will have to spend on their children and on the children they care about. At the same time, I would like to point out that taking this initiative will not only address the issue of support, social support for such families, but will also increase the efficiency of budget use, because in order to raise and support an orphan child or a child deprived of parental care, the state spends between 5,000 and 7,000 dollars per month on the Internet, almost three times as much as the state pays the guardians. I want to emphasize that I am convinced that children should.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u95	Or should we conclude that children should listen to their parents? Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u96	Thank you. I am convinced that children should be raised in a family. And if there is a family that wants to raise an orphan child, we need to take all possible measures to support them. So, dear colleagues, I propose to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u97	Thank you, Julia Sergiyevna. Please, Catherine Lukyanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee at its meeting on 7 December 2011 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Protection of the Rights and Interests of Children in Care or Care and the Strengthening of Material Support for Families Raised by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kovalevska. [[Registration number 9197]] The bill is proposed by amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children and article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Provided Families, when calculating the average monthly total income, do not take into account assistance for children who are cared for or cared for. The Committee on Legal Policy concluded that the draft law was in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill is based on the support of committees: human rights, national minorities and inter-national relations, and social policy and work. The Committee on Budget Issues concluded that the implementation of the bill would result in additional expenditures from the State budget of Ukraine. Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance estimates that more than 500 million dollars will be spent in 2012 to implement the legislative proposal. But contrary to the requirements of part three of article 91 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 27 of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, the subject of the legislative initiative has not been provided with financial and economic justification for the bill. The main scientific and expert office supported the adoption of the bill as a basis, but noted that an expert conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine would be needed to take an informed decision on the bill. The committee addressed the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and received the following expert conclusions: The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine does not support the adoption of the bill, based on the lack of real financial resources of the State for its implementation. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine have expressed their position on the impossibility of adopting the bill. But the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights and interests of children under guardianship or care.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u99	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u100	and the strengthening of the material support of the families in which such children are brought up by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kovalevska, to be accepted as a basis. [[Registration number 9197]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand? Yes, anyone who wants to have a discussion, please sign in. Please, Samuel, Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the respected authors of the bill, of course the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine throughout the entire chamber has supported laws that have social ones. Social orientation. I'm impressed by one thing, we're going to vote now, we're going to support, we're going to make, and we're going to make adjustments to our second reading, because I wouldn't share, for example, that it doesn't take into account the income that's given to children by families that have care and care for them, and the children that we have in many children where parents are raising them conscientiously. But they will take this into account, this help of our nation. We should not be dividing ourselves into such children, we should consider, perhaps someone disagreed, but, in fact, such a decision should be made not only for those children who are cared for and cared for, and this should apply to all families where a large family is particularly involved. And I'd like to make another suggestion. Maybe it's hard for us to move away from these, you know, fragmented drafts. But anyway, if we need to make changes to the law, for example, we need to make them comprehensively. I'm looking, we're going to rip one off, we're going to rip the other off, something else, a question. Let's still have a complex to solve, especially with regard to social protection. The Communist Party faction will support and actively join the amendment to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u103	Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u104	Our Committee on Social Policy and Labour unanimously supported the bill for very simple reasons. First. From an economic point of view, the cost of these children would be significantly lower than those incurred in public institutions. Second. The child receives family, parents, sisters, and brothers. And in terms of the child’s self-esteem, in terms of education and in terms of growth and physical, moral, spiritual, and mental well-being. And third. Families that are common to orphans are many children. Today, many families belong to poor families. And the money that will be sent to this family will strengthen their financial situation, improve the lives of the family as a whole, including those of the children who will be admitted to these families. That's why I think we need to support him. Of course, there are some comments that have been made, including on our committee. The second reading could be finalized and adopted by a normal and good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u105	Oleg Zarubinski, please. He's behind him, Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u106	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Valery Vasilovich Ramez.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u107	Please, Ramez.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u108	Vice-Deputy of Ukraine Ramez Valérie, People’s Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, the faction of the People's Party supports the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u109	Yes, Knyazevich, please. He won't say a word, but Easy does.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u110	Please hand over the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u111	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The government refuses to support a bill to strengthen the material support of families with children under care or care. What is the reason for refusing to support this bill? I said there's no money in the state budget. The price of this bill is 200 million dollars. So to support the families that adopted the orphans who took those children from the children's homes, there are no boarding schools in the government, where the president lives, where Azarov lives, where the ministers live, there are MPs, there are 150 million dollars in the government budget this year. There's no money for orphans! And 450 million dollars for the treatment of officials in the government clinic of Feofania -- that's what the money is for. There is no money for orphans and families who care for these orphans. And 120 million dollars at the State Administration Sanatorium, and the Supreme Council's money is for that. For families that care for orphans, there is no money, and for Azarov to pay 20,000 pensions, there is money in the budget. So what I'm asking is, your honorary colleagues, the regional MPs and others who are joining the coalition with this power, what country are you building? Who are you building this country for? Before the election, to whom did you promise to build a country for which people? For Azarov, for Yanukovich, for Tihypek, for whom do you build this country? For Yourself? Or for those families that took 10 children so that they wouldn't be in kindergartens and boarding schools. And taking this opportunity, I'm talking to the governor of the Kirovograd district in the village of Popelnost, Cuibida, the man, Alexander is raising seven. [[Alexandri Region Kirovogradska oblast]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u112	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u113	raises seven foster children. They have 8 hectares of pie, they have nothing to do with this pie to plant and harvest and feed these children. I'm asking the authorities, help me out there with two thousand bracelets on the tannery, or three to process this pie so that these seven kids don't walk barefoot, hungry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u114	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the first reading, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of the rights and interests of children in care or care and strengthening the material support of families in which such children are raised. [[Registration number 9197]] Please vote. [[17:38:18]] For 262 Supported. The factions, please. Regional Party – 163, BUT -0, Our Ukraine – 24, Communists – 24, People's Party – 20, Reforms – 19, non-fractional – 12. We are considering: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the employer’s material liability to the employee for breaking the pay and other remuneration due to the employee]] [[Registration number 9223]] There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please be supportive. [[17:39:08]] For 214 Supported. Report to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Maruschenko Vladimir Stanislavovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u115	Maruszczenko Volodymir, faction "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense", Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Honorable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, is proposed to establish a 1 - percent obligation on employers to pay one percent of the amount owed each day. Dear colleagues! We have probably heard on several occasions in this room that each year there are billions of sums of debt on wages. For example, on March 1, this year, about a billion 70 million debt. And more than 500 million debt has economically active enterprises. And from year to year, this problem stands, and it's not solved. Responsible for delaying wages, criminal and administrative. And it only comes in when this debt is more than a month. But it has existed for years, but the problem is not solved. So it seems to us that it is necessary to include the economic significance of the impact on the employer. Why do we propose to install 1 percent of the amount of debt each day? Because if wages are delayed, it means that an employer takes an interest-free loan from an employee and uses these costs for production purposes. Yet we need to understand that the worker does not engage in entrepreneurial activities. And he doesn't have any other income except that he gets a salary. It would be clear that the employer is partially transferring responsibility for entrepreneurship to his employee. If an employee had the right to take part in the management of an enterprise, if he were to take part in the distribution of profits, there would be other methods to guarantee that he would pay his wages at the proper time. But there are no such methods. To date, valid legislation has established only a standard that obliges employers to pay their employer money.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u116	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u117	Only when the debt is one month. Thus, the amount of compensation in such cases is calculated only within the inflation index during the period of non-payment of wages. Please tell me, if even one month's salary is not paid and the employee has bank loans, he pays for schooling, he has to support the family somehow, why should he do it? So we're proposing to include the economic importance of the impact on the employer and to install the penalty for delaying wages from the first day of the delay. I ask you to support this bill. And the position of the committee. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The Ministry of Social Policy believes that the bill does not require introduction. This rule is legally sound and does not need to be amended. The Ministry of Economics does not support it. The Ministry of Justice made a number of remarks to the bill. Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance believes that it is not appropriate to adopt the bill. The Ukrainian State Agency for the Administration of State Corporate Rights and Property supports the need for more stringent measures to be taken by managers of all levels that allow debt to be created, but it believes that this is not timely, it needs to be done a little later. The joint representative body of the All - Ukrainian Trade and Trade Unions, the National Confederation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, the National Forum of Trade Unions of Ukraine, supports the bill. The joint representative body of employers at national level does not support the bill. And the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration is also proposing to accept as a basis. In view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Work proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u118	Thank you. Yes, anyone who wants to discuss it, write it down with your cards. Because I won't give that word to someone who will write it down with someone else's card. By the Rules and by the Constitution. Grivkowski? Don't insist. Gordine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pass the word to Catherine Semenovni Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u120	Please, Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u121	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is indeed in favour of more stringent measures for timely payment of wages. The only thing I can't agree with the drafter is that it'll be more like this, you know, for him personally, well, punishment is foam. It seems to me that criminal responsibility must be imposed for the untimely payment of salary. And you said that you have to live somehow, pay for housing services, pay for children's education, and you can treat them, and you can do a further list of what you have to do for your salary. And finally, we know that we don't have to pay wages that are powerful today, or that we don't have businesses, for example, CBC***, and still haven't paid people their wages, and we don't have them on the Pension Fund. For example, the oil-processing Herson factory, for example, the Beauty factory, and I could count a lot. I understood the association, the decision of the Employers' Association, but if their aim is to protect the employer, not to protect the person who goes and gives up his hands, his labour force, and works in the sweat of the face, then I want to say that we don't need such employers, because we have to follow the Constitution of Ukraine and the person who earns money should get it. We support and suggest that the second reading be foresaw.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u122	Please, Fedun. Don't you insist? Then Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u123	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the drafters of the bill, in particular the report, Mr. Maruschenk, for taking the root of this problem. What's going on? In fact, people lend loans to billionaires. These cases that we're talking about right now are requiring people to increase their wealth, including those of the "employees" who today represent our country both with the President and already in Europe, like Mr. Firtash. That's what we need to do. The 9 numbers in the village of Vreszno under Kiev were buried and the remains of 20 soldiers were installed, who died 70 years ago. A teacher from Fastov comes up to me and says, "Tell me, please, how can we live, and do you know, MPs, does our government, Azarov, know that we have Yanukovich, who, teachers, paid us nothing for the month of April: neither advance nor salary? They promised by May 1st, then May 9th, today May 9th, they didn't pay anything." So I think Mr. Azarov and Mr. Yanukovic will hear what is happening. And right, Mr. Lazko, you will also hear, or, you know, you should not engage in populism but defend people's interests. So I think, at the same time as paying a penny a day's delay to a worker, starting the next day after the end of the set time, that's just a little bit more than you've written down. You have to set up a bigger one because you have to take credit and so on. And the loans, you know, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u124	Please, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u125	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you know, of course, no one is asking the question that this bill is supposed to be necessary. Although we would like to point out that he is of a purely declarative nature. Yes, the MPs support the first reading, we'll give our 19 votes, but I'd like to pay attention to the following. First. 92 percent of Ukrainians are mercenaries. So this bill is designed to protect most Ukrainians. The second question. But there are some disagreements. This is what to do with, for example, those government officials who today, in accordance with the current Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, only have 9 months of security. Who Answers, State or Who? Next question. What can we do about the issue if some careless workers do not take their work books and wait a year and a half to apply for a business? There's still a lot of questions like that, because I have one minute, I'm done. We support it, but we need to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u126	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u127	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I have 1 minute. Because, before what my colleagues said, I'd like to add this. Today, of course, the most important model in Ukraine is not even life but survival. I'd like to remind you that the early payment, the delay in pay today for our citizens, is one chain that is followed by enormous damage. Because if a person has nothing to pay, let's say a utility, he's already on the counter and he's on the wrong side of the money. If a person can't pay, let's say, his interest is on credit there, then there's a lot of colossal damage again. Because of this, I think the Yulia Timoshenko Block thinks it's a very important bill. Someone says he's populist. For God's sake, make it better if you have the option, but this bill needs to be adopted. And Marouschenko is very good at all that he covered the issue without fear of being called a populism or anything like that. The law is needed and people are needed, the Ukrainian common people will support it, and they need it very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u128	What about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u129	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for finally starting to interest you in my opinion. I'll put it this way. As of today, debt on wages totalling 1.5 billion dollars in Ukraine. Nearly a million families are not paid on time. As a result, people do not have the capacity to pay for a social network, to buy medicine, to raise or feed their children. And that's why the problem needs to be solved, but not only with fines, because from the fact that we're going to impose fines, the already anticipated responsibility for not paying wages is not being paid. In particular, doctors and teachers don't get paid in Priluki, on Bilcozin, on wages, on sewing factories, on hundreds of businesses all over the country. Therefore, I have an offer to supplement this bill with the following rule: to deprive the salaries of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputies of Ukraine, and not pay them their wages until they pay the last court their due salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u130	I would like to propose a proposal to adopt in the first reading a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the employer’s material liability to the employee for breaking pay periods and other payments due to the employee]] [[Registration number 9223]] Please vote. [[17:52:39]] For-52 The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 1, BUT 2, Our Ukraine is 7, the Communists are 24, the People's Party has not voted, "Reforms." -16, non-fractional -2. The bill was unfortunately rejected. We are considering a bill amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. [[on the increase in the import duty on polyvinyl chloride not mixed with other substances]] [[Registration numbers 9241, 9241-d]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:53:31]] For 212 Supported. Please, Chef Igor Teodorovich. Where's Zvaric? There's neither. Hometic Vitaly, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy considered several bills relating to amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. We decided to unite those initiatives, which were parliamentary and passed as bills and went on. We set up a working group that included representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development, the Minfin, the State Service, and looked at all our commitments between Ukraine and the World Trade Organization. And they developed a harmonized bill that actually sets new rates at 2 and a half thousand different positions. That's 23.3 percent of the total number of bets. So when we joined the World Trade Organization, there were some conditions, and actually then we gave up a lot of positions that are even being produced in Ukraine. Thus, a sufficient domestic manufacturer was not protected. Today we conducted this analysis, and we suggested that these bets be increased to the level permitted by the World Trade Organization. In general, this will give us two positions. First, it will protect the national producer from those or other positions that are being produced in our country; and secondly, it will provide additional resources to the State budget. Our estimate is about 2 billion dollars. I don't rule out that when we work on second reading, we can look at those or other positions that are not produced in Ukraine, and already in the working order, by way of discussion with the government, we can come to some compromises in certain positions. But for today, this project is presented under registration number 92.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u132	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u133	9241. [[completed]] So the committee proposes to accept this particular editorial, committee editing, based on the creation of a working group immediately, and within two or three weeks to work out all tariff positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u134	Thank you. Shall we vote? Dear colleagues, sign up. Fedun doesn't insist. Grivkowski is the same. Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, Bill 9241. Today, a statement from the parliamentary rostrum was made by the MP's reform group for the future that this bill, well, seems a little short-handed. It is not clear why the introduction of these nine additional sanctions under the nine basic codes of the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity makes us want to fill the state treasury. Well, I don't understand why it's, for example, plastics, polymer materials and products, chemical products, machines, equipment, mechanical devices, machine electrons, organic products, inorganic chemicals, dyes, pigments, well, if this list is fully published, you'll find among them a full confirmation that this will lead to an increase in all prices of produce produced in Ukraine without any restrictions and whether it will be 10, 20, 30, 40 percent, no one can say anymore. Because the business response is going to be clear -- it's going to reduce its production, it's going to go out in the shadows, and it's going to do everything to avoid further pressure from the state on that direction. Well, why do that? So what we're talking about today is that if we're looking for money for social reform, let's look elsewhere, it's real profits for gas mining, oil mining, metals, metal concentration, and so on, in terms of order at the customs border, the introduction of the system, the progressive tax system, all of that can be done. Why so? It's against Ukraine, so we're proposing that this bill be sent to work on both the first and the second, to work on it with a working group, and then we're going to introduce a normal bill that will only protect a domestic producer, and if there is production in Ukraine, then we can raise excise duties. We're going to protect it that way, but if it's not there, it's left with zero tax, well, that's right, it's a world practice. We made our proposal, the group will not support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Dear colleagues, we have 20 more bills. Unfortunately, I can see that there are experts in the room with all kinds of questions. I'd like the experts to speak. That's what's wrong with us. And we have experts on all the issues. You know what I mean. So let's vote. I'll give you later, I'll give you later. Dear colleagues, there are two bills here. The author approached me. He says that he agrees with the fact that, in fact, the committee has worked out his ideas and that it is worth keeping up the work. And what we don't need to do about the commission is we don't need a working group, we don't need to create this working group with a parliamentary decision, it's all about knowing the committee -- creating working groups. I'll put it to a vote. Then in view of the fact that Chef Igor Theodorovitch is asking not to vote in favour of his bill, he agrees with the draft, and I'm voting only on Bill 9241-d, amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act on Ukraine in the first reading. [[on bringing import duty rates to WTO criteria]] Please vote. [[18:00:39]] For 230 Copy that. We're talking about the draft decree on the 125th anniversary of the establishment of the Ascania-Nova Dendrological Park. [[Registration number 10261]] Can we vote? I'm voting on the decree to mark the 125th anniversary of the establishment of the Ascania-Nova Dendrological Park. [[Registration number 10261]] The author of Samuelka's Bill, Catherine Seminovna. Take down the vote. Catherine Seed, on the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u137	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, because I wanted to address you. The bill was drafted in March months, but because of the long-term blockade, we were unable to adopt the bill, and so I would ask, right now, those dates, the terms proposed in the decision, should be brought into line. And in view of the fact that this is no longer the case, and the next Saturday, the celebration will take place not only at the national level but also at the invitation of international guests, I would ask very much if the decree could be signed. Adama Ivanovich would ask you, 125 years is an oasis in the Tavrian Stepe at the end of the 19th century, a monument to the garden and park art. And that's why. It's a constant experiment. He was visited by many millions of our visitors. We also know with you and are aware that he is entering the five best and most large dendro parks of our country with you. We know that the biosphere reserve works under the auspices of UNESCO. And today's vote, and my request for the signing of the decree, perhaps urgently, would excuse me for a possible incorrect statement, it would only strengthen the role of the biosphere reserve and the dendropark, and the role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine would necessarily be the same. I'd like you all to support this decision and celebrate, I'd like to say at the international level this date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u138	Head of the Yavorowski Committee
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u139	Dear colleagues! Of course, Ukraine has an amazingly simple pearl, which is unlikely to have our closest neighbors, where the metals are preserved, where the Scythian grandmothers are preserved, and so on, indeed, a unique pearl. I have to tell you, I've just been on our live radio "Rady" and I've been talking to the director of "Ascania-Nova" Mr. Victor. I have to tell you, they understand that we're a little late with all this, and they, Mrs. Catherine, are going to have this celebration. He said that they would find some funds there to celebrate this celebration with the team. But we have to vote today. And most of all, what they asked for. There's been a paradox. The Jubilee Jubilee. But the money that comes from their budget to help them, it turns out, they're all going to pay off the water to make this flood go away. And they're asking, if you can, give me a little bit, to amend the laws to get rid of these people's water payments. Second, they say, help me to obtain at least a few computers. Because, Mrs. Catherine, I am convinced that this bill should be adopted immediately. We will make sure that we prepare, apparently, an addition to the loss of their salaries, this tremendous payment for water supplies. And then we'll do a very good thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u140	Dear colleagues! Computers and any MP can give away. That's a small price. That's one thing. The other one. There are few institutions that are funded by a single line of government budget. And Askania Nova is funded. So let's get a little further to the election. I'm voting on the decree to mark the 125th anniversary of the establishment of the Ascania-Nova Dendrological Park. [[Registration number 10261]] Please vote. [[18:05:53]] For 273 It's an order. The draft Order marking the 75th anniversary of the great Ukrainian poet, the politician, the hero of Ukraine Vasil Stus, is a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 10311]] Sadly, they are willing to speak. [[18:06:23]] For 208 The author and the co-reporter do not insist on the presentation? They insist. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u141	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian platform Sobor, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, I think we are all witnesses to how difficult it is for Ukraine to take its transformation path from population society to civil society. Clearly, the birth of a nation that eventually happens in our country is an unforgivable process. Our task is obviously to stimulate these processes. These processes can only stimulate real names, a powerful example of serving that State. And if we understand that, we obviously have to raise these famous names to an appropriate height today, not for the sake of those who have done the feat, but for those who are children today, and who obviously have to follow the example of such people, of real citizens, of real Ukrainians. Such a Ukrainian is Basil Stus, born in Winnitz, raised in Donetsk. Man. Which has been a tragic road for Ukraine, and finally, for what we do with you, we try to build it. January 6 is 75 years old. I, on behalf of both the daughters, and the public organizations, and the vineyards, and the kyans, have made this draft decision for your consideration and would like to support it, so that we can prepare ourselves properly for this Jubilee. Above all, this is an example of rearing our youthful change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u142	Thank you. Please, Javorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u143	Dear colleagues, I did not go up to this rostrum to acquiesce you. I'm sure we all have souls, we have intelligence, we know the price of this man's feat. But with this opportunity today, why don't you just take a few minutes to get to the people who listen to us to talk about Basil Stus? First verse. "Silverly gleaned another Ukrainian Circumstances. It only lengthens the shadows, And it's getting shorter. The night of Barbara's war, The sun goes after Christmas, and the punishment of Over the next hill. We've got Waterways. O, Yertis, Enisseus, but it does not shine in the eyes, The darkness doesn't come from the eyes. Dogs, screamers, And I'm getting to you. Play music, play music, play music, play music, For the Columbo rubble." The poem is written in a cell. I just wanted to add, the cause of death recently came to light, there were different versions of Basil, that he was incarcerated and meant there, well, literally led to total exhaustion. Today there's a version, I wanted people to know that in the same prison where he was, there were bumps like these shelves in the wagons and there were so sharp brushes. And when, for example, the prisoner got up early, they started and he fell to the ground and woke up. So it became known that those who were there, who were sitting with him, what was done so that, in fact, he was impaled on this top, that it was a total ultimate crime. I would like to remind you that the body of Vasil Stus, because of the independence of Ukraine, was transferred to the Fairy Cemetery along with his friends, colleagues who died in this concentration camp. It was an incredibly purposeful man. He actually made his first presentation of "The Shadows of Forgotten Ancestors," which was a great movie by Paradjanova, here in Kiev, and he and John Juba, a few other people, the same one, were protesting against imprisonment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u144	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'm sorry, I understand that you can talk about these people for a while, I understand that. But we have the Rules and they're all the same. Shall we vote? I put to the vote the Order on the 75th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian poet, a politician, the Hero of Ukraine Vasil Stus. [[Registration number 10311]] [[18:11:04]] For 245 It's been decided. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 171, "BUT" – 2, "Our Ukraine" – 19, the Communists – did not vote, the People's Party – 20, "Reforms" – 19, non-fractional – 14. Rereading the first reading. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Red Book Act. [[on increasing the protection of rare species of animals and plants]] [[Registration number 6472]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[18:11:49]] For 221 Offer supported. Please, Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u145	Adam Ivanovich has already said this is a rereading of the first reading. I've already reported this bill. I'm just going to say that while we were working on it, according to those comments that were on the first reading, the Russian Federation had accepted many countries of Europe and America. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, will we? We'll support it. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Red Book Act. [[on increasing the protection of rare species of animals and plants]] [[Registration number 6472]] Please vote. [[18:12:58]] For 259. The decision is made in the first reading. We listen to the question: the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for Reforming and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2009-2014. [[on the inclusion of a separate action "Capital repair, modernization and replacement of elevator equipment"]] [[Registration number 9457]] Suggestion: Consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[18:13:38]] For 215 Supported. Please, Valery Baranov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on the National Programme for the Reform of Housing and Utilities for 2009-2014. As the authors of this bill, we propose to complete the programme with a separate action: capital repair, modernization and replacement of elevator equipment. You know, you and I took this program, but she didn't have one. And the elevator industry of our country has already come to a complete standstill, and this is a very important problem. I'll give you the numbers. On January 1, last year, 92,000 elevators were registered in the homes of the Housing Fund, 45 percent of them being used for more than 25 years. Controls stop them and stop their work, but they work because somehow people need to get up. We need a capital repair of 12.5 thousand elevators, a modernization of 12.8 thousand and a replacement of 6,000 elevators. The financing of capital-repair measures is known to be made at the expense of the state budget under our Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities. The actual costs of the restoration of the elevator economy at the expense of the state budget amounted to only 1.5 percent in those years of need. In our opinion, the best way to ensure that these jobs are properly financed is to allocate them to a separate effort by complementing our program "Capital repair, modernization and replacement of elevator equipment." It is important to determine that the implementation of this bill requires substantial funds from the State budget. It's estimated that the projected amount of government spending is almost three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u148	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u149	Almost 5.7 billion dollars, and the entire program we took with you is another 7 billion dollars, which is a very big need and a very big task. And I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u150	Thank you. Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing and Regional Policy, Mr. Mikola Ivanovich. Who wants a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, at its meeting on 8 February this year, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2009-2014. [[on the inclusion of a separate action "Capital repair, modernization and replacement of elevator equipment"]] It is important to note the relevance of the issues proposed in the bill, such as the objective of the project, the improvement of the situation in the elevator industry and the creation of safe conditions for its operation. The bill proposes to separate capital repairs, modernization and replacement of elevator equipment, the State-wide Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2009-2014. The main scientific and expert office concludes that the implementation of the bill requires substantial additional funding from the State Budget and that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be duly concluded. The Ukrainian Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing supports the bill. The Committee on Budget Issues noted that the subject of the legislative initiative had not been provided with financial and economic justifications for the bill and proposals for amendments to Ukraine's legislative acts. Ukraine's Ministry of Finance does not support the adoption of the bill, because the proposal to modernise elevator equipment based solely on the state budget, regardless of the form of housing fund ownership and without the involvement of other sources of financing, is considered insufficiently justified by the Ministry. So taking into account the social significance of the bill, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis for its first reading and further elaboration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u152	Thank you. Vote? I would like to vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities for 2009-2014. [[on the inclusion of a separate action "Capital repair, modernization and replacement of elevator equipment"]] [[Registration number 9457]] Please vote. [[18:19:15.]] For-64 Not supported. The bill was rejected. What's not fair? The draft Law on Amendments is under consideration. There's no motive. Yuri Anatoliyovich, well, I'm sorry, I said, "Do we vote? - We're voting." What do you want from me? Draft Act amending certain legislation of Ukraine on the establishment of responsibility for breach of temporary placement services. [[living]] [[Registration number 9320]] There's an offer under a reduced procedure. [[6:20:04]] For 213 Offer supported. Report by Zac Aleksandar Viktorovich. The committee is Moses. The committee's conclusion is, "Take the bill off the table." Dear colleagues, "to accept the proposal of Ukrainian National Deputies Zac and Pinchuck to withdraw the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to establish responsibility for violating the provision of temporary placement services and withdraw it from consideration." [[living]] So this is an initiative of the MPs themselves. So I'm voting on a motion to withdraw this bill. Please vote. About withdrawal and withdrawal. [[18:21:16]] For 249 Decision taken. The bill has been revoked. The bill's authors' proposal: take it off the table. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, [[ensuring equal rights and opportunities for women and men in the field of work]] [[Registration number 8487]] There's an offer: bend over the short circuit. Please vote. [[18:21:54]] For 223 Supported. Please, Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u153	Respectable colleagues, a very interesting bill that the authors propose in the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the public service, political parties and other laws to propose for a gender quota, proposes that an equal number of men and women be represented. Well, since we understand, according to Parliament, we have very few women, it is not a normal gender equality, although there is a negative attitude that is not fully understood in this regard. But the authors propose and propose to amend article 22 of the Labour Code to strengthen gender equality for women. In this case, however, this proposal may not be accepted because it is in the Labour Code and a similar provision is contained in the draft Labour Code. The authors therefore propose to adopt the bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u154	Oleg Zarubinski, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u155	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee at its meeting on December 7, 2011, reviewed a draft of the Ukrainian Law, which was called the previous speaker, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputies Shevchuk, Suhim, and Maruschenko. The draft law proposes to complement a number of legislative acts by Ukraine to ensure equal rights and opportunities for women and men. In particular, the laws governing the election of Ukrainian national deputies, the election of members of local authorities, should be supplemented by provisions for ensuring representation in each five candidates for both women and men at least two persons of the same sex. Logically, there is still a fifth position in five — two hundred. It's such a joke, but it's in the law. Dear colleagues, the idea is taken into account by equal opportunities equal to the rights of men and women. But there's a crucial point, and I don't think he's presupposing a discussion on the fact that the innovations proposed by the authors of the legislative initiative are changes to those laws that are already in the old edition. So you and I have already passed a series of laws in the new edition. So by adopting this bill, we're accepting what can't work anymore because there's a new version of those laws. This is true of both the State Service laws and the election of Ukrainian national deputies. But the committee is attentive to the subject. And we would ask Adam Ivanovich and the honourable colleagues to send the subject of the legislative initiative for further development, in contrast to the opinion of the scientific and expert department. We voted unanimously on the committee to work on the committee, and we would ask your support to send it back for re-reading or, as we say, to work on a profile committee, we would work on it so that it wouldn't be fragmented, but it would be serious. Thank you. There's this shape.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u156	Thank you. But it's not exactly the right form. When rereading, there is nothing the committee can do but report it again. When it comes to the work of the author or the committee, if the author agrees, then the committee has the right to work. So let's, I think, the author won't mind, we'll send the committee to work with the author. You don't? Besides Carmazin, others don't insist? Please sign up. Because women want to come out. Please, Grivkowski does not insist. Fedun, don't insist. Carmazine?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u157	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National MPs, during the consideration of Bill 9457 on the elevators, I said to the chairman that it was not really done. And I'll tell you why. In Kiev and Odessa, two thirds of the elevators need repair and health? Two thirds, think about it! Every day, something can happen. And you and I are going to figure out whether we're going to find the money or not about 5 billion, and we're going to move 140 billion to the Euro, and we're going to put 18 billion just two weeks ago on governance structures. And we wonder if it is worth saving people's lives? It's worth it. As a result, we did not discuss the matter, and I feel that it is unfair. And elevators don't know discrimination, including gender. And that's where everything can happen with people you love. As a result, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, we will have to go back to that law, to make changes to the program, where Mr. Baranov and his colleagues, who rightly proposed what should be done, are both Prutnik, and Bondik, and Platokov, and Litwin, I sincerely thank them for the legislative initiative. With regard to this bill, which is now under discussion, I think it should be adopted in the first reading, despite the fact that we have already written down and written these words: "with a view to gender equality." And what did we see more women ministers there? We didn't see it. Therefore, the proper proposal for the Cabinet of Ministers Act is to be recorded. And what we have seen is that the Constitutional Court wrote something other than what they wanted to get rid of the opposition, how it would get worse. No, we haven't. Because of this, it is absolutely right that there should be two men of another sex on the election lists. That is why I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u158	Yes, please, Popescu, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u159	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! Indeed, the issue of gender equality is very important. But I wanted to draw attention to what is being proposed to make changes to the Ukrainian Election Act. And we've accepted it and we've already started running election committees, and they're doing everything they can to get the election through honestly and transparently. I would also like to remind you that on April 11, we adopted the Supreme Council Regulation on the fulfilment of our obligations to the Council of Europe, in line with conclusion 190, and on the implementation of resolution 1862. In this regard, it was suggested that the Cabinet of Ministers establish an interdisciplinary commission that would address the issue of amending legislation taking into account European experience in various fields and criminal justice. But also in the electoral field. So if someone is proposing to make changes to the laws that are still working, which we can't change now, because the Ministry of Justice has already started working in this direction, experience is gathering and relative to how women are represented on the lists. By the way, nowhere to write two plus two, they always write, for example, at least 30 percent, like, even in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u160	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u161	The issue of national minorities also needs to be resolved. But you can't have the option they're offering us. So we're going to send it for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u162	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u163	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Because it was my bill on gender policy that was adopted in this Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I want to tell you. I'm absolutely impressed today. Let's grab something and give it as a big policy. In Finland there are no laws on gender policy. But 70 percent of Parliament is made up of women! There is nothing we can do by law. What's more, the Cabinet of Ministers, et cetera. But everything is already in the law! About equal opportunities for men and women. And you don't have to regulate the numbers, 2, 3, 5 and so on. We've always supported this bill. But I think today is a tribute to the political situation. We should have talked about this five years later.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u164	Thank you. I'm voting on the proposal. If the author doesn't insist, let's probably vote on the committee's proposal to send a bill to the committee. Please vote. For committee development. [[18:31:49]] For 243 A decision has been made. The bill is directed to the committee. Is there a piglet? Yes. A draft Act amending article 4 of the Law on Joint Investment Institutions is under consideration. [[on the protection of property interests of ISI participants]] [[Registration number 10087]] There's an offer to consider a reduced procedure, please support. [[18:32:31]] For 214 Supported. Please report to Praslov Igor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u165	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! To date, the existing law on joint investment institutions allows for the extension of the ISI lines only once, and only if the value of net assets falls by 20 per cent and more over the past 12 months. The bill also proposes to expand the list of grounds for such an extension by also dropping the value of securities below the denomination and other grounds. There is also a limitation on the number of extensions. It should be noted that, in the event of a disagreement between individual investors, ISI participants for the extension of the bill proposes a clear mechanism for the redemption of securities from such investors. We have fully worked on this issue with the regulator. It is recognized that there are problems of loss of money by investors, even if they wish to extend the work of the ISI and earn money on their investments. The Chief Research and Expert Office supports the adoption of the bill, making one small technical point to the bill. The National Securities and Stock Market Commission also presented its expert conclusion, which is generally in favour of the bill. Since the consideration of the draft, the Cabinet of Ministers has come to the conclusion of our committee, in which the bill is supported with minor comments. The Committee decided, at its meeting on 25 April, to recommend the adoption of the draft law on first reading and the reduced procedure for its further reading. Please support the position of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u166	Thank you. There is a proposal to vote. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Law on Joint Investment Institutions. [[Registration number 10087]] Please vote. [[18:34:42]] For 249 Supported. And the second sentence is to vote on a simplified procedure for preparing for second reading. Please vote. [[18:35:05]] For 251 Short-term procedure. Yes, the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges. [[on the procedure for dealing with the election of judges]] [[Registration number 8568]] There's a letter from the people's deputy Kiwalov calling off the bill. So I'm voting on the proposal to call off the bill and take it off the table. Please vote. [[18:35:53]] For 247 The bill has been revoked. We are considering a draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Act on the Judiciary and Status of Judges. [[non-compliance with the social guarantees of judges]] [[Registration number 9243]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:36:26]] For 225 Supported. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Get ready for Sphinx.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u167	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to not looking at what's written in your instruction right now, but looking at the point. The bill is not political. I propose to supplement the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges with a new article 135 p.m. The content is, "A month's retention of judges is not taxed by any kind of tax." Why is this bill introduced? This is because there is a mixed interpretation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation by the authorities of the State, and as a result of the existing legal gaps in the Tax Code and the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges on taxation of monthly financial detention of judges. The referee’s appeal to our committee personally showed me that there was a problem that was very simple for tax administrations. For example, the deputy head of the DPA, Mr. Doctor S.I. published a letter stating that the Tax Code needed to be understood so that everything was taxed and everything began to be taxed. The judges began to appear before the courts, and these cases were lax. On May 17th, a year ago, in 2011 I filed a lawsuit with the administrative court, which was held throughout the summer and was examined on October 5. The court has been found to be illegal by the State Tax Administration. Now we're still on the case. At the same time, I registered this bill last October. During this time, the Constitutional Court concluded on 14 December 2011 that the concept of "annual life support" used in subparagraph "e" of paragraph 165 of article 165 of the Ukrainian Tax Code means an unpaid payment as a judge who, having the right to resign, continues to work as a judge and to receive it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u168	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u169	Thank you. on retirement, continues to serve as a judge and receives from the state budget in the form of monthly maintenance, which is part of the legal status of the judge and one of the guarantees of his independence, as well as a retirement judge who receives such payment from the Pension Fund of Ukraine at the expense of the state budget. The Constitutional Court seems to have made a decision and there are no questions, but the question is, the question continues. That's why I'm suggesting, let's write it down in the law and take down the whole question. Because the decision of the Constitutional Court is implemented only when it pleases someone. If not, it will not be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u170	Thank you. Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u171	The bill was considered by the Committee on Justice at its meeting on February 8, 2012. The bill is designed to provide independent guarantees of the independence of judges. It's proposed in the Ukrainian Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges to provide for monthly retention of judges is not taxed by any kind of tax. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its decision of December 14, 2011, stated that monthly life support meant unpaid payment as a judge. Nevertheless, tax authorities have a mixed application of laws and tax laws every month on court custody. Taking into account the misapplication of tax rules for the monthly retention of the courts, the Committee on Justice decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u172	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Nobody insists? I'll take the vote as a basis. Excuse me, who? Ah, Zybenko. Other than Zibank, no one? Please, Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u173	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the title of the bill, not the title, but to what is in parentheses, namely, the non-infringement of the social guarantees of judges. That is, if we emphasize that the guarantees of judges cannot be violated, it must be understood that everyone else can be violated. That's the first one. Another thesis. Dear colleagues, perhaps the issue of amending the judiciary legislation is perhaps the most common in this room. But I did pay attention to one paradox. After each change, the judicial system works worse and worse. And the third thesis I'd like to make. Dear colleagues, we've protected the judges in everything. We now protected them even from laws, that is, judges are already free from laws, making decisions. Let's stop this decision. After all, when will they protect citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u174	I put to the vote the draft Act in the first reading on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and status of judges. [[Registration number 9243]] I'd like to make a statement. [[18:42:29]] For the The bill was rejected. You can do it in factions. By factions, so I don't have to take up time: "Our Ukraine" is two and the People's Party is one. Everyone else didn't vote. We are considering the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. [[Registration number 9458]] There's an offer, under a reduced procedure. [[18:43:10]] For 201 Supported. Reported by Hlavate Sergey Petrovich. A member of the Justice Committee, Kelestin Valeriy Vasilovich, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u175	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! On 21 December 2011, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered, at its meeting, the main draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. [[Registration number 9458]] [[of November 15, 2011]] The bill aims at enhancing the role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in ensuring the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and especially in addressing systemic problems that lead to violations of the articles of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is proposed that a number of amendments be made to the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the Ukrainian Court of Human Rights with a view to establishing a legislative basis for the implementation of procedures whereby the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the standards of the Council of Europe and the best practices of European countries, will contribute to the proper implementation of the rulings of the European Court of Justice. The main scientific and expert office supports the idea of strengthening the role of parliament in Ukraine's compliance with its international obligations, namely, the exercise of parliamentary control in the field of decision-making and the application of court practice. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Justice believes that the adoption of the bill will establish an effective mechanism for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and will contribute to the implementation of parliamentary control over the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the Ukrainian Court of Human Rights to consider in the first reading and to accept as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u176	Thank you. Yes, no, they insist. Yavorowski, Popescu, others insist? Then, please, Yavorowski, then, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u177	Dear colleagues, dear voters, we do know that this is a new practice in our society. I don't know if I've ever been. This is indeed a new issue and, indeed, some very important points need to be fixed here. The bill was introduced by Sergey Headate, who came by the lists of the Party of Regions, this is a man of very high international legal qualifications, working in the Council of Europe, you know, and working at a very good level, I've met with this many times, he has very high authority. Because of this, I think that the bill he introduced is really important. It's actually very simple. Because the representative of the government in the European Court of Justice, the one who did the lie-ombudsman until recently, that's what I would call it. Because of this, he suggests that we be kept informed, that we be informed with you, the Supreme Council, in every particular matter. For whatever we have, we have a copy of these documents, we have copies of these decisions, and every year by 1 March, the Head of the Council suggests that the Supreme Council be informed last year on all the literally pending cases before the European Court of Justice. It's very important, it's really going to get us closer to Europe, and it's finally going to be the order. Because today it's all going somewhere, so it's in the office. In fact, as national deputies with you, we are not informed about any specific matters. We know a few such loud things, someone against Ukraine and so on, and we don't have any specifics. Because I believe that we must support this bill, it is indeed another step towards bringing us closer to European standards and to normalizing this international case law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u178	Please, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u179	Thank you. On 26 April of this year, during the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, members of the Ukrainian delegation, in particular our colleague Sergey Kiwalov, I reported to the Legal Committee as the head of our delegation on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights decision. Other issues also raised the issue of the legislative provision of this process. And one of these points concerns parliamentary control of the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. As this issue is extremely relevant and on May 21st in the following week in Paris on the Legal Committee, our colleague Kiwalov should report again on the situation, the adoption of the first reading of this bill will show that Ukraine will continue its dialogue with the Legal Committee, that Ukraine is fulfilling its obligations to the Council of Europe, and the Party of Regions will always do what it promises. We promised to do it -- we'll do it and we'll vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u180	Yes. Carmazine, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u181	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! It would be very good for the Party of Regions to show how it does what it promises. In the meantime, she showed by the previous vote how she ignored the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and showed others how it was done. That's the first one. The other one. What should be done in this bill, which was submitted by national deputy Sergei Petrovich Golovati? Parliamentary control. It clearly states that the Supreme Council is exercising parliamentary control over the enforcement of decisions and the application of the court. True, it is not written that we had an ombutzman and that there is now a family contractor. Because the person who's there now has arranged for his wife to be in the office of an Ombudsman and there may be a conflict of interest. True, other things happen. So I think we need to advise the Council of Europe to adopt this bill in two readings. And I agree with Popescu, then it will be clear and clear, in the first and second readings. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u182	Thank you. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The main scientific and expert management is offering to go back to work. I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the first reading the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights, please vote. [[Registration number 9458]] [[18:50:24]] For 253 [[B in m in s a l in]] Carmazine insists in general. Is there a denial? [[B in m in s a l in]] We are considering a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on licensing regulation. [[Registration number 9726 of the bill]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[18:51:10]] For 210 Supported. I can't see Royal Natalie. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u183	Dear colleagues, the purpose of the proposed bill is to cancel copies of the licenses to do business, i.e. to simplify business, eliminating the need for a copy of the license every time a new branch is opened. The need to obtain a copy of the license at the opening of branches and branches has been an obstacle to the development of the enterprise. Because actually getting this copy requires the same procedure, which is a collection of very large amounts of documents and help, as well as additional expenses. As a copy of the license is issued, a fee is collected in the size of one non-taxable minimum of citizens’ income. What's proposed. First. Cancel the need for a copy of the licence to conduct the business. The other one. Instead of a copy of the license, approve the license plugin. This plugin will include information on the location of the legal entity’s branch and include information on the location of a natural person who is an entrepreneur of a business that is licensed. Third. Determine that the procedure for the design and modification of the licence plugin will be established by a specially authorized licensing authority. The bill we're proposing is a step towards removing obstacles to small and medium-sized business. He does not require additional expenditure from the budget. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u184	Thank you. No, it's not. Xenia Mikhailna Leapina from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u185	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! Dear colleagues, this bill was discussed by the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship on February 7, 2012 at its meeting. This is certainly a very positive goal of the bill, namely, the elimination of the licence requirement, a copy of the license to conduct the business when a separate unit is formed by the owner. This will certainly simplify the situation if we implement this direction, but the committee points out that the committee now has a new version of the Licensing Act, which is further developed into a second reading, which contains a lot of useful directions, including fully incorporating all the norms of this bill. In fact, the best option would be to finally adopt, by the way, the first reading of the bill initiated by the government, which is not currently being considered in the second reading, precisely because of the government's position, which, on the one hand, has proposed a new version, and on the other hand, somehow doesn't know why to consider it or not to consider it. So this vague government position is related to constant structural reforms, destruction now, the creation of a new entrepreneurship, the frame changes, the position can't, they can't, they're disrupting any process of legislative resolution of licensing issues. We propose to adopt this bill as a basis, although it is clear that the best way is to adopt the bill in a second reading as a whole in a new version of the licensing bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u186	Thank you. Shall we vote? I put to the vote the adoption in the first reading of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on licensing deregulation. [[Registration number 9726]] [[18:55:22]] For-9 The author is not the one who was rejected. And last question: the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[on the deferred payment of insurance premiums for mining enterprises]] [[Registration number 10137]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[6:56:04]] For 214 Supported. Reports the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Vasil Georgievich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u187	Dear colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers bill proposes to address the conflict that has arisen in the coal industry with regard to payment of contributions and, more precisely, a single social contribution to social insurance funds. The case is that, under the law, the coal industry is obliged to pay this single insurance contribution up to 20 times the current month for the reporting period and the State pays the miners for the coal obtained after that number. And it's not the miners' fault that there's a conflict and a delay in payment. As of 1 March 2012, there was a debt of 360 million and 42 million pennies had not been attributed to miners. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to increase the total amount of 8 days to the 28th of the current month in the previous reporting period. In this way, miners will receive funds from the State on time to the coal mine, in time to pay insurance contributions and no debt for insurance contributions and no foam. Therefore, our committee strongly requests that it, the bill, be adopted as a basis and in general in order to address a very important issue for the coal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u188	Nobody insists? Except Carmazin, no one? He digs even deeper like a miner. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u189	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I can see who's lobbying this bill. If it were just government mines, there would be no questions at all. And it's not just about government mines. It's about big businesses of a lot of people sitting in this part of the room -- very big business. As a result, I insist, dear Adam Ivanovich, that this law should have a second reading. This is the first time. And that's where we're going to predict that this only applies to state-owned enterprises. This will be absolutely fair: the state promotes state-owned enterprises. And the oligarchs want to buy some more oligarchs, or they want to buy some more oligarchs, and so on, let them put the money here, let them put it here, and then they're calculated at the right time with the miners. So such a mechanism is absolutely possible, and let us act according to the Rules, reverend Adam Ivanovich. Because we've included this bill today -- we're looking at it today, of course, today, and we want to do the second reading right away. Well, yeah, we have a specific state now, it turns out. It doesn't matter to us that someone doesn't get paid, other categories of citizens. I'm going to support the miners completely around where it's needed. I'm just not going to support the owners of the mines that bought these mines, which have artificially done everything to keep them out of work and to be preserved mines that are pumping money out today from the mine closure. That's what I've been up against, and I'm going to do it. That is why I propose, dear Adam Ivanovich, if you vote, only for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u190	Yes, dear fellows. Yes, I am guilty of Ganustak. Please, one minute. Please, you're a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, look at what the colossal is, if it's true that only miners have such a problem, just because they're paid later, let's make them pay early on the other side. So we're not doing the same thing in other areas. There's only one system of payment of this single contribution, if, indeed, such a colossal, I understand that there is such a colossal, so let's let the other pay. Make changes to the treaty with the State in payment for previously unloaded coal. Because we're breaking the only scheme that exists in Ukraine. It's because of not rejecting the idea of timely payment to make the money go the way it's supposed to, let's think about, as it should, for second reading, maybe after this decision is made better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u192	No, no. We listened to the miners, and now we'll listen to the miners. Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u193	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, we have listened to the professors of coal production here today. We have to go to the mine first, and then we have to talk. First of all, the coal industry, the coal industry and the private sector, and the government, are the coal miners of Ukraine, not America. And today we are suffering unjust losses because we cannot pay in time. And you know, I'm reporting that coal is problematic today, you know that. Consequently, delays are due, and miners cannot pay to enterprises. And we lost money that could go to work and safety. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to support the relevant committee to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u194	Dear colleagues! Now, wait. Let's take it easy. On the one hand, it's kind of a technical novel: everybody pays 20 numbers, no later than 20, the miners are asked to move to 28 numbers. Now, please, Turmanov, explain what this gives them, so that everyone can understand why not 20, but 28. Please, Turmanov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u195	I explain, Adam Ivanovich. We have adopted in this room a sessional law on the prestige of mining work. And that rule only worked for miners. But when the law is passed for all, I explain again today, not because coal miners are so bad, but because of the economic situation. Let's take it this year, we'll meet them to pay and pay every month, but they won't pay the fines, which are in line with the law, the Pension Fund and all social insurance funds. Among other things, the bill was supported by the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Economy, and virtually all those who seem to be interested understand the situation that has arisen today and now in the coal sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u196	The law of retroactive force, if there are penalties, will have to be paid. Please, Ephraim. So just explain the difference between 20 and 28. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u197	Adam Ivanovich, we all have a government budget in the room and someone who can read and can work with the budget sees, every year, that we're sending more than 6.5 billion to the coal industry and not because we want to, but because there's trouble that requires payment of wages, first of all, to miners because we have very deep mines. If we are going to the State budget, it is made up that the principal payments of the enterprise are paid at the end of the month, so the State can only pay those amounts at the end of the month. If the State does not pay in time, the mines, regardless of who they are and what they are, do not pay a penny, and pay quite a large amount of pennies, up to 100 million pennies, which are not time-consuming. Therefore, I would like to listen to the experts who are involved in these matters, and those colleagues who want to take a position on this subject will understand a little bit about what a mine is. Because, frankly, your speech is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m1.u198	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry I asked you to read us a prescription to make it clear that there are no violations or abuses here. That they get paid later than 20 numbers. So they obviously can't count to 20 with the state. And I don't see any problems. Some pay for the 20th, others pay for the 28th. The main thing is that we don't exempt them from payments. They'll pay anyway, but not on the 20th, but on the 28th. What's wrong with that? I propose to pass the law as a whole. Please vote on the Act on Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance, please vote as a law. [[Registration number 10137]] [[19:06:07]] For 258. Thank you, the law has been passed. Dear colleagues! Thank you for your fruitful work. We worked largely in harmony. At this evening’s meeting, I declare it closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
