ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:30.]] They registered in the 352 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Honourable National MPs, two factions: the BUT faction, Fatherland, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" have filed an application for a recess in order to be able to make a statement. Andrew Kožemyakin has the floor for the application, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u2	Good afternoon! The Euro-2012 is the festival of the strongest football teams in Europe. It gave inspiration to all the cowards. During the entire championship, however, no one ever forgot that there was lawlessness in our country against the leader of millions of Ukrainians named Yulia Timoshenko. Compare sports with politics and elections to the Supreme Council with the final match, a team of united opposition is a confident contender to win, but forced to go out without its head coach. And our opponents, the so-called team of professionals, are thus hoping to win this country-wide match. A party of regions can't play by the rules of fair play, they're afraid of Yulia Timoshenko, and they know they'll never win without the ban. Elections cannot be fair if the leader of a team supported by half the Ukrainian population in the presidential election is in prison illegally. World history knew when politicians did not play fair. But the way that today's authorities behave with Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko can be compared to the fact that they shot the Kyiv Dynamo in 1943, here in Kiev, after their victory over the football team of the Fascist Luftwaffe. The government in charge of Victor Yanukovic is going the same way. Obviously, our President wants to repeat the tragic experience of the world’s worst dictators. Therefore, whatever puppet exhibitions before the representatives of the European Union have been held by the authorities about a fair trial against Timoshenko, it is clear to all that it is just a theater. The delay in the trial of a falsified case against EES was only due to the fact that the Euro - 2012 was held in Ukraine. And as of July 10th, we will be witnessing the next court in the best traditions of the Inquisition. If anyone has any doubts, I'd like to take a look at the photo of the glass aquarium in the Kharkiv Court Hall to put the defendant there. The government was preparing for a political show, and the next Kiriev, just this once in Kharkiv, has already demonstrated that the only criterion in making decisions is the direction from Bank's. The same is true in the consideration of Julia Timoshenko’s cassation complaint. The higher specialized court, without any legal basis, is also adjourned by a court hearing in contravention of the law. Julia Volodymyrna appealed to the court to hear the complaint without her participation, and this was not taken into account. All the prosecutor's concerns have been satisfied, even if they're illegal. The parliamentary majority can do anything in this room, not allow the opposition to adopt current laws, block the creation of temporary commissions of inquiry so that the public does not learn the truth. You're cynical about shrines, in Ukrainian, but remember, a Ukrainian team called "For the Motherland!" He will win this battle and will win the war with Timoshenko. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! Today, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have time, opportunity for authorized factions with applications, reports, and requests. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the performance. As long as the record is being recorded, I provide you with an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 19 to 22 June 2012. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 95 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 24 laws and 16 regulations were passed, 8 bills were passed on the basis, 2 bills were sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, 7 bills and 1 draft decree were returned to the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, 14 bills and 2 draft decrees were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been passed in general, taking into account President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law is aimed at furthering the committee. 161 parliamentary inquiries have been announced. Ladies and gentlemen, I have given you this statistic to remind you that we have almost twice as many questions to consider this plenary week. If you wish, the evening meeting may continue. Now let's move on to the factions. National deputy of Shishkina. Who will act? Arsenius Yatsenuk, please. Soroczynska Kirilenko will be next. Dear colleagues, two regulations, that is, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u4	Dear Ukrainian people, honourable members of Parliament! The Euro-2012 has ended – and we can say boldly that the Ukrainians passed the European test. We have really proved ourselves to be a European state. However, Ukrainian corrupt and authoritarian authorities have not passed such a European test. It is because of this power that Ukrainians do not have the freedom to move around the European Union today that has prevented Ukraine from signing a free trade zone and a treaty with the European Union on a political association. Therefore, the united opposition of the Fatherland clearly stresses: The Euro has passed, the time of the rocks to be scattered has ended, and now we will be gathering stones. The opposition calls for the establishment of a commission of inquiry to use the $10 billion U.S. that have joined the construction of Euro - 2012 infrastructure projects from 46 million Ukrainians. It was 46 million Ukrainians who did it, the Euro, they paid their taxes, they paid their money. And Ukrainians have a right to know where these funds went and to bring responsibility to those who stole $10 billion. In particular, I would like to point out that some four hundred thousand of our Western friends attended the last match, visited without a visa, visited without a turn. What don't you say about Ukrainian citizens? In line with the European Commission’s latest conclusion, even Moldova has driven Ukraine into a visa-free regime today. There is no signed action plan with Ukraine at the end of the first phase of visa-free mode. The fault lies with President Yanukovich and, so-called, most of them. You have the majority, but you haven't been able to pass the relevant laws so that they can freely cross the borders of the member states of the European Union. The opposition requires the majority to immediately accept the entire package of necessary documents in order for the European Commission to confirm Ukraine's progress on the road to a visa-free regime. We demand for Ukrainian citizens of the European future, we demand for Ukrainian citizens a visa-free regime, we require President Yanukovic and the parliamentary majority to enact the relevant laws immediately. However, the parliamentary majority uses this majority, not for Ukrainian citizens, but for the separation of Ukraine, primarily for the destruction of the Ukrainian state and for the destruction of the Ukrainian language. Thus, a few weeks ago, 234 anti - Ukrainian and anti - government cards took the first step toward destroying the Ukrainian language. We insist that Ukraine, in accordance with article 10 of the Constitution, is, will and will remain the only national language, which is Ukrainian. And no matter what you do, you will never deprive Ukraine of its soul and its language. I'm going to point out separately that there were 234 ballots. We need to move away from cards and move on to the personal responsibility of everyone. The opposition has stated that from today we are demanding the implementation of the Constitution on personal voting. By our own example and by our own responsibility, we show that only the Ukrainian national deputy has the right to vote, not his colleague. Convinced that personal voting will never vote 226 for this anti - Ukrainian and anti - Ukrainian law. We demand from today this so-called authority and most of the implementation of the Ukrainian Constitution on personal voting and the implementation of the Ukrainian Constitution on its basic articles, including the only national language. Use the majority not to split the country, but use the majority to raise social standards, adopt laws that have led to the opposition to raise minimum living standards, wage, pension, criminal responsibility for voting on foreign cards, anti-corruption illustrations, and Ukraine's real promotion on its way to the European Union, not barter the country. We know that the united opposition will fight for the future of the country and we will choose this future country in the 2012 honest parliamentary elections. Whatever you do, we'll move forward. No matter what you do, Ukraine will remain a state with its language. The time will come when there will be no President Yanukovic, the time will come when the Party of Regions will remain only in the historical manual of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when most of those who sit behind these lavas today and have Ukrainian national deputies' badges will not be Ukrainian national deputies. And the time will come when your children and grandchildren will come and ask you a simple question, "Dad or grandpa, why did you sell Ukraine, why did you sell Yanukovich?" [[Applause]] In Ukraine, neither the glory nor the will nor the Ukrainian language died. And we're going to do everything we can to make the Ukrainian state flourish. And those who betrayed the Ukrainian state were responsible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u5	Soroczynska Kirilenko, group of Reforms for the Future. Please, will you be performing? Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished radio listeners! In March of this year, Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic outlined the strategic orientations of social reforms aimed at improving the quality of life of citizens. The essence of the Presidential Social Initiatives is ultimately reduced to enhancing the effectiveness of social policy and promoting social justice, including by levelling and overcoming depressed territories. In this context, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction. It is his responsibility to draw the attention of the government and the Supreme Council to the urgent social problems of the Chernigian region, which require immediate solutions. All of us, first and foremost, should bear in mind that Chernobyl, especially its northern regions, was not the most affected by the Chernobyl accident. The low socio-economic causes, including the complex environmental situation, have become one of the main factors in the actual population regeneration of the area, where mortality exceeds birth rate of 2.4 and in rural areas of 4 times. According to demographic projections, the reduction of the population of the Chernigiv region in 50 years may disappear from the Ukraine’s administrative map. In view of the foregoing, the MP's Reform for the Future is confident that the relevant authorities of the State should pay particular attention to the social protection and health care of residents of the area who have been exposed to radioactive pollution, especially children, our future and the hope of the Ukrainian State. However, in our daily life, there are more and more cases of brutal disregard of current legislation on social protection and health care for the population affected by the CHAES accident. Igor Ribakov, the leader of our parliamentary faction "Reforms for the Future" of the Ukrainian National Deputy Igor Rybakov, was urged by the Montenegrins to help them find the truth, to restore justice and to protect their legitimate rights and interests. Thus, from April 1, 2012 and by the end of the school year, nearly 5,000 children were deprived of hot food in the Radioactively Contaminated Areas of Korukovsky, Novgorod-Syverski, Seminovian and Sosnic region by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine of open competition for the purchase of food services for children living in contaminated areas. And this is despite the fact that free nutrition of secondary school students, vocational and technical institutions of education, college students and technicians located in the areas of radioactive pollution provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The cynicism and impudence of this situation are compounded by the fact that, due to the cancellation of the hot diet, these children were provided for according to the government’s decree to compensate for money, up to 180 to 190 dollars a month, depending on the age category. Is it worth mentioning that this meager amount of money cannot be enough to feed a child, much less a teenager? In view of the noted MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy Sergey Tihypak and Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikhail Azarov asked to take this situation under personal control and to take immediate steps to ensure and respect the legitimate rights of Montenegrin schoolchildren. We are confident that those whose children have been deprived of their hot meals need to be held accountable and that schoolchildren must be restored to a hot diet in educational institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u7	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. The next one will be the Eutychus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u8	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The Company's faction supports the fair indignation of a large number of our simple workers and pensioners as the first result of the so-called medical reform they have already encircled as the shortest road to the cemetery. In fact, it was geared towards mechanical reduction in hospitals, and the clinic, the infirmary, made it difficult for citizens not only to receive free but also qualified medical care. We need to stop this mess. Instead, as of 1 January 2013, its next phase, the reform phase of the ambulance system, is expected to begin. The company is categorically opposed to reforming all Special Emergency Relief Brigades, including cardiovascular, rheumatological and paediatric. Instead of highly qualified professionals who are able to provide emergency assistance, we will receive a team of medical teams, whose task is not to save the sick, but to deliver them to the nearest medical facility. Already today, because of chronic underfunding for ambulances, 76 per cent of those in need in Ukraine die without waiting for it or on their way to the hospital. What happens after the reform? In view of our realities and the condition of the roads, critical funding and logistical equipment for ambulance stations, it is not difficult to predict that ambulances can become trucks in such circumstances. The fleet is a 75 per cent fleet of equipment and medicines, funded by only 10 per cent. Brigades are on duty with a transitional ampoule and are painfully deciding on who to spend it on or on a child or on a pensioner. All of this, respected colleagues, has become possible because the idea of moving to paid insurance medicine is at the heart of the so-called medical reform. When corruption flourishes in the country, half the economy in the shadows and half the cost in the envelopes, pensioners, workers, simple employees, teachers, the same doctors, all workers, will be left without medical care at all. In Kiev, for example, the challenge of a private ambulance is at least 800 bracelets. Where you can just take that kind of money at a salary of 2,000 and a pension of a thousand bracelets. Respectable voters are obviously involved in the emergency health care in Ukraine, particularly with the critical lack of public funding. According to the World Health Organization, medical expenses should not be less than 5 per cent of gross domestic product; otherwise, they are not treated but they are mutilated. In developed countries, this figure varies from 7 to 15 per cent and more. In Soviet Ukraine, respected colleagues, listen to us think again and again about what is happening to us. In Soviet Ukraine, it reached up to 45 per cent, and in today’s bourgeois area it does not reach 3.5. I am no longer talking about the poor wages of those whose lives are in the hands of today. Therefore, it is not necessary to start with the destruction of the existing health system, not with the restructuring of ambulances for the private health business, but with due process with the guaranteed State funding of the entire health sector at a level of at least 10 per cent of gross product. Where to take the money, as always the question arises. We Communists have responded to it in our anti-crisis program. We need to get the economy out of the shadows. Ensure the domestic industry, including medical pharmacologically available loans of 2-3 per cent per year. Establish strict control over drug prices. Complementary funds can and should be included in the budget through the introduction of a progressive tax scale for luxury. The State monopoly on vodka and tobacco is another 30 per cent on the budget, some of which can be directed to medicine. We will do everything we can to get the people back free medicine. Quality and affordable and free medicine in Ukraine must be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u9	Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up will be Greenewecko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u10	Dear President, distinguished colleagues! The Euro-2012 football festival, which we have worked hard to prepare for for for several years, is over. My country has successfully met this challenge and has passed a difficult exam on "excellently". Ukraine has demonstrated the ability to implement projects of a European scale. The campaign to discredit the State, which was torn apart by individual opposition representatives and supported from abroad, failed with fever. Hundreds of thousands of Europeans have opened up Ukraine as a country of hardworking, honest people. We have built and reconstructed hundreds of infrastructures, they have changed the face of the country and will serve for many years. The real winners of the Euro, regardless of sports results, have become our people as a single team. I'm sure we've got a lot of big victories ahead of us! The championship, among other things, gave positive impetus to the Ukrainian economy against the backdrop of growing problems worldwide. GDP growth in the first half of the year, despite the grim predictions of skeptics, remained positive and exceeded 2 per cent. Budget revenues increased by 14 billion. The results achieved provided financial resources for the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine. The leadership has decided to send more than 33 billion to improve the standard of living of citizens. The first increased payments were received by the people in May. The cohesive work of the Supreme Council remains a major factor in the stable development of the State. During the X session, the parliamentary majority ensured a decision on 605 issues. Dozens of socially important laws are supported. This is primarily the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Lawyers, the Notary, and the Procuratorial Act. The set of these documents is revolutionary in nature. It is aimed at humanizing the legal system of the country. For the first time in human relations and society, we have placed human beings for the first time. The denial of benefits by the people's deputies was the first step towards restoring the principle of equality before the law. The next decisive step in this direction will be the removal of parliamentary integrity. Our faction is ready to do it this week. In our ongoing dialogue with society and professionals, we are improving the Tax Code. The law adopted at this session and signed by the President would greatly facilitate small and medium-sized businesses. Tax administration has been simplified and many bureaucratic barriers have been removed for entrepreneurs. A new Customs Code has entered into force. The main objective is to increase the transparency of business and customs relations. Dear colleagues, the tenth session is concluded. The months ahead for many of you will be filled with the work of the parliamentary electoral campaign. Already in advance, the opposition accuses the authorities of the alleged forgeries. As we know, they lie most during war, after hunting and before elections. Gentlemen, it's only your wish, but it's definitely not our plans. The holding of fair elections is a fundamental task of the current authority. As a result of the Euro 2012, we will again embarrass the skeptics. The election of a new Parliament will be organized on European principles of legality, transparency and democracy. But the interests of the country and its prospects cannot only be reduced to the quality of the electoral campaign, it is time to respond to much larger questions: strengthening constitutional guarantees of human rights, building civil society and the institutions of direct democracy, and finally the common philosophy of building a system of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u11	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u12	An effective platform for responding to these challenges is the Constitutional Assembly. This format should be followed by a serious debate between society and politicians, including the opposition. A constructive dialogue for the benefit of people and Ukraine is that platform that will consolidate all political forces in the walls of Parliament, and I hope it will protect us from further mistakes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Sergey Greenewecki, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! During the last month, Ukraine has actually done a decent European exam. And the main conclusion is that the country's international image should not only be created on the occasion of a football championship or some other notable event, it should be the everyday concern of all branches of government. Ukraine will head the OSCE in 2013. And we have to use this opportunity to raise the international status of the state. Today we have actually embarked on a campaign in the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will be a test for us and an object of global concern. In addition to the elections, the key political event of the year becomes the constitutional process. During the last decade, we have repeatedly witnessed attempts to change the Basic Law. In my opinion, one of the reasons for these failures is that the Constitution was considered not as a tool of law, but as a tool of government, it was tried to correct under the current political situation. In addition, a single legislative body, the Supreme Council, was tried to remove from the constitutional process. And in principle, it is important that the constitutional update should take place in strict compliance with the provisions of Chapter XI of the current Constitution, as set out in the decree of the President of Ukraine. In the process of working on a new version of the Basic Law, we need to answer a key constitutional question -- which state do we want to build, what will be its structure, the form of government, the political regime? And from that point of view, build the architecture of the state system. Obviously, the updated Constitution is to be the result of a compromise, a new social treaty, which includes among other things the cultural, historical specificities of individual regions of the country. A further step has been taken on the path of democratisation of society by expanding the participation of citizens in the administration of public affairs, decentralization, expanding the powers of local self-government, raising the responsibility of local authorities by expanding its powers, creating an effective judicial system that is accountable to the law -- that is, my view should be the order of the day of the constitutional process. In this context, we welcome the intention announced by the President of Ukraine to make local government reform necessary. We should not forget that you and I have approved the Law on the Fundamentals of External and Internal Politics, according to which our nation has a policy of non-locking. I think this position should also be reflected in the Basic Law. The legal status of the main national wealth — the land — needs to be clearly defined at the constitutional level, to eliminate existing differences and contradictions in this matter. It also needs to be anchored as a constitutional norm of direct action to protect property rights. However, the constitutional process is not a single act. With the approval of the Basic Law, it only begins. Any changes to the Constitution require changes to dozens of legislative acts and the adoption of new ones. We pass countless new laws, and we almost immediately accept the amendments. As a result, the process of enacting laws becomes more difficult, and some of them leave a reference on paper to the best wishes of parliamentarians. The low quality of the legal process is one of the key obstacles to the establishment of the rule of law. We have to remember, after the next election, and after the Euro-2012 doesn't end, it just begins. The newly elected deputies will have to participate actively in the constitutional process, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. For suggestions that need to be responded to, I would like to prepare appropriate references and assignments. I'm the one who's talking to the secretary. Victor Matchuk, what do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends, dear colleagues, I would like to make a request to you, with the request made in my application. Not so often these walls are filled with these statements, and I'm asking you to take it into account. So the statement is, "The Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Matchuk Viktor Josephovich. Statement: "I, the People's Deputy of Ukraine on the Sixth Call, Matchuk Viktor Josephovich was elected on 30 September 2007 in a multi-mandatory state district from the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" bloc, and gained parliamentary powers on 16 July 2010. In view of the fact that on July 2, 2012, I stopped being a member of Our Ukraine party, I find it impossible to continue my stay in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, to which I chose a block from our Ukraine. On the basis of article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution and article 4, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, I declare the formation of parliamentary powers. Dear colleagues! I understand very well that in order for this statement to become effective, it is necessary for it to be voted here by the constitutional majority of the parliamentary powers. I know that according to the law it is necessary for this statement to be previously considered on a profile committee. But this rule is designed primarily for some nonstandard situation. In this case, I'm here in front of you, as you can see, alive, healthy, in my memory, in my sanity and without any compulsion, I'm making this statement. I am not doing this because I do not respect the Ukrainian Parliament, but I am convinced that it is Parliamentarianism in Ukraine that can give new and positive impetus to the development of the Ukrainian State. Dear colleagues from the Communist Party of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues from the faction of the Party of the Regions, distinguished colleagues from the bloc of Lithuania, Reforms for the Future, dear friends from the opposition! I very much ask you not to be formal and now put to the vote, and satisfy my claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u19	Dear National Deputies! I think that these are exceptions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine when the National MP motivates his position and invites the Supreme Council to take a decision on the early termination of his mandate. If I am not mistaken, this was done in due course by the national MP, Vakarczuk. So, I think we need to support this position, I would say, principle and noble, our colleague Victor Matchuk, and make the right decision. So I am voting on the proposal to suspend the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Matchuk Viktor Josephovich in connection with a personal claim. Please vote. [[10:36:17]] For 298 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, allow me to thank Victor Josephovich Matchuk for his fruitful, peaceful, well-balanced work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for his principled position. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to personal statements made, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vasilska Sergija Volodimirovich and Harovsky Sergey Juriovich – from the MP faction "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" and their membership in the Party of the Regions' Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, two factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] So give me the material, I don't have the material. There's still got to be a Bondar People's Deputy, isn't there? Is it Bogdan? Give me the materials, I'll announce. I didn't get the materials. Well, please, I'll announce it, dear colleagues. Two factions: the People's Party faction and the Reforms for the Future Group, according to the Rules, have called for a recess in order to be able to make a statement. A statement will be made by Oleg Zarubinski, please. Give me the materials there, so I can announce entry into the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u20	Respectable citizens! The euro-2012 was successfully completed and it is absolutely fair at last today to thank all the organizers, all the citizens of Ukraine, the builders, the volunteers, all those who did not cry and work for it. Thank you! [[Applause]] The euro -2012 brought pride and self - respect to those who believed in Ukraine and sincerely desired good for Ukraine. And he caused despair in the condition of foreign hereditary Ukrainians who were pouring mud streams into our country and our people and everything they were doing to harm the conduct of the Euro in Ukraine. And he brought sorrow to some of the local pseudo-patriots who predicted and plastered all sorts of calamities and calamities the day before and during the Championship, and together he begged for all kinds of sanctions and boycotts of Ukraine, and who, standing on their heels, greedily and joyfully swallow every hoax uttered at the address of Ukraine by their patrons and sponsors from abroad. It was as if the tongue had been bitten when our people and our people were offended. An anti-Ukrainian information campaign of dirty foreign writers, inspired by some of their hypocritical politicians, who called Ukraine "land of whores", and our citizens "racists". Ukraine is not a country of whores, but a country of beauty, not theirs. Not their multi-story brothels. [[Applause]] And we're even more European than many of them. And not only because the great and civilized Kyiv Russia was ruled by the spirit and intelligence of the world, Jaroslav Wise and Vladimir Monomach, but most of their present capitals had impenetrable hosts with wild bears and barbarian tribes. And not just because it wasn't ours, but their ancestors started the war after the war, one bloodier than the other. And not just because we know what true Christian European values are, but what sodium and humor are. And because, as our numerous guests on the Euro have found, Ukrainians are kind and not aggressive, hospitable and not superior, have their own dignity and do not teach others to live, and in fact, more Europeans than those who teach us Europeans. Yes, Ukraine is one of the youngest countries to gain independence in modern times, and we have many problems, but it is a country with talented, hardworking, and beautiful people. And when someone there matures, fertilizes and covers himself with spider webs in his suffocating pride, Ukraine will flourish and move forward, for we have young, hot, and fresh blood.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u21	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the proposal to include in the order of the day a series of draft laws. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign in. Four in a row, four in a row. Please, the microphone. Evtukhov, will you be performing? Microphone, please. Alexander Efraemov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I understand that in some, the goal is to delay the work of the Supreme Council so that we do not accept anything. But actually, we have another goal to stand for. We've been working the last plenary week, maybe if no one wants to move on. Therefore, I propose not to make any demonstration and show of the very practical work of the Supreme Legislative Council and to include in the agenda the bills that are necessary today for the State that are agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Office of the President, with the National Bank in order to successfully complete the work of the sessional week, as we have been working almost the entire session. Thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u23	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko I would like to point out that the introduction of a bill to add 174 million dollars to the Attorney-General's Office is a completely cynical action by the Party of Regions, which today has led the country to this state. We are responsible for a border of about half a trillion dollars. The currency was reduced by $10 billion in just one year. We have a hole in our budget today about 50 billion dollars. And it's proposed to increase the funding of the prosecutor's office, which has already been increased to a billion dollars, an unprecedentedly large amount. And that's when there's some money out there today that's supposed to be for social programs. I'm sorry, dear friends, but to feed the prosecutor's office that abuses citizens of Ukraine, and we see this in the process of Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka and thousands of millions of ordinary citizens -- it's cynicism. You don't need to support that. This is something that is unacceptable in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u25	Grivkowski. He's refusing. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u26	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Think about what laws are coming to the Supreme Council? By the way, I want to point out that the first bill to amend the State Budget Act was submitted on July 27th, June 27th only, and the second bill is July 2nd, and they're already being treated today. One by one is 174 million, the other by 24.3 billion, the price by one. And it's without the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that we're being given here on a full-time show today, and we're being urged to do something about it. I read these bills carefully, including the first one in my life. And it turns out that when we were looking at the Criminal Procedure Code and we said that this code would be extremely expensive for the state, for us just for these months, for one action, for the creation of a regime-class unit to ensure the supervision of city leaders, district attorneys, inter-district attorneys, and for the creation of a register. We need 1,074 people to do that, and we need a further 174 million dollars, that's just for this part of the year. What will happen next? Why were the military prosecutors destroyed, where there were all the conditions for secret actions? But what is this done, ladies and gentlemen? It's a proponent at the time of the adoption of the law. We've been lied to from this rostrum, and now they're saying, "let's add more." I'm actually proposing to introduce a new term into circulation, not law enforcement, but security. There's no money for "power-guarded organs" in the people of Ukraine! They should have money for education, for health care.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u27	Thank you. Baby, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u28	Oleg Lazko. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Taking this opportunity, I would like to address the Attorney General with such a question. On June 15th, in the village of Gordnian district, after associating with the militia, 27-year-old Vladimir Avramenko was hanged, who was accused by police officers of growing five hemps. And tonight his younger brother, 25-year-old Ruslan Avramenko, hanged himself. Two boys, their own brothers, hanged themselves after talking to the police. I want the Attorney General's Office, which has billions of expenses in its budget for so-called prosecutorial supervision, to take charge of this case. Why two young boys hanged themselves after talking to police officers. Just like a young girl. I'd like to emphasize that this is the village of Zdrezhivka, the town district. And last week a young girl was raped in the city of Priluca, and so, after communicating with the police, she suddenly withdrew her application. [[Chernigiv region]] That's what the D.A.'s got to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10680]] Please vote. [[10:48:36]] For 253 Decision taken. Yes. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on State borrowings]] [[Registration number 10683]] Please sign in. Yes, last names, please. Yes, Grivkovsky refuses. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I propose to support the proposal to put this bill into the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u31	Thank you. Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u32	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT is the Fatherland." Gentlemen, look, it's 24 billion. To assess what this is, it is health care and education that is financed by the state budget together, and it is a loan. The budget code, in general, provides for similar changes to be made to the 9 - month report. We want to put our generation of future children in the cabal right now who have to pay for the deal with China. In China, it's money in general, and for us, it's a serious amount. Why we suddenly wanted to borrow from the same Chinese to advance their production here. This is completely insane! This means only one thing that the authorities of today have fully realized that they're losing any chance of being re-elected, and at the very end they're already tearing down everything that they can. He's robbing Ukraine, and after me, he's taking the flood! Because the sins of this authority will have to be paid for by future generations. It's not even 800 million that we gave to the prosecutor's office, it's 24 billion! Get your shit together at the end of the day! How many can you rob like that?Oh, my God! There is no way to vote even in favour of including this bill in the agenda. Then at least pay attention to the Codex Budget! Do not break the law. Legal, it's called.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u34	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders Dear National Deputies! Think about what's going on. There is absolutely no tax return on added value in the state. I want to address the government's representatives, the guarantor of the Constitution, the President. I want him to know that businesses that seem to be returning automatically account for VAT returns, they actually count for future periods as income tax! That is, we have companies that have already paid taxes five years in advance, tax liabilities to the state. Never since the existence of an independent Ukrainian state in Ukraine! In spite of this, it is thought that somehow we will get rid of the colossal borrowings that are now taking place. What are they trying to get the money for? Look, the law says that it's to buy, buy, see what, Chinese plant protection products, seeds for agricultural crops and so on. For over three years, I've been calling out to the whole of Russia that I'm Russian, and you're sending me away to whoever's the head of the occupying government, to Mr. Azarov, and I'm saying, the colossal labors of our scientists who sit without a penny of wages, the microwave technology, the colossal labors of our scientists who say how to do it without the Chinese, and the order is higher and cheaper than the Chinese. We're not doing anything. Now look at cynicism: preventing corruption. There are no risk procedures in the project. 24 billion does not apply to the socio-working sphere. [[Someone's gonna believe that?]] It's just the Chinese, not the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u35	Peter Simonenko from the faction, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u36	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. The faction will vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the matter in substance. I would like to remind my colleagues that, as a result of your policy, the lending of the International Monetary Fund has turned to the people of Ukraine for the loops, which requires today and an increase in the constant tariffs on the same gas, electricity, the elimination of the social benefits that our citizens have. This is also the adoption of pension legislation. It is your policy that Ukraine has ceased to be a politically independent State, frankly. The problem of the village today requires urgent intervention by the State, and in this case this credit, this support of the villagers, is essential to allow our land to be used on appointment today, not as our opponents offer, especially nationalists, who are already, say, rapak and sunflower only to sow our land and destroy it. I therefore believe that the honourable colleagues should support this proposal, vote and provide real assistance to our peasants, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on State borrowings]] [[Registration number 10683]] Please vote. [[10:55:29]] For 261 The factions, please. Region Party – 187, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-fractional – 10. Honourable National Deputies, now a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission]] Can we vote? Please sign in. Yes, I'd like the names of the National Deputies. Volodymyr Bondarenko, BUT-Paternity faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u38	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." You see what's going on. We get such a bill from our colleague in literally a few months before the election. For what it's done, it's clear. The technique that's planned to be purchased is basically monitoring systems. First of all, I'd like to say that one of these systems for every district would cost about 30,000 dollars. The odd price, the video cameras, and other equipment needed to do so are four times cheaper. Thus, the project, which envisions the unscheduled purchase of this equipment, is likely to be used by several sponsors of the Party of Regions and their satellites. Thus, it is not a matter of making the process electoral. It is fair to make the electoral process more electoral when foreign and niche observers have the right to control, including video surveillance on each site continuously during the electoral process. It's supposed to be just an electoral process to scare people that we're going to be watching, like you voted, yes. And here's what's going to be done without a fixation. Nor will the work of the District Commissions and the Central Commission be fixed, which the project envisions. So this project isn't about improving the technical conditions of the entire Ukrainian electoral system, it's only about using, well, almost a billion government money to use it for their sponsors and to control, above all, the electorate in the voting area. I don't think we should support this bill in such a treatise. At the same time, really, it's going to be necessary and necessary to do a full inventory of what our committees have, that we buy every election cycle, where it goes then, and why it's not kept, that the state funds are spent every time economically, and that they improve the work of the commission, and not make it worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u39	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u40	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill and I will prove why. This is a related bill, which, along with another bill, 10681. And the previous speaker is a classic saying when they say, "I could see that it was ringing somewhere, and it didn't read that it was like that." I would like to remind you that almost everything that has been said is not true. Read the bill. First of all, there's no cost of 30,000 dollars per district. Second, the total budget is 990 million dollars for all of Ukraine. This is the positive experience that was first organized in the Russian Federation, which is proud of all the democratic countries of the world. I can tell you, for the first time in my mind, Zabarsky, a national MP, passed a bill that I'm going to vote for with two hands, because before that there were some incomprehensible projects on military property. I want to tell you that this bill will add the ability to monitor not only during the vote but to record during the vote. Dear Volodymyr Bondarenko, read the law. And the next question. This bill is, in my opinion, right and positive, and it needs this state. Because if we want Europe tomorrow, which is set up to put Ukraine on its knees by such calls and to find elections invalid, it will make such steps impossible. So let's support it. Do not engage in political talk. It's the right bill, it's worth it. We'll vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u41	Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! It's all very true, except it has nothing to do with the bill that we're discussing right now. This is about Bill 10682 on changes to the State budget of Ukraine. And the discussion around the Law is actually going on in 10681 on the so-called necessity of open-minded, transparent electoral process. So, dear fellows, this is the first time in history, at least, that I've been in Parliament, and we're all devoting funds from the State Budget to the implementation of a law that hasn't been passed yet. Look, first 10682 and then as far as the end of 10681. But we don't know if we're going to accept it, we don't understand how to accept it. There is no conclusion on that, and there is no conclusion of the budget committee. None of these two have the conclusion of scientific expertise, because the bill is very strange and gives rise to a lot of suspicion. With that in mind, please tell me, did someone ask the Central Electoral Commission whether she was asking for these funds, and is it technically? For what is the Central Election Commission for Internet Translation? The Central Election Commission now has to postpone all its work and do technical work for a few months is absurd. The second question. Please tell me we recently purchased 10,000 video cameras, Webcams to equip external independent evaluation sites. What are we doing with these cameras? We're already writing them down, now we need new money for new webcams. Maybe it would be more logical to be more cost-effective to use those video cameras for any other purpose, including elections, if there's such a desire in the majority and in the power. So, dear colleagues, we haven't really figured it out yet. The profile committee didn't understand or calculate all the expenses and the purpose of these expenses, and we're immediately including them, and I'm afraid that someone will be squandering even in general without consideration in the committees and in the session room to discuss these issues. We therefore insist that this bill and Bill 10681 be considered, as required by the Rules, on the committees of profile, and only after that was considered only in the first reading here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Mikhaylo Chechtov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u44	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, you know, stand on the country's prestige, and the basis of this prestige is fair, public, transparent, legitimate, objectively held elections. And so far, I think we are all interested in this, even though the opposition, most of them, because again, I repeat, it is the most important thing — the prestige of the State. Therefore, there has been a constant criticism from a variety of mouths as to what could be falsified and so on and so forth. Therefore, for its part, most are taking steps to minimize the potential for distortion of the results of free will. And that's exactly what this law is about. And if we want to ensure the transparency of the elections, the objectivity and the honesty of the results, I think we should vote, otherwise there will be a double standard: say one thing and actually do another. We propose a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! This question has been discussed. It's pretty obvious that the proposal is based on the principle: "Get on the milk, start blowing on cold water." Dear colleagues, these endless discussions about the fact that elections will be unfair, undemocratic, with the help of international observers alone, do not withstand any criticism. If all of us were to act honestly, there would be no need for observers to have such a large number, and this law would obviously not be necessary. It costs a lot, obviously, we need to think about how to create a commission, if that decision is made, in order to control how these funds will be used and by whom they will be won. And all the rest is talking to the poor. So we don't have to vote 110 percent in some regions. Then let's, if we don't trust each other, we'll trust technology, but at the same time, we'll ensure control. And, dear fellows, there's no hurry. If we include the committee in the agenda to review all these laws, we have made a normal decision. We'll see by Thursday, I think there'll be time, we'll make a decision. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[on the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission]] [[Registration number 10682]] Please vote. [[11:05:26]] For 260 Decision taken. Your opinion is now proposed, Your Honorary Colleagues, the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2012". [[amending the name of the budget programme and the allocation of the general budget allocations to the Ministry of Justice]] [[Registration number 10639]] Please sign in. Names, please. Vladimir Karpuk. Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u46	Please hand over Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u47	Anatoly Matvienko, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. Then there will be the performance of Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u48	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Platform, Sobor. Dear colleagues, I am in charge of providing legal aid to our citizens, especially in the vacchanal where they are today. But I'm fundamentally against the way we're trying to do it right now. Three moments that I would like to pay attention to why this project cannot be voted on. Well, first of all. Providing legal aid to the citizens that the program is closing, and ensuring that the legal aid system is set up are two large, as Odessa says, differences. And that's why we can't say it's the same thing. Second: there is no justification for closing one application and opening another. This is a violation of both the Rules and the Budget Code. [[Part Three, article 91]] [[Part One of Article 27]] After all, it's a violation of article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which refers exclusively to government competence, and a national MP cannot thus propose a change to the budget. And I want to talk about the third argument here. Actually, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm drawing your attention and paying attention to the Committee of Budgets and all of our fellow MPs that the government is doing today. Instead of looking into the legal process of budget changes, the government today finds the national deputies and, through their initiative, tries to make changes to the budget, including such changes. This means that rather than allowing these changes to go through all the procedure provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers Act, this procedure is not going through. That means the government doesn't work, which means the government doesn't perform its functions. And so, Volodymyr Mihajlovich is obviously worth paying attention to the Government, which is self-absorbing, by creating some kind of rehearsal of the government's meeting, and through the MPs, it's forbidden. That's why we can't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u49	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u50	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." So what I'm going to do is I'm going to add, I'm absolutely in agreement with what these projects are going to do, clearly, just the government. Because it's, well, it's kind of a thimble that apparently Minust feels that such a project won't go through, it won't go through the purgatory of the government, and that's why they're looking for a deputy. In general, we need to make changes to the Budget Code, which changes to the budget can only be made from the government's initiative, because we, we have a budget going around. Now, before what our previous speaker said, one of the speakers, the pensioner, so-called, reform, the majority voted, not the opposition. Therefore, it is not necessary to give up on a healthy person with a sick head. And in addition, borrowing from the IMF, they go to maintain the balance of payments, it has to be explained to people, and not to cover budget deficits and borrowing from the IMF is the cheapest. The loans that our government makes are the most expensive over the entire period because no one believes the nation or the government. And so the percentages they pay are very huge. And we, if we don't take serious precautions in the Budget Code, and this in my project is that borrowing goes only to the development budget, we're looking at a default exactly the way it was in Greece. Because Greece flew out, not because there was a huge debt, but because 25 percent of the total budget was spent on debt service. And one day they found that there was nothing to give away, as they say, in the famous Ukrainian proverb. So, gentlemen, let us be very careful and considerate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, this matter has been discussed. You're absolutely right, given that the bill that the government is supposed to make is about changes to the state budget, it's about extra funds, it's about redistribution of funds, it's about government, and at the very least, it's got to be one bill. At the same time, understanding the procedural nature of the matter in the Cabinet of Ministers uses the help of national deputies. And with regard to amending the Budget Code, we cannot change the Budget Code by preventing members from making proposals for changes to the State budget. For this reason, there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that prohibits a deputy from introducing a draft State budget, and the draft changes to the State budget permit. That's the situation. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 shall be put to the vote. [[amending the name of the budget programme and the allocation of the general budget allocations to the Ministry of Justice]] [[Registration number 10639]] Please vote. [[11:12:06]] For 256 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, article 59 and article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in accordance with a personal statement made, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovic, into the membership of the deputy faction "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko – "Batekushchina". Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the features of ensuring the openness, transparency and democracy of the election of the national deputies on 28 October 2012. Please sign up. Yes, Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u52	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, well, in principle, after this bill, I have already made my previous statement. The only thing he didn't talk about at the time about money is that, of course, similar bills require funding. Yes, today we have spoken directly in the hall with the national MPs who have maintained a friendly relationship. And you know what scares you? If we fear similar initiatives ourselves, we do not understand why. Why is it supposed to be wrong, in my opinion, that a video surveillance that doesn't cost 30,000 dollars, as our predecessors said, is installed by two video cameras at different angles of the polling station. And as a national MP, who's going to be a major, I don't have the ability to keep a large number of official observers, I don't. So for me, as a small candidate for the MP, it's going to be a way out of this situation. Why is that bad? Why bad, let's say, open up and make the voting system more transparent. Why is that bad? Why is it wrong to introduce an additional video camera system to the polling station during the vote, but not in an open form as predicted, in principle, throughout the day, but in a recording mode that can be required by anyone, including the investigators, on the Central Election Commission, which is preserved one year after the election. What's wrong with that? It's not clear to me personally. And whatever "threats" is like, it's just money laundering from the budget, well, in my opinion, it's just incomprehensible things. That's not true, I'm sure it's about making a transparent monitoring system during the elections. Not much, I mean. How much is a video camera worth today to watch the Internet protocol? Well, 300 bucks, 250 bucks. Well, how much does it cost to teach people? So this is all going to lead to everything that's going to be built in our modern system, God forbid, just to get there, let's take it to the end of this session. Because if we accept it in September, it doesn't have a future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u53	National Deputy Fomin, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u54	Alexander Fomin. Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u55	Sergey Sobolev, please. Viacheslav Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, one of the publications asked: "Is there life after the Euro?".. When I see such bills, I realize that there is life after the Euro. And when a billion dollars are washed, think about it, 30,000 polling stations, you're beginning to understand what the previous speaker said. How much does a webcam cost? Well, let's make 250 bucks. How much does it cost to install Wi-Fi in a polling station? Well, 500 bucks. Where does 30,000 dollars come from for one polling station? Sorry, no one can understand that. And the answer is very simple. Open the End Positions of this bill, it'll all take place again without applying tender procedures. I think the answer lies on the surface. In order to clean up a billion dollars using a perfectly clear system, it will be clear why it will continue to be used. It's different. You know, one of the classics at the Holding Foundation said, "We'll sell it all, but I won't embarrass Rodin." This reminds me again of this bill, because this bill answers a key question. And how can you control the faces of people who vote during the electoral process, especially when it comes to small villages and villages, where they know each other very well, where they are provided with services to these citizens, where it's very easy to control, and you've come to the polling station. Other technologies used to be used, such as the removal of a newsletter via a mobile phone and then reports to the appropriate individuals who received the reward. I think that this technological progress can be halted, but you can't use the state budget in this way by embezzling a billion dollars in terms of taking all new and new government loans, more than that, not in transparent international financial structures, but in percentages of 12-13 that will then have to be paid. That's why I think it's our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u57	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u58	This bill should be finalized and only then put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u59	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u60	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Honourable voters, this authority often takes on arms an experience that is not necessarily necessary. That's how this whole story is going to be offered to the Ukrainian people and the video cameras. This is the Kremlin's final election experience. So video surveillance was being conducted by the Kremlin in Russia just to report to the observers and to the inside and to the outside that the elections can't, in principle, happen because there's a video camera on every area. So I think it's not about the number of cameras, it's about democracy. If there is no democracy in the country, political repression, persecution, lack of equal opportunities, then the authorities install video cameras. That's exactly what they did in Russia, and that's exactly what the current government wants to do. But there's a couple of a's. First. Especially in the province, especially in the villages, these video cameras will be a means of pressure on the inhabitants of these cities, towns, and villages. Everyone will say, "See, the camera's hanging, we know how you vote -- whether you vote for the Party of Regions or not. We can see everything." Another "but." A billion dollars. If you want to throw 17 billion dollars into the implementation of the anti-government language law, of course you have a billion dollars out of a simple Ukrainian's pocket. But this is the money that will be paid to Ukraine against which this video is being watched and will be installed. And third, last, but most important, but. Friends, that's when the votes are going to work, and when the cameras start to get really interesting, what else Comrade Stalin, the ideal instigator of most people, the voter count, these cameras are going off. That's what the bill says. And then you can take the video from the Central Election Commission. We vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u61	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u62	We are voting against this law. Because it's not democracy, it's not control, it's propaganda! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u63	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u64	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! Setting up Webcams to monitor the elections will make parliamentary elections transparent. In its time, the Russian Federation also went on to introduce the use of Webcams. And the Council of Europe welcomed that fact. Moreover, the elections were declared to be real. Of course, those who want to speculate about the holding of elections are all today shouting about counterfeiting. Because they're not sure they're going to win this election, and they're going to try to question it. Of course, they don't need it. Because this is a valid argument to prove that the election went through fairly and transparently. A party of regions will vote in favour, because these are the requirements of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u65	Oleg Zarubinski, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u66	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Correction. The first Webcams were introduced, not in Russia, but in Georgia. 70 percent of the polling stations in Georgia used to be equipped with webcams. Why 70. Because in the highlands, it was not done. 70 percent were equipped. It's for objectivity, why don't you talk about it? Well, second point. When there's a disposition from the beginning that the elections will be falsified, that the elections will be dishonest, obviously this initiative to some extent or to a large extent goes against the predetermined estimates, obviously already prescribed, as to how these elections are going to take place. Please consider these arguments as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. We have a certain dilemma here. Because when we adopt the Electoral Law and allocate appropriate funding, we do not tell the Central Electoral Commission how much computers should be available, how to do the math, and so forth. So, in large numbers, we need to understand one thing: if we support the installation of video surveillance, and by the way, it's offered there and during the counting of votes, then obviously the Central Election Commission has to decide how to apply video surveillance. But also because there is such a bill. Everyone's on the scene. There is such a bill, I put to the vote a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the features of ensuring the openness, transparency and democracy of the election of deputies on 28 October 2012. [[Registration number 10681]] Please vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a separate law that suggests acceptance. We have not yet begun to make changes to the Electoral Law. () [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:23:20]] For 255 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 184, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, Communists – 25, People's Party – 18, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-factional – 9. [[Check who voted]] What? [[The voice from the hall. (]] [[Unheard]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u68	About what? Well, 10 seconds, please, Yuri Carmazin. About what? Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u69	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for taking the floor. The thing is, we seem to be enacting a separate law. You understand very well, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that's where we have to make a change. Everything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u70	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not taking anything yet. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and on the central authorities of the executive branch. [[on the activities of ministries and central executive bodies]] [[Registration number 10457]] Please vote. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Take down the vote. Please sign up for the performance now. Yes, please, name it. Yes, please sign up with your respectable colleagues. The car doesn't want to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u71	Name, please. Eugene Kirilchuk, Faction of the Fatherland. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u72	I beg you to pass the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u73	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u74	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, for this convening, I, as a member of the Committee of Budgets, have observed a constant process of grading his role, well, apart from the individual officers of the committee who are choosing 30, 40, 50 million and more for themselves. In fact, the budget committee loses all influence on the distribution of social money. And this is one of the functions of public authority, one of the functions of the Supreme Council, to keep track of where government money is going, which is collected from citizens' pockets in the form of taxes. So what's this all about? Today, the Cabinet of Ministers wants this law to give itself the full right to plan the work of ministries, but not just to plan, but also to plan the financial activities of ministries. So the budget committee is completely not going to control the main loan managers that are today, which are ministries and departments. It's all going to ransom the Cabinet of Ministers, and there the Minister will regulate everything, so any budget transfers, the change of funding programs will come into the hands of the executive authority, which directly contradicts the constitutional requirement for the budgetary process to be in the Supreme Council, not in the Cabinet of Ministers. So we're going to observe how government funds are being distributed or someone is going to be watching from this Supreme Council, because such a Supreme Council, which is now obviously not needed by the State. She has lost all control over the activities of the executive branch. She gave up her basic functions as a ransom. And now we're seeing processes that will take decades of investigation: where the money went to Euro, why the expensive purchases were made, why the billion went to the polls, and they're going to go to the dust, because they're never going to install these cameras again, and so on. So, dear friends, do not uphold this law. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u75	Vladimir Karpuk refers to Anatoly Matvienko, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u76	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian platform "The Council". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize for your activity and, nevertheless, to draw your attention to the principle of things regarding this bill. The bill provides for declarative powers, that is, the government’s mandatory mandate to approve plans for the activities of ministries and central executive bodies — the chief budget administrators of the State budget. What does that mean? This means that now the government will centrally monitor every ministry. Before voting, think of the problem that exists today in Ukraine. First. The government has the right to control anyway. The other one. The government has many institutions that control the use of public funds by any ministry or central executive authority. Third. There's a classic. If we want to have effective authority, if we want to have effective ministries, in addition to the powers that they have, they should also have the right to use these powers. Today, the government is depriving it of its right, leaving it with only its responsibilities. Thus, we will have no effective activity. And finally, fourth. We go or we have to go through decentralization and deconcentration if we want to have a democratic state where there are opposites and interactions where there is mutual control. With this bill, we set up supercentralization. And that means that we're going through dictatorship, by establishing in a state a regime that can't be called democratic at all. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u77	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u78	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I address everyone. If we're going to talk about whether or not we're going to include these bills in the agenda, today we're going to spend the whole day including or not including these bills in the agenda. I have a proposition: Let us agree, and during the discussions, we will determine whether or not to enact this law. Because we have, in fact, one plenary Sunday before the break of the Supreme Council, and a lot of important laws. So I would like to call and listen to my opinion and vote in favour of the inclusion of all the bills that the Conciliation Council has tabled today. They agreed during the Conciliation Council yesterday and so forth, so why is the dispute in this regard? So let's vote for complex work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to take our colleague's opinion into account. If anyone wants to continue the session, you'll see, we'll confirm your schedule. Dear colleagues, this is an offer. Your right, you will discuss. We cannot vote because there is a Law on the Rules. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote to be included in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and on the Central Executive Authorities. [[on the activities of ministries and central executive bodies]] [[Registration number 10457]] Please vote. [[11:31:10]] For 259. Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. [[on property rights]] Well, please sign in. Yes, Moisik Volodymir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u80	Please give the word to Ganustak, to your colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u81	Jury's shame, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u82	Hanustak Yuri, "BUT is the Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen! This is a vivid example of how most actually admit their mistakes. I understand that you have excellent craftsmen in the solicitor's chambers, but in the end, the rope is wrapped in a loop. What is it? The law was passed, after which there was a legal obligation by the State Property Fund to usurp the market of assessors. They've done 12 firms, 80 evaluators, which are 5 or more times larger than what they are now, they're actually doing a property assessment, and they're doing it remotely, without going to the scene. So we've got 9,000 professional assessors out of work working in a clean market. It was a self-organized system. No, it was decided that there would be no more money, no more money for the election campaign. Now we've seen that there's not going to be much money out of it, even though it's actually half a billion people's pockets started to be removed. They saw the people rise up against it, and they took a backseat. I think this is where the Attorney General's Office has to look at how this question arose, who is the initiator, so that these people don't go to the next Parliament, because this is a disgrace to us: the legislative schemes that were proposed here. And most people have to be responsible for their actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u83	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u84	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Mr. Yuri has just said the main points on this point. What individual parliamentarians are doing today, especially "carcases and families" that are blocked, they're doing it solely to load their pockets. And this relationship with the evaluators proves it. What needs to be applied for in the transformation of land, land and property that is on it is the right thing to do. But I'm saying once again, you don't have to twist everything into your pocket, because some people here are used to confusing the concept, especially one of the "cushrooms" here said in terms of me that I said something wrong by one bill. What I'm saying is that the 930 million left goes to the electoral central commission, that's what I said right, that's not a prepared next affair. And that's one of them. I would like to say that contempt for foreigners, once said to have been run by the Cabanas, and we have already had our lives, we now have wild boars running in the village, and in the capital there are pigs who give such an assessment to Europe and the European capitals. We need to catch up with Europe today, learn from it, not blow it here. Because, unfortunately, we're still far away from the capitals where the Cabanas used to run. And I want to say about this bill that he could simplify for today, but once again, if there are friends of carcasses sitting there that at some point, the tender proposals have been spinning around here, the hall has been limping all the time, and they're sitting there today, those leaders who are giving instructions, in the faction of Communists, there's such a long time, really, it's not in the hall that actually runs this process. And in some other factions that make up the majority. So I'm paying attention, be careful, this bill needs to be cleaned up to bits, and in general it can be useful in general later.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u85	Fedun, Party of Regions. Please, Zarubinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u86	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, to the information of those who took the oath, not in November 2007, and then came to Parliament when the lists came up. Ideologists, instigators, and promoters of tender schemes were in the faction that you belong to, a respected colleague. You ask these names and they're all familiar. And they took them on the list, knowing who they were, apparently, was not easy. And so you take that into account, and next time you don't have to say that they're somewhere. You raised them, they're your foster parents. And as far as this bill can be useful, it's absolutely right. Therefore, it should be included in the agenda, discussed seriously, and made a objective and positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u87	The discussion is over. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session the draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. [[on property rights]] [[Registration number 10577]] Please vote. [[11:37:27]] For 258. Decision taken. We are considering the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning (for the Improvement of the Law) (registration number 10431). Shall we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sign up. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u88	Distinguished representatives of the opposition, distinguished representatives of the aggressive majority and respected voters! The point is that the last ministers who headed the Ministry of Defence, one of the most important factors in the existence of the state, were people. Ježel, who has distributed almost all the land that has just been in the last parts of the military, is now appointed Minister Solomonin. Dedicated because of his commitment to bring into the Ukrainian army the most fearsome and latest weapon in the world is the Taburette he has displayed here in the Supreme Council. Because of that, of course, it is today that the Ukrainian army is being prepared for total destruction, because the same Solomonine today seems to have thought up what he needs to offer to Ukrainian soldiers, our children and grandchildren today to raise pigs, chickens, rabbits, and so forth. [[By the way, a citizen of Russia until recently, a term has not yet expired when he may be a citizen.]] Can you imagine this army today on the backdrop of everything that's going on in the world? Because of this, of course, even the attempt itself to predict the level of weapons that these weapons must be, for which they are, of course, commendable. But I'm voting, and I don't think our faction's going to do that either, because that's all a complete fiction. Solomon today will never again think about the Ukrainian army being wary, mobile, high - paying, or anything like that. This bill is an absolute fiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u89	Fedun, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing? Grivkowski. He's refusing? I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Defence Planning. [[on the improvement of the law]] [[Registration number 10431]] Please vote. [[11:40:32]] For the 250. Decision taken. Next draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in international peace and security operations. Does no one insist on expressing their thoughts? Oh, no? Please sign in. A carpenter. Please. He's refusing? Then Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u90	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Respectable citizens of Ukraine who may listen and see us. What are we talking about? This is not just a name change, but a change in the nature of the activities of the Ukrainian military contingents when they are involved in decisions that do not depend on the people to do so. We know our big northern neighbor is fighting all the way, all his life, Russia hasn't had such a day that she doesn't fight. Now the blood has been flowing for over 200 years in the Caucasus and so on, they have already worked out separate decisions on this issue, which are also sometimes taken without the will of Parliament or the Russian Duma. Today, something similar is being prepared in Ukraine. See what's added? Just one word of "fight action." I mean, earlier humanitarian operations, there's counter-terrorism operations, drug trafficking operations, and so on, and today it's "fight operations." So Ukrainian children who are going to be abroad will make money to those businesses that are sending them there, exclusively taking part now beyond their will in combat operations. That's the first one. The other one. See what sources of funding for these programs? It says here: including the budget of Ukraine. And tell me, please, the UN is such an organization, the Security Council and some other organizations that make decisions on the involvement of contingents, they now have their own funding. And Ukrainian soldiers, if they get in or the soldiers get into such difficult regions, today they have to have an appropriate financial compensation, not from the government budget of Ukraine that prepared them, raised them, taught them, and at the expense of international peacekeeping organizations, can't do otherwise. Therefore, this great responsibility is not needed, as Euro has also received three, four, budgeted Euros, and now it seems that you are applauding for your victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u91	Please, Valentin Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u92	Thank you, Communist faction, Valentin Matthews. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! It has already been said that, and what is the point of this proposed bill? This is first of all changing, in fact, the concept of "peace operation" to "international peace and security operations", which we understand has a completely broader meaning, since it includes not only peacekeeping tasks, I emphasize, but also combat tasks. We think this project will fundamentally change the legal basis for operations and units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces beyond it. And what about the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of Internal and External Politics, where the principle of non-locking is enshrined. We're his.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u93	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in international mine and security operations. [[Registration number 10491]] Please vote. [[11:45:18]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 186, "BUT - "Bate" - 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 1, Communists - 0, National Party - 2-, "Reforms for the Future" - 18, non-factional - 9. Dear colleagues, it is now proposed that you consider the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on notarial action and the provision of notarial services. I am voting on the proposal to include this bill in the agenda of the day. [[Registration number 10433]] Please vote. [[11:46:08]] For 254 Decision taken. Now the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on State regulation and administration in the field of transport and road transport]] [[Registration number 10458]] Please vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda. [[11:46:42]] For 258. Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Law amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Real Estate Tax, which is different from land. Two numbers: 10451, 10451-1. Please sign in. Yes, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u94	Please pass it on to Paul’s Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u95	Andrew Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u96	Andrey Pavlovsky, faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko "The Fatherland". Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, we propose to support an alternative bill from the opposition - 10451-1. Because unlike the government, he proposes to reduce the tax burden on people with small, middle incomes. Support the now born middle class, which by taxes only chokes. In particular, the amendments to the Tax Code are proposed in the alternative bill to exclude from the taxation of residential property owned by a natural person whose total area is not greater than 240 square meters and for a residential house is 500 meters. And for a property that's more than a defined limit to apply a single tax rate of 2.7 times the minimum wage. And if the authorities are trying to tax everything that's possible and increase the amount of tax even on citizens' housing and property, then in the opposition alternative bill we're proposing to get people out of taxes that can be applied to the middle class. I therefore propose to support an alternative bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u97	Olga Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u98	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. I feel like we're about to pay for the fact that we're still alive in this world and for the air. Please wait for my colleague Bondarenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u99	Vladimir Bondarenko, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u100	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, the authorities are increasing pressure on people in every direction completely, including the housing area. I've been talking about that recently NCRE secretly, so quietly, calmly decided to raise three times the electricity tariff, if you use more than 800 kilowatt-hours per month. I think it's pressure on people who, at least a little bit out of poverty, built houses and used them there, in those houses, a little bit more than 800 kilowatt-hours a month. I pointed out that in such a case, tax cooperatives are common. Because it is only now said that they do not fall under it. And they're going to fall, they're on the same counter. I'm still pointing out that these housing manipulations, well, they can go back to bribes today. No facilities will be put into service. And this will result in people being bribed to buy the right not to register this object, not to come to the office of technical inventory. That's how you hide. Because the pressure is increasing financially. And what is housing, what is housing? This includes the building’s only building, the basement, and so forth. What about the constitutional norm regarding the irreversibility of laws? Those who have already built more than 500 feet [500 m] in use, or are there 200 feet [200 m] of housing, how can they be with them? Should they pay this tax or not? Therefore, until there is absolute clarity as to how this law will work, how it will be administered, how it will be fair to people, and not by turn-on, obviously cannot be voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u102	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, I want to protect the author of the bill, the MP of the Fatherland, a respected minister, like there, in the ostracist government, I don't know. Well, you can't be so critical. You're putting a man in nothing, the author of the law! You'll see who the author is! The author is a member of the Fatherland or whatever it's called, or "BUT," I don't know, a member of the Shadow Business, I mean a shadow government. Minister, Minister of Shadow Government, he's the author and you're smearing him on the wall! Well, you can't do that! Who will vote for you in September? We propose to include the opposition in the agenda so that the work of its author, his representative, can be carefully respected by the opposition! And then on the first reading, let's take a look. We are in favour of supporting the representative of the Fatherland, and we believe that the criticism that came out of his one party's mouth is groundless, yes. People.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u103	() [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending article 265 of the Ukrainian Property Tax Code, which is different from land (registrations 10451, 10451-1). Please vote. [[11:53:23]] For 236 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Speciality of Recognition of Double Assignment Costs. [[Registration number 10524]] Please sign up. Name, please. Yes, Olga Bodnar. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Who's it gonna be? Sergey Teryohin, please, the Faction of the Fatherland. The next one will be the Fedun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We seem to have arranged to work productively this week, and this law is, well, it's such an impression that someone in the government wrote it under the hood, it's a complete mess. Look what it says. Today, there is a benefit for any enterprise to include in the costs all costs associated with vocational training and retraining of their workers. This benefit, by the way, I reported in the distant year 1997 and it helped sort of solve the labor issues when the PTU system disappeared in fact. What is proposed by the law? Well, "Camasutra" something, look. Instead of paying for education, it is suggested that the benefits be paid, that the costs be included to support the results of informal vocational training in the workplace. What's that? What Is Informal Teaching? Is that where they make professors with two f's? Where, then, is the benefit of teaching the workers ’ profession? It's gone. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, at least scientific and expert management would have looked before such a mess was brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u105	Yes. The Fedun insists? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, this is where Sergey Teryohin was right. If we are introducing an informal, yes, vocational education, the truth has to be made clear what it is, formal vocational education loses its benefits. And one minute. If the Supreme Council is to put the matter in order of the day, it is imperative that the committee be further worked out so that it is not as we passed with you a law on the provision of coal for widows of dead miners and have done worse than they had before. And now the problem is what to do with that law. That is why I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the specificity of the recognition of the costs of the dual assignment]] [[Registration number 10524]] Please vote. [[11:56:43]] For 254 Decision taken. And now the draft Act amending article 172 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on Property Assessment]] [[Registration number 10645]] I would like to vote on the bill. Take it off, please. Sign up. Well, you might want to respond earlier. What's wrong with you being late? Vladimir Yavorowski. Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u106	I understand that with logic here, most people have problems, judging by the previous vote. But look what's in this law. This is a continuation of the Law that you have already included, on the valuation of property, in the order of the day. What happened? The bill was passed by the majority, a law that resulted in 12 rating companies remaining in the Ukraine market, and they were all given a certificate of instruction by Mr. Lavrinovich, from Ministu. Thousands of companies have not received those training certificates. After that, Mr. Azarov must have regretted something there in the "presence" place, and by the decree of the government he repealed the law passed by the majority. Then they pass the law, and they say, "What hoops have passed this law?" Well, these hugs. They're passing a law that I'm supposed to be correcting. And it wasn't here, because for tax purposes, some estimate of a private valuation company is going to be used under this law, but not below the estimated value, which is going to be determined how do you think? The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I mean, roughly speaking, there is a clear violation of all the principles of independent evaluation activity and, roughly speaking, there is an excess of Kabmin’s authority, since Kabmin cannot interfere with the taxation system under article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the clarification of the Constitutional Court accordingly. That's why it's a mess again, not a bill. It is the illegal decree of Azar concerning the prohibition of the law that you have passed, beautiful ones, that is to say, let it continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u107	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u108	Please give the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u110	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders I sincerely thank my colleague Arjevetina, and I think I'm going to express a common position with him, as we now see it, that purely corrupt proposals are again directed at how to take more from people. Think about it, ever since the government introduced 12 companies that were only involved in a particular clan, 12 firms were doing the whole thing all over the country, everything stopped. You're all barking at people, don't you know that? You have enemies today among the notaries in addition to the common people. You have enemies today among those people. And now you're proposing to further strengthen the impact of the tax administration or service, as it is now called, because you want to increase the tax base, not on the basis of, as previously stated in the law, on the basis of the price specified in the contract of sale, but not below the estimated value of such an object, calculated by the authority authorized to carry out such an assessment according to the law, but at the cost determined in the order in which you set it under the direction of our principal. Well, can you do that? I believe that the bill that followed and the amendments to the Second Law on Change in Privatization are also a regression. Because of this, I urge: First, remember that there will be a nominal vote of this law, and secondly, I consider it simply a continuation of banditry and a solution to the government’s hands. They need to be tied together and preferably as bound by either Yuri Lucenko or Julius Timoshenko. These hands should then be tied together. And the law has to be thrown in the trash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act amending article 172 of the Ukrainian Tax Code is put to the vote. [[on Property Assessment]] Registration number 10645, I remind you again. [[12:02:15]] For 239. Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 32 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please, let's continue our work. Dear colleagues, now draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the operation of payment systems and the development of non-cash accounts]] [[10656]] Who insists on this? One man is Stanislav Arjevitin. Next, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to give an order to our committee today to consider this bill on electronic money. Taking into account that in February the Supreme Council placed in order the day-to-day equivalent of my e-money bill, it's 8277 and, in fact, more than 70 percent of my text if it was already present in the text that the National Bank proposed regarding e-money. We have no differences as to what electronic money is, such as a unit of value stored on an electronic device, and it is the money owed by an impersonator. We don't have any differences about e-money issues, electronic money repayments. We don't have any differences that electronic money is to be issued exclusively by banking institutions, not by any legal persons, or any processing centers, because it's an issue of money. We have no distinction as to whether the requirements of the electronic money system as well as the subject of the release and repayment are established by the National Bank, so we actually have the authentic text. The only thing I gave a little earlier. And I asked the committee to consider this bill together, because it's essentially an alternative. And I'm asking very much for this to be taken into account today, and when we're looking at the National Bank's draft in the session room, if there are, well, two or the same, or the same, because we, once again, I'm underlining, there are no fundamental differences. And what the National Bank needs to do right now is set up its electronic payment system, and really get control of the electronic money issue, because it's all central banks of different countries, it's the right position. And you have to do the electronic money routing, because it's, again, the emission money. So the bill is right, right. The only request, once again, is that we give the commission to look at this bill together in the context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u114	Yuri Miroshnichenko. No, I'm filming Yuri the Merchant. Dear colleagues, there is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the functioning of payment systems and the development of non-cash accounts. [[10656]] And I ask the committee to consider at the same time with Bill 8277, Stanislav Arzvetin, so that when we discuss this in the session room, we can find support for a project. Please vote. [[12:38:00]] For the 250. Decision taken. Now the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying procedures and shortening the period of eligibility for land. [[Registration number 10019]] Please sign in. Ivan Kirilenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! It is as if the law sounds as good and as if its contents are the same. To remind you, it is proposed to simplify order and shorten the terms of acquisition by citizens and legal persons of ownership or use, including land rights. In particular, from 30 days to 10 days, the withdrawal decision is reduced, from three weeks to five days, the conclusion deadline is reduced, from two weeks to five days, and so on. It's not bad. But why can’t simple people, hundreds of thousands, get the right to land and the right to make decisions for two years? It's different. We've got a lot of suspicions, who's that for? Isn't that the opera that created the Earth Bank? It's hundreds of thousands of acres of the best land. The pattern can be quite simple. The bank’s capitalization was, as you recall, voted by land. Nonsense. The premiums from this bank for who, for the chosen ones? Plus, this law about speeding up and simplifying all procedures. For whom? That's the question that our faction will not explicitly support and ask not to support other political forces. Make it simpler, Your Honor, the decision of the government of Timoshenko free of charge, free processing of documents concerning the privatization of already allocated land, the ones we call dowry areas. [[No. 844]] The language for 6 million people, multiply by voters, and you can make decisions, go to the polls quietly, supporting people if you think for people. We have great suspicion that this law is not for ordinary people. We can't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u116	Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u117	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I feel that this law can make things easier for the common people. Because let's face it, people who are uneasy get permission to land within the set time limit. If a person is simple, he may have some problems. I agree with Ivan Grigorovitch that there is no flawless legislative initiative. But there are two very important points that may need to be taken into account and incorporated into the agenda of this bill. In particular, if you are interested in receiving land, if you do not get permission from the relevant authority within a specified period of time to develop a land-use facility project or if you do not have a reasoned refusal to do so, you have the right to actually order the project. Who's this for? It's just for a simple person. So this reduces bureaucratic procedures and bureaucratic possibilities when you don't have a refusal, please, then you have a right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on simplifying procedures and shortening the period of acquisition of land rights is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:42:04]] For 229 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 184, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, Communists – 0, National Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-fractional – 8. Dear National Deputies! If it's really about simplifying land ownership, especially land ownership, we have to look at this project and make a transparent decision, because people today are yelling the most that they can't form a land plot, and they're just indignant. But there will be no underwater currents here, only on one condition. So we need a committee to work hard, and we've been reading this bill, not a grab, just like we've done right now. Now draft law on the development of cooperation in agriculture in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10257]] Please sign in. Let's see your name. Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u119	Please pass the word to Lechchenko, a faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u120	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u121	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! As a result of the implementation of land reform and its constituent parts of irrigation and the privatization of agricultural land, the agricultural farm is extremely fine, which prevents farmers from producing on average 4 hectares of high-efficiency agricultural production using powerful agricultural techniques and advanced agrarian technologies. And in 2000, the restructuring of collective agricultural enterprises, which led to the destruction of large and medium-sized farms, which were the systematic structures of rural areas and provided jobs for a large part of Ukraine’s rural population. As a result of these transformations, Ukraine’s agriculture has gone down the worst of all possible paths of development, with an almost total lease on agricultural land for which agricultural farmers, using foreign private land, do not care about its fertility. In view of Ukraine’s large numbers of private farmers, farmers, and natural persons, agricultural producers, it is appropriate to promote the formation and direct participation of the cooperative segment of the agricultural market. At the same time, its formation is restrained by the imperfections of legislation, the weak material base, the lack of qualified personnel. In connection with this, Ukrainian national deputies Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko, I, Vladimir Leschenko, and Marina Perestenko passed the bill. Please support its inclusion in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u122	Andrey Pavlovski, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherhood." Smitch will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u123	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please pass the word to Vladimir Dmitri Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u124	Please, Bondarenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. You know, when I met this bill, it was like good things were written. In fact, a lot of it is taken from the theoretical approaches that once learned, from the early 20s to the early 30s, by Chayanov. Today, it is used by many who are in a cooperative movement in agriculture abroad. But I do have a question. Here goes a dozen more with the remaining bills coming from the Communist Party, it's obviously some kind of pyar action by the Communist Party before the election. Why did these projects not come about 2-3 years ago, or 4 years ago? Why are they not a reality today? Because most of you today, you could get these bills to just turn, not into pyar action, but into natural projects that work. And maybe a cooperative project would be effective for our agricultural cooperatives. Although cooperatives have always been involved in the work of Communists, where the slave work of millions of people has been put on their knees for several decades, they have not been able to leave the colonies because they have no passports, they have never seen the sea, they have not been abroad, because they have not been allowed to go there. They simply performed a slavelike function in the service of that authority, which called themselves Communist. But there were some organized forms of farming, but they were slave. I don't want us to go back to these forms. And I would like you to demonstrate your sincerity, gentlemen of the Communists. Get out of the majority, which today demonstrates the fascinatingness of the whole sectors of the economy of Ukraine, the vast cities, businesses and other spheres of life, including agriculture, including your one of the Latin Funders who owns thousands of hectares of land in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u126	Yes, Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u127	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I personally ask all MPs to support this important bill. Because agriculture has an extreme need in mind to re-establish or re-create cooperative activities. Because cooperative activity is one of the forms that, by the way, I want to tell him that it is actively, successfully functioning today in countries such as Italy, France, Spain, which are the leaders of the European Union for Agricultural Production. So one of the Richies or even the forms of cooperation of small, small farm and private farming is the same cooperative. That's why we need to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to include in the agenda a bill on the development of co-operation in Ukraine's agriculture is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10257]] Please vote. [[12:48:49]] For-54 The decision is not taken. The factions. There's no motive. The Party of Regions is 26, BUT is Fatherland is 1, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense is 1, Communists are 25, People's Party and Reforms for the Future is 0, non-factional is 1. Now the draft Law on Local and Regional Self - Rule in Ukraine. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda the bill on local and regional self-government in Ukraine. Please. Take off the vote, please. Let's see your name. Yes, Demidko, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u129	Please pass the word to Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u130	Sergei Gordienko, please microphone. The next Hanoszczak will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u131	Dear Chairman! Colleagues, voters! The more the bourgeois authority, whatever its beauty, spoke of supporting local self - rule, the more the attack on the rights of local self - government is taking place. And people are getting rid of the rule of our state. Today, self - government in Ukraine has been the only thing left to do with self - control. Ukrainian factions in a series of anti-crisis bills are proposing a bill on local and regional self-government in Ukraine. The main task of the bill is to fully comply with the requirements of the European Charter of Local Self-Government and to create conditions for the full development of local and regional self-government through the recognition by regional and district councils of the right to create their own executive bodies and a significant limitation of the powers of local public administrations, which can only coordinate the activities of public authorities and local authorities at regional and local levels to monitor the legality of acts of local authorities and regional self-government in the relevant territory. In addition, the bill aims to improve the distribution of powers between local regional authorities and government authorities. Clearly determine the mechanisms for delegation and distribution of authority between executive authorities and local governments and regional self - government among local and regional authorities. To clarify the responsibility of the authorities and officials of the local regional self - government, the authorities of the local government. Reduce opportunities for corruption in local and regional governments. Strengthen requirements for members of local and regional authorities. More stringent demands are made for the head of the village, village, city council, as it is a key figure in the local self - government system, including the ability to solve local problems. The adoption of the bill will allow for the creation of a proper legislative framework.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u132	Ten seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u133	effective functioning of local self-government. I'm asking you to back me up on behalf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u134	Thank you. Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u135	Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u136	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u137	Vladimir Bondarenko, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear friends! I'd like to pay attention to those who listen to us or watch us, and especially to the fact that you can't be in the majority that today's radically different vision has with you the prospect of developing the same village. You remember that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko introduced agricultural cooperatives, funded it by the government, and this faction, which is now the majority, the Party of Regions stopped funding. Milky small factories, cooperatives, agricultural processing cooperatives and so on -- it went away, it stopped, now you're introducing a bill. Next bill. What you do not know is that a proposal was made that all three whales with local self - government — namely, finance, property, and land — be handed over to the village councils, city councils. 12,000 such councils had a normal funding system thanks to a new budgetary approach when they had normative funding. Why are you introducing this bill today, being in this majority, which has done everything to ensure that rural self - rule and other self - rule are destroyed? Today we have a destroyed system, a village, a city that has its own councils, no finances, it's run by so-called treasury, it's in Ukrainian, it's "knowledge." Today we know that all the lands have been taken to the peasants and townspeople into the so-called state fund that is now decomposing this. And we also know that property has been taken away. So today, we might have to go back to this law, but we didn't have to destroy what was proposed by the "papermakers," as the great organizer of the government of Ukraine today calls it. The Papermen then took a normal step towards playing self-governance, today you demonstrate before the elections and your desire. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u138	A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Local and Regional Self-Government in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10025]] Please vote. [[12:54:50]] For-35 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. The Party of Regions – 2, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 3, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 3, Communists – 25, People's Party, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, non-fractional – 2. Now the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws regarding the militia of migration control. May I put it to a vote? There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on migration control militias. [[Registration number 10599]] [[12:55:42]] For-29 Decision taken. No, I'm sorry. Now the draft Law on State Support for Scientific Production in Ukraine. Please sign up. Names, please. Lilia Grigorovich, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Please, Oleg Lazko. Valentin Matthews will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u139	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you, Mrs. Lilia Grigorovitch, for the opportunity to speak. Now we're looking at a bill to support scientific production. It would seem that the right bill would not seem, but it would certainly be needed. But the author of this bill, I'm not going to call it a name for not having a replica, is voting in the morning to give the government the opportunity to borrow $3 billion in credit in China. I want to focus on our electorate, which will be spent on these three billion Chinese dollars: the provision of 3 agricultural projects, namely: the purchase of Chinese plant protection products, seeds for agricultural crops, agricultural tools and other agricultural products in Ukraine, the cultivation of land, the processing of organic mineral fertilizers and so on. I'm asking. 3 billion dollars, why don't we direct this money to the Kharkiv Tractor Factory to drive in Ukrainian fields instead of Chinese; why don't we use these billions of dollars to support the Herson Combine Factory to make hersonic combines run in Ukrainian fields rather than Chinese; why don't we use this money to support the scientific institutions in the Academy of Agricultural Sciences to use agricultural materials instead of importing Chinese potatoes and now Chinese materials will also import Chinese Greek? That's what our state does, our power: destroy their own manufacturer, destroy their own scientific enterprises, feed their own scientific potential, feed their Chinese, create jobs for Chinese people, not for their Ukrainian peasants, not for their scientists. It's a disgrace to the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u140	Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Next up will be Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u141	Please give the floor to one of the authors of the Bill, Alla Alexandrovni Alexandrovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u142	Alla Alexandrovska, please give your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, there was a blinker who did not want to call the author of the bill. I have written with Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko, along with Alexei Baburin and Sergey Chrapov. I think you will all agree that if we really want the people of Ukraine to be poor, the people of Ukraine should be able to work, earn and receive good money. Some blinkers don't talk about it, they talk about raising factories. Then the question arises why their President Yushchenko, why their Prime Minister Timoshenko did not do so. Today, we are proposing a real state policy that will support fiscal financing for those enterprises that introduce new technologies and new ways of production so that we can produce products that are competitive in the world markets so that we can actually make money for everyone who works in the workplace and for the employer who gives this work and for the State who gets the income from all of this. So that's what our bill is for. The Communists have repeatedly introduced such bills to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but unfortunately the majority did not support them. And, Mikhail Vasiljevic, please, do not wave your pen, do not deprive your colleagues of the faction of the Party of the Regions of voting as they wish. Because the city of Harkov is also concerned with Zaporozhye, Donetsk, Dnepropetrovska, the industrial potential we want to work for Ukraine. So please stop shaking and stop waving. Let's vote and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u144	Yuri Hanustzak is referring the right to speak to Andrija Pavlovski, faction "BUT – "Fatherhood". Please calm down, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u145	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Respectable compatriots! Well, it's like a law with the right title: "On State Support for Scientific Productions" and, of course, it needs to be supported. And I'd like to point out that right now we have science and scientific production in the full range, they get the coins, and they would have to get 3-4 percent of the gross domestic product, like in the neighbouring European countries. And the good thing about it is, 40 percent of the pension is offered to add to the scientists and to those who work in scientific production. But at the same time, I would like to point out that this would have to be done, not by a separate law, but by changes to pension legislation. And on the other hand, I would like to point out that this is another law with both propagandists from Simonek, a party of Communists. So why do you make such laws while in the anti-national, oligarchic majority, along with the Party of Regions? I don't understand. Get out of this anti-national majority, do not serve oligarchs, for the real communists are on barricades, not in the service of criminal oligarchs! And the three-story estates don't build for themselves. And it turns out that now, before the elections, the people of the Communists were mentioned. Then don't change Carl Marx's Capital to Janukovitch's capital, and then people will believe you. Yes, it turns out that: you serve the majority, your relatives occupy the highest positions and the most bread in the customs office, in the other organs. It's your quota for the fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u146	Turn off the microphone! Turn off the microphone! Dear colleagues, the draft Law on State Support for Scientific Production in Ukraine is being discussed, not the activities of one faction or another. Please! The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on State Support for Scientific Production in Ukraine is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10056]] [[13:02:57]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Law on Vocational and Technical Education and some other legislative acts to improve the training of workers in the workplace. [[Registration number 10058]] Please sign in. Perhaps we should, your honors, continue our sessions because we have sat on the agenda of the bill. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Vladimir Danilenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u147	Please pass the word to Danilenko, Ukrainian national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u148	Please. The next one will be Eugene Kirilchuk speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u149	Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, distinguished national MPs, professional and technical education in Ukraine, which is basic in the formation and promotion of labour, has long been in conflict with the current and promising needs of society. One reason for this is the lack of effective public policy in the area of training workers in the workplace and, in particular, the creation and maintenance of socio-economic unwarranted imbalances in the preparation of staff with higher education and workers. We believe that the main disadvantages of public policy in the area of labour training, which require a legislative solution, are the lack of well-founded, conceptual principles for the preparation of labour personnel based on the real social needs of the need for human resources to modernize society and balance the interests of different social institutions fairly; the inefficiency of organizational social partnership processes in the area of the preparation of labour personnel at the national and local levels, which are intended to unite and harmonize the efforts of the State, education, employers; and the lack of cost-accounting for skilled workers. workers in vocational and technical institutions based on the complexity of the science of the professions and the final results of the work of the educational institutions. Further, the inadequacy of the outdated, morally and physically worn-out material and technical base of vocational and technical education is the requirements of the modern stage of establishing an innovative economy. Taking into account the strategic importance and critical relevance of the high-skilled labour force in the economic reforms phase, the proposed project is of paramount importance in order to increase industrial production in all sectors.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u150	Thank you. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u151	A system of vocational and technical education for economic needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u152	Thank you. Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk. Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u153	Please pass the word Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u154	Faction "BUT" is "Paternity." Oleg Lazko will be next. Carmazin gives him the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u155	Vladimir Bondarenko, Yulia Timoshenko, Fatherland. Well, I want to draw once again the attention of citizens who listen to us or look at us from this room to the extraordinary cynicism that's shown here in the consideration of issues that seem to be pieces of the Communist Party Program. Well, tell me, please, your majority has not recently voted on the increase in retirement age, and now you're talking about young people who are going to graduate from vocational school going anywhere. Where are they going? They will go to enterprises that are now closed or in the hands of oligarchs who do not support any of your bills. Now they're going to go to the passersby -- Ahmtova, Jaroslav and other oligarchs, so do you think someone will be doing professional technical education with them? No, they're the leftovers that are left over by the age of 70 to raise their retirement age, they're going to continue to work there, and these young people are going to stay behind. This is one position. The other one. You're talking about how high schools can be funded today. But you won't get a vote from this faction of the Party of Regions, and you're offering to raise the scholarship by 40 percent every year! It's a lie, it's not gonna happen! Do not buy with your populism, as the present - day president of Ukraine Janukovic bought when no promise was made when the Constitutional Court gave him the right not to keep these promises. What you're doing there today, the schools will receive a pension, a salary raised! There will be no such thing, and there will be no reenactment of vocational education as long as there is this power in Ukraine today. She thinks only of herself, not of young people. Today these young people go abroad with packs, so your populist laws are not supported by your allies in the Party of the Regions. Count this. Perhaps you should switch directions, get out of this majority, perhaps people will give you back a little trust. That's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u156	Oleg Lazko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u157	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Millions of Ukrainian families get up in the morning, lie down at night, and wonder where to employ their children. A large part of them cannot go to jail because they have no money to bribe, and they have no influential parents. And that's why these kids from simple families are the only thing left to do is go to vocational schools. But where to go when they're gone? When the schools are in place, today the banks, today the tax palaces, today the centers of employment of the palace are being erected. As a result, simple workers from simple families have no place to get an education, and children remain unfulfilled. But if they are lucky enough to get an education, where will they work? When, in 20 years, Ukraine has been transformed into an import site of all kinds, and as a result, we feed the importer instead of feeding our people and giving them the opportunity to work. Therefore, the question needs to be addressed in a complex way. This is to radically restrict access to the country, to give cheap loans, low taxes, to deregulation of the economy, to change this power, which stands for the rights of importers. Then our millions of people who flee abroad today in search of a better destiny will be able to learn and work and feed their families. With this power, unfortunately, that will not happen, and we see in those bills that are currently being voted in Parliament. I want to get the attention of millions of Ukrainian peasants again. Today, an anti - Ukrainian law on borrowing $3 billion in China was passed in parliament. For this money, they're going to buy Chinese Greek, Chinese family material and everything else in Chinese, and our people are going to lose their jobs. For this, so do those who are so stingy for the people who have been in this Parliament for 20 years. Gently.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Vocational and Technical Education and some other legislative acts to improve the training of workers in the labour professions is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10058]] [[13:11:06]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Yes, honourable national MPs, now draft the Law to state guarantees for the development of fundamental and applied science in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10060]] Please sign up. Yeah, what's your name? Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u159	The author of the bill is Alle Alexandrowski, the author of the bill more loyally because the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u160	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! This bill was commissioned by the Communist faction to develop Petra Nikolaevich and me. I report as the author of this bill. The position of communists is known to be stable, consistent with the need to increase funding for scientific and scientific and technological activities. Today, virtually Ukraine is at risk of being removed from all civilisation processes if we do not stimulate scientific and technological progress in Ukraine. We understand that the development of fundamental and applied science requires considerable resources. And we believe that the necessary resources for this should be channelled and a certain public policy should be pursued. Should it be said that if the 20-year stagnation of our science continues, we will lose not only the personnel and creative workers in science, but also the national intelligence. We assume that it is the responsibility of the State to create conditions for the development of science, to set development priorities 5-10 years ahead. It will, of course, provide adequate funding. All of this is provided in the bill, and all of these mechanisms are scheduled. Therefore, we ask for the support of this bill. And with regard to those so-called " ordinary workers and workers " and their appearance, showing their identity to this particular category of citizens, I would like to say that a respected person wakes up, works, think, then perhaps you will remember that the Communist faction voted against the so-called reforms in pension legislation. We opposed the decline in the financing of science. Remember when your Prime Minister was stagnating science, when your President was pursuing a policy in which public institutions stopped funding, scientific developments were therefore frozen, as were the frozen salaries of all employees. You must be ashamed to go to this rostrum and speak today on behalf of those you have made poor, severing their property and on account of that property, becoming rich people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u162	Demidko, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing. Vladimir Bondarenko, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherhood"
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u163	I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u164	Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u165	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT is the Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen, in general, these issues are settled by already valid legislation and I consider this bill purely as a pianist project, because there is nothing in fact there, there is no guarantee. Well, I don't understand at all what "political guarantees for the development of science" is, and we also have to divide applied and fundamental. Because fundamental really needs to be supported by the state. Because there's no telling what's going to happen on the way out. For example, these are clearly commercial projects and you have to look at these directions completely separately. In this respect, the project is simply unprofessional. Next. The only normal guarantee would be to fix a certain amount in the form of a science development fund, which is part of a government budget, a special fund or a general fund, as we did for the regional development fund, it doesn't have it here. Well, the main document that's being applied here is "The Basics of State and Science Policy," well, it's a few articles dedicated to it that aren't related. But in fact, the wholeness of the document system, in this respect, doesn't have any bills, so I'm looking at this project as just not professionally prepared. Because, in fact, in order for our science to develop, it needs to be done so that it doesn't get embarrassing in front of the scientists in the presentation of this project. In fact, this project is such a work of art, "Mr. Sculpov is on his knee." Well, you can't take these projects because we have to raise them to scientists and they should be proud that we have a tick in our head and we can make good documents, not just like we just voted. But they won't vote for you because they'll see you can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to include in the agenda a draft law on State guarantees for the development of fundamental and applied science in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10060]] [[13:16:47]] For-30 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, now the draft Act amending Chapter XV of the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[on the insurance internship]] [[Registration number 10496]] Please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Ivan Stojko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. Then it's Cibenko. The lens passes the right of introduction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u167	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainian citizens, you remember last year in the person of Tihypak, the government majority told us that when they adopt the changes to pension legislation, they will be given higher pensions, social justice will be restored, people will receive pensions depending on their working age, working conditions, and so on. Then, in July, the year was fulfilled as the law was passed at two o’clock in the evening, and where was the government’s promised social justice? It wasn't there. There are muddy pensioners who get 20,000 pensions a month and there are millions of Ukrainian pensioners, like my mom, including who gets 940 dollars a month of pension. That's social justice. That is, the pension reform, which the so-called pension reform was carried out by the government, is not a pension reform, it's a pension genocide aimed at reducing the number of pensioners to pick up those miserable people who have worked their whole lives and earning their last penny at their age. And that's why it's urgent today at the time of the review of pension legislation. We're demanding a reduction in the retirement age for women to 55 years, a reduction in the retirement age that gives them the right to receive a pension. That would be social justice! And the difference between the minimum pension and the maximum pension is three times. And the last. Here a representative of the Communists tells how they protect people. And I'm going to talk about an anecdote that goes around people. She brings Simonenko to her mother's house and says, "Mom, this is my house, this is the reception room, this is the bedroom." My mother says to him, "Oh, Petya, how good it is! But if only the commies hadn't come back! For they will blow us away." What people say about you! You've been sitting in Parliament for 20 years, you're eating fat, you're exploiting people, and you're not protecting them! And only.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u168	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u169	Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Well, first of all, I'd like to answer the previous speaker. I feel so much better that it looks so much better when outside the walls of the Supreme Council, the cow on the counter leads, the pig pulls the barrels outside the walls of the Supreme Council -- then it came out a little better. As far as the bill is concerned. You know, the pension sector, it's that area that's being regulated, it's being reformed for 20 years and it's getting worse and worse for people to work with. And especially after reforming the pension system, people like Tihypco and his company did. We all remember the acceptance of these changes to the law. This was done at night. I mean, as the first deputy chairman of the committee that we've ever tried to correct this document by the committee's secretariat. But unfortunately, we failed, did not vote in the hall. What is involved in this bill? The point is that the retirement age, which the faction of the Company of Ukraine, at least in the next call, will necessarily return to the previous level. This is how it is raised in stages, and the work experience was raised one - minute, that is, 10 years for women and for men. The proposed bill proposes to restore the pace of the increase in the length of the insurance system. And most of all. I recently, June 1, attended a board meeting of the Pension Fund. Some pensioners prided themselves on the fact that the average pension in Ukraine today amounts to 1,399 dollars. But as minimal as it is, it's not enough for people who've worked 40 to 50 years. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u170	Andrew Pavlovsky, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u171	Got it. Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Dear fellow countrymen, news from the European Court of Justice Just now, the European Court has declared the imprisonment of Yuri Lucenka politically motivated! The same will be true of Yuli Timoshenko! Shame on this criminal authority, Yanukovich, who is only persecuting his opponents! And about the bill. You know, this bill, even though it's by Vladimir Litwin, it's a relief to our people. Because of the dullness of the night, we were given a minimum of 10 years of service by the authorities. Women now have to work for 25 years and men have 30. So this bill does this, but gradually over the years it increases. Well, that's one way to go, but it's better than what Tihypco did last night. So the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u172	Yes, distinguished national MPs! Indeed, I have put in place a draft of this law after long-standing appeals and communication with people. The decision is made that it does not allow people who have a significant job, to work on their pension, and to receive an adequate pension, especially in rural areas where there are no working productions. It is therefore proposed that a step - by - step scale be introduced to enable people to adapt to the current Pension Insurance Act. So, dear colleagues, you have a decision to make, although it is obvious that this proposal will not be supported. That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft Law amending Chapter XV of the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine "On State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance" for inclusion in the agenda. [[on the insurance internship]] [[Registration number 10496]] Please vote. [[13:24:15.]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Thank you. The factions? Please. Region Party 6, "BUT - Fatherland" – 12, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 13, communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 3. Well, I don't think there's any need for comments. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the promotion of electricity generation from alternative sources of energy]] [[Registration number 10183]] I'm voting on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. Please vote. Take off the vote, please. Please sign in. Yes, the names. Sergey Sobolev, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u173	Bondarenko's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u174	Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u175	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. Strange works are done in this power plant. Do you remember when in this room the majority, who serve oligarchs and those who represent them in district energy companies, wrote down 24 billion money collected from citizens and not transferred to the state budget and wrote them down? Now, look what's going on. Recently, Ahmtova, who were granted the right to export electricity from Ukraine, also received the right to purchase electricity in the state of Ukraine by 30 percent less than citizens buy it. All of this, sorry, lies in the pocket of a member of the Party of the Regions, who is the largest oligarch in Ukraine so far, in truth, another is growing up as a family, but he is still the largest. Next, what's going on in Ukraine. We have today a three-fold increase in electricity tariff for those who consume more than 800 kilowatts per hour. The famous Andrija Klava project on green-tar oil production in Crimea cost 200 million dollars from the State Budget to pay for the loan she received abroad. I think this bill has one purpose. Someone in this party has either created or created power to produce electricity from biogas. And our fields, which someone else hopes to sow with wheat, Greek or anything else, will be sown by special cultures that work biogas, are generally oil crops that can be easily used to produce such biogas and so on. So this is a lobbyist project by the Party of the Regions. Of course, if it were a state that was based on the principles of law and justice, it would have to be done, because today the whole world is working on the things being played.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u176	Jaroslav Suhiy, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u177	I don't even know if there's a man in the room today or outside the hall who doesn't understand how important energy-saving technology is for Ukraine, and how important it is for Ukraine to get rid of the illusion that the underprivileged leaders of the government have put on it. So I don't even want to respond. I didn't expect to hear so much nonsense today from opposition, so much cynicism, so much primitive lies. Who knows: both Greece and the cultivation of the Cabanas in Kiev, which they did not care about. This bill must be included in the order of the day. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, what is the right opposition today? Remember, you and I were in this session room, well, there wasn't a procedure like that. You remember, any bill could have been discussed, argued, understood, found out. I don't know, it just so happens that we've been swept away by the wall of all these bills when we can't even figure out, find out, or maybe Bondarenko's rights, or maybe there, really, some lobbyist interests, and we don't see them, or we don't understand them. So in the future, I think it's going to be the seventh call, and I think in the day-to-day formation, there's going to be a clear procedure, how and how we're looking at some kind of bill. Look, there's a special stretch coming from the opposition, and I don't understand why they're doing this when they're talking about getting into the agenda. You turn a few pages further, you'll see how many important social bills await our decision. Why do you do this on your conscience? And this bill I propose to include in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u178	Thank you. Pauline. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u179	Thank you. Please pass the word to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u180	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u181	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Those who today, and not only today in this room, are opposed to the decisions that the Supreme Council has taken in its time to stimulate the development of alternative and renewable energy in Ukraine, in fact, are not opposed to alternative and renewable energy, not against the so-called green tariff. They are in favour, but for what, the monopoly on Ukraine's dependence on other countries, first of all, from the Russian Federation in terms of energy supplies, first of all, gas. And this criticism of this kind of destructive nature of alternative energy is actually called upon to please one of the strategic partners. Because you know how the Russian Federation works actively with Germany, with France, with other countries of the European Union to increase the share of gas supply in the countries of the European Union. This is done in a variety of ways, ranging from politics to politics. But the countries of the European Union are doing everything they can to ensure that some of the renewable alternative methods, the electricity extraction methodology, are as much energy as possible, because that's what's called energy diversification. I would very much hate to believe that political struggle and conjunctural interest today, on the electoral campaign's electoral day, is blinding the eyes and understanding that Ukraine should develop green energy. It's all about promoting electricity and biogas, everything that's renewable, and what Ukraine can still get is positive. The critics criticize the monopoly on other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity is put to the vote. [[on the promotion of electricity generation from alternative sources of energy]] [[Registration number 10183]] [[13:32:03]] For 265 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity. [[on the organization of checks on farm subjects]] [[Registration number 10462]] Well, please, talk to me. I don't want that to be the case. Today you're training, tomorrow others will be training. Well, we found some compromise! Please sign in. We'll discuss it when it's included in the agenda, but you're right. Please, Vladimir Moses. Oleg Lazko. Then Vladimir Yavorowski will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u183	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't think you quite accept the wishes of MPs to discuss draft laws. It's not about training or delaying the process. The point is that Parliament is very often -- and you've been talking about it today -- the laws first vote, not reading, as in the case of the supply of coal to the miners' widows, and then they don't know what to do with them. So it's important to discuss those bills that we're reading, so that Ukrainian citizens know that there's an acceptance here and they're finally aware of the MPs. With regard to this bill, the organization of checks on farm subjects. Dear national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine, we take first place in the world by the number of taxes and by the number of vetting bodies and procedures. A normal person who, of course, is not a member of the Prime Minister's family or the President's or a member of the MP's, in order to get permission to set up kiosks on a commercial basis, or to start a small business, it takes years to go to different establishments, get permits, pay bribes to get these permits. Literally half an hour ago, I was approached by a bandage manufacturer, 500 people working in businesses in the Cherkas region and Kiev, making bandages. The company stands for two months because the relevant government service does not permit the certification of these bandages. Five hundred people have lost their jobs, their livelihoods, and their families have nothing to prepare. That's the problem with our country: we have to radically reduce the number of checks, the number of permits, the number of licenses that normal, simple people can't get because they can't support the state and they can't do anything because they can't pay bribes. The deregulation of the economy, the reduction in the number of taxes -- that's what our country needs, for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u184	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Grivkowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u185	I was willing to speak, but she's very much asking for the words of Xenius Leppin, and I can't say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u186	Xenia Lapina's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u187	Good afternoon! Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!" Thank you very much, dear colleague Yavorowski. I'm noting that when we look at this bill on the committee, we actually support it as a basis. And I believe that the whole opposition is now to support this bill together. It's very symbolic that it's the majority representative, but unfortunately only one has noticed that today's biggest problem with government control is being made by the power structures. Today they do not check as much tax as we have fought there for many years, once arranged as much force! And in fact, Mr. Smith's bill, it's designed to reduce the number of tests by the force itself and actually remove them from the process, in fact, directly, because they have a completely different form of work: they have to do the investigation, not the tests of economic activity. Today all the small business complains that, on the one hand, there's a moratorium on checks, as if tax collectors are standing in a corner like they're here for nothing, but they're going to the prosecutor's office. What's she gonna do? There's nothing at all. They go and check the farm activities on the laurels. There goes the police, organized crime goes, well, I mean, the fight against organized crime, and they check the work in the larceny. What they do there is unknown. And so on. So in fact, today, the force has turned into a kind of tiny little money pusher from a small business. And this has to be stopped immediately. That is why we support the Smith bill, and we need to unite all around us in order to bring in some basic order. It's never been like this before.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u188	Yes, Grivkowski. He's refusing. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u189	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you, Xena Lapinius, for supporting the bill. Dear friends, I note that this bill cannot be seen as a solution to the particular problem that we have, unfortunately, we have, unfortunately, it inhibits, unfortunately, it creates obstacles for our businesses or our people who are able to do anything, even if they produce something. So we should, in principle, make a fundamental decision in that regard to minimize any pressure on any enterprise, on any entity that creates economic benefits in the real sector for our country, thereby filling the budget, thereby increasing Ukraine's wealth. That is why I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to take advantage of the possibility of introducing such bills 10461 and 10542 in the following consideration. 10461 is an amendment to the Tax Code, which also regulates this procedure for verifications, and 10542 is a bill that amends the search and search activities. Because it can't be that out of six law enforcement agencies, everyone's doing economics. Why the economy? Because there's money, there's bribes, there's pressure on entrepreneurs. That's why I thought, and I'm going to convince everyone, we need to take out any authority other than the Tax Inspectorate, who has the right to inspect the holding of an economic entity. If a crime is detected in the course of a tax inspection or there is evidence that it is the subject of a review by the Security Service, only then does it have the right to intervene. Not what they've turned into today, when the Security Service enters any enterprise, starting with the manufacturer small to large and checking, and creating some problems. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight in the Field of Economic Activity is put to the vote. [[on the organization of checks on farm subjects]] [[Registration number 10462]] [[13:39:58]] For 297 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Law on State Monopoly for the Production and Implementation of Alcohol, Alcohol and Tobacco. Please sign up. Eugene Kzarkov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u191	The distinguished people's deputies, the bill signed by the leader of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Simonenka, as well as the members of the Ukraine's Marmazov, Alexandrovsky and Tzarkov Company, are committed to a public settlement of the market for alcohol and tobacco products. In short, I wanted to break apart the three myths that exist with regard to the monopolies. First of all, the fact that the monopolies belong only to the socialist countries. You know, the myth develops as soon as the alcohol monopolies exist in most developed countries, such as Canada, in more United States states, as well as Finland, Norway, Macedonia, Bulgaria and more. The second component is, of course, the protection of the nation. You know, according to Minhravda, in one year, 40 thousand people are killed by bad alcohol, forgeries, and alcohol abuse in the country. That is to say, it is a largely undeclared war against its people. The third problem is child alcoholism. It's not a secret for any of you to go to Khreshtick or Derebassovska in Odessa or Lviv, that is, kids today with Longer bottles with beer everywhere. Accordingly, according to WHO data again, it is regrettable that Ukraine has achieved one first place in 20 years of independence: child alcoholism. The third and one of the most important is the economic aspect. You know that when the draft Tax Code was discussed, private alcohol monopolies claimed that they were making a very large amount of money. In the Chamber of Deputies there are very many lobbyists of alcohol, they are in almost every faction, except I assure you, the factions of the Company of Ukraine. So they boasted that they put about 5 billion bracelets into the budget for the year. In order for the ratio of figures to be understood, according to experts, if an alcohol and tobacco monopolie is introduced, only in the first year will the budget receive 75 billion dollars of direct payments. Accordingly, in view of the fact that we are protecting the health of the nation, given that we are increasing our budget income, that is clearly the norm to be applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u192	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Moses. Dear colleagues, there are still many bills there will be a chance to speak again. Vladimir Moses, please. The lens gives you the right to speak. Then there's Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u193	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. You know, honourable citizens, honourable colleagues, it's a rare case where I support the idea laid down in this bill. I'm also absolutely sure that the state has to have a monopoly on selling vodka and tobacco for a number of reasons. First, it's going to allow billions of dollars, not dollars, but billions of dollars to fill the government budget's income. I want to remind you that in the time of the ancient Soviet Union, the profits from vodka and abaca amounted to 30 percent of the income of the entire state budget. Thirty percent! To compare, this year we're going to have to get about 20 billion tobacco excises on a plan, and tobacco companies are going to make 180 billion dollars in tobacco sales. So in the budget of 20 billion, in the pockets of transnational corporations, 200 billion dollars. So these billions, hundreds of billions of dollars, should not go in the pockets of transnational corporations and their lobbyists. I want to agree with him with my colleague, and I know these lobbyists too, because when we raised excises on tobacco, excises on vodka, we were with him some of the authors of these bills. So they went with the money suitcases, and those bills about raising excises on tobacco and vodka. I want to remind you that three years ago, the price of cigarettes was lower than the price of chocolate, the price of a bottle of vodka was lower than the price of a bottle of milk. That's what our lobbyists advocated for the interests of these transnational corporations. That's why I think, but this bill should not be a single proposal, this bill should be proposed by the government, there should be a state policy aimed at protecting the health of the nation and at completing the budget. And we have, through offshore zones, like Cyprus, billions of people are moving out of the border, transnational corporations are allowing them to make billions, and there is no money for people, for pensioners, for children.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u194	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u195	Well, it's better if Bondarenko knows the subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u196	Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u197	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. Well, again, I'm going back to an extremely large dose of population in each of these projects. Please tell me, while in the majority, the Communists did not oppose the privatization of liquor companies, liquor factories and tobacco factories They're all in private today. What monopoly are you talking about? And the monopoly in Soviet times has led to an increase in production and consumption of alcohol in Ukraine by about twice a year. The village was joined consciously, and the population was joined together in general. Thus, the authority we now remember has shown us how to hold a state monopoly, to charge our pockets. Today we're going to learn that it was all going to a party that's somewhere outside of the country, because the welfare of the Soviet people has never gone up. The increase in the alcohol industry in Ukraine was phenomenal. 220 factories produced only alcohol, vodka. Let's be real today. In Ukraine this sector and this market are regulated. Let's think about how to do this so that we don't put people together to find any alternatives to coupling. Developing a village, a sport, developing a culture in Ukraine. It's gone. And what you've offered today is not going to give anything at all. Because there is today, once again, a regulated market. And so to help the oligarchs who own this market today, you can monopolize this field to the final end of your pocket, but no more. So you don't have to do that populism again. Let's finish him off. Such bills have no prospect. Moreover, your allies in the Party of the Regions do not support any bill from the Communist Party program. And that's very bad. Because what can your majority spread and then what will you do without them? Or you can get into a clink from which you can get out -- just war. So please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, please, Jaroslav Suhi, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the opposition spectors not to tear their shirts off, but we're going to figure out one way or another who's voting for it. But one way or another, I'm going to say, I'm going to support the idea of putting this bill into the agenda. Why? Because anyway, but eventually, in this session room, we're going to go back again and again to this issue until we start and introduce a state monopoly, I'm talking about one sector: alcohol production. And one more thing, look, you remember my words, we're going to be looking at this project in the session room. You know the loss of excise duty as a result of these questionable reforms in the alcohol industry today. I'll tell you this, I've learned from my experience, I've seen what I've done to the alcohol industry in just one area of Ternopil. So I would like to support the proposal to put it into the agenda and discuss it. At least we'll hear it from the Ministry, from the government the answer, what's going on and what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u200	Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the State Monopolies Act on the production and implementation of alcohol, alcohol and tobacco products, please vote, please vote. [[Registration number 10038]] [[13:49:12]] For-83 The decision is not taken. There's no motive. "To" is 83. Region Party 13, "BUT - Fatherland" – 9, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 9, communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 4, non-fractional 3. We continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code, Dear Colleagues, we were actually discussing this issue. [[on State support for scientific production in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 10057]] I want to say again, we've actually discussed this. Now it's about changes in the Tax Code if this law is adopted. Well, no, no, no? I beg of you, dear fellows. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:50:23]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Now, respectable colleagues, by analogy. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve the training of workers. The project itself was discussed. Now we are talking about changes to the Tax Code. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! A vote is taken on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the project. Please identify yourself. [[13:50:59]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code, which we have already discussed with you on this subject, please identify yourself. [[on the transition of Ukraine's economy to an innovative development model]] [[Registration number 10070]] About getting into the daytime. [[13:51:33]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Law on State Control of Prices for Goods and Services of First Need. Please sign in. Please sign up. Yes, my name, please. Davidenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Who? Jaroslav Jojik? Jaroslav Jojik, please microphone. Then there's Danilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u201	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'd like to address you first of all. This isn't the first day we're spending a very large amount of time looking into the inclusion of many issues in the agenda that aren't, let's say, angry about the situation today, in a situation where there's only a few days left before the end of this session, and actually the agenda for this week is overcrowded. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to ask you how the questions come to be considered for inclusion in the agenda. Because only today did more than 10 drafts come from the Communist faction, from Mr. Simonek. In a situation where virtually all the questions that are being put into the agenda today have been repeatedly considered and no more than 20-25 votes. It's in a situation where other people's deputies' bills lie there for months and don't go into the agenda. I would suggest, instead of those dozens of bills from the Communist Party of Ukraine, that a bill banning Communist ideology in Ukraine should be put in place to ensure that Ukrainian society once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u202	Please, let's do it on the subject. On the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u203	Heard about the crimes that the Communist Party had committed in previous years.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u204	Dear colleague, I'm asking for a bill. Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, when we discuss the issue of the Company or the faction, then you will be. Please. I'm now giving you the answer that the decision on how to deal with matters is determined by the Conciliation Council. That's the first one. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen, these bills were registered six months ago and are now under review in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council. I don't create order on my own. Vladimir Danilenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u205	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I must add to this that when most of these were still yours, these bills were all submitted by the faction of the Company of Ukraine, but they also did not find support for consideration. And today you're paying attention to that. And I have to give you more. Why is it that vocational and technical education, why does it bother me? I was a graduate of vocational and technical education, and when you were, your President, your Cabinet of Ministers, your majority in the Supreme Council, you did everything in the state to destroy vocational and technical education. So the Communists have always stood up for this position and will stand up for it. What's the bill? Dear comrades, the current state of the world’s economic crisis is a cause for concern, and it will certainly affect the lives of the poor. In order to prevent such a situation, we need to make sure that the incomes of the population within the subsistence minimum allow for the acquisition of goods and services of primary necessity. Therefore, it is important not only to assure citizens of their anxiety but also to guide the work of all authorities and local authorities to provide vital issues. Such a list should be created by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for every current year, and it should be in line with the prices, the subsistence minimum. This list refers to food, treatment, medical care, and other products and services associated with physical survival. In particular, the Russian Federation has developed and implemented a program to establish a list of medicines that are considered essential and most important to the cause.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u206	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u207	Yuri Gratkevich, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u208	Yuri Gnatkevitch, please, the Faction "BUT is "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u209	Dear colleagues! Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT is the Fatherland". The drafter, Peter Simonenko, at the last meeting of the Communist Party, which I followed closely, as if with pity, and in fact in some way boldly reported to the assembly and accordingly to the entire party that the restoration of capitalism had been completed in Ukraine. So I want to remind the distinguished communists that when I was still a member of the Supreme Council for the first time, we voted in favour of the first laws on privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u210	Please, I beg you, Your Honor, for the law, for State control.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u211	What am I going to talk about?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u212	Well, say it like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u213	At the time, we all voted in favour of privatization, together with you. But how did she go, which led to those free prices after the dispossessing of everything? We then imagined that capitalism would be built, where competition would determine prices when there were no monopolies. I remember driving among the people and performing on such an occasion. I told them that my grandfather Ivan Gnatkevitch had a cellar, a shop in the village, and another elderly Jew nearby. And he sent his son and he said, "Synulka, go see why John's got an apartment," and he put a little less. We didn't realize there was going to be monopolistic conspiracies and they would dictate prices. I will not, like my colleagues Lazko or Pavlovski, call you bourgeois Communists, even though you call us bourgeois nationalists. But I want to say that there's only one mechanism. You have good friendship with the Party of Regions and, in fact, with the oligarhat and the kid, you can make arrangements with them except for the introduction of national control. You remember that there was once a national control and he could do something about it. And finally, I'll remind you. At one time Julia Volodymyrna, when she was still at large, was Prime Minister when.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u214	Thank you. Please. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Well, now it's clear who passed the privatization laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u215	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Let's think that today the goods consumed by the population of Ukraine and the services consumed by them are usually produced by private companies, by private individuals, on the one hand. On the other hand, we have a very large proportion of people who are now outside the minimum of living. That's why every year, including this spring, we added to the support budget or to socio-economic development, including the support of the low-income population. And it happens in such a way that if we're natural monopolies, including the whole range of essentials or the first need for the population, we don't control in prices, including drugs, including food, except for bread, why don't we really, this basket, consumer goods and services for the low-income population, control the state and, in fact, say, make it up by year or by 5 even years, by 5 years. I think that this law is just in relation to those who are unable to buy a piece of meat, or a hall, or medicine, and so forth. Taking into account the situation that such a gap has taken place in our country so rapidly, and taking care of these defenseless levels of the population, I will personally vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on State control of prices for goods and services of primary necessity is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10061]] Please vote. Vote, vote. [[14:01:23]] For-35 The question is not included in the agenda. Show the factions to be visible to the national MPs. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act on the return to state ownership of privatised enterprises in the strategic sectors of the economy for inclusion in the agenda. [[10065]] Is there a need to exchange ideas? Please sign up. Sign up, sign up. Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then there's Valerius Beales.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u217	I think that the topic is really relevant because, in developing the modern economic crisis that we have been looking at for, in fact, the fifth year, the topic of the State monopoly on the leading industries of production is relevant not only to us but also to other leading world players. So at least I think it's appropriate to discuss the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u218	Please, Valery Beales. Vladimir Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u219	The Ukrainian People's Deputies'Group from the Compartium of Ukraine: Simonenko, Baburin, Matveev, Kravchenko proposes to put on the agenda and to discuss and adopt, on first and second reading, the Act on the Return to State Property of Privatized Enterprises of Strategic Sectors of the Economy. The need for this law is due to the fact that 20 years in Ukraine, radical market reforms, in the absence of a State-wide strategy for the reform and development of the economic system of the State, have developed a persistent trend towards deepening economic degradation, the collapse of the life-support system and the deterioration of the standard of living of people. First of all, this is due to market reforms, which have in fact resulted in large-scale privatization, first of all. The production sector of the economy has been rebalanced in the structure of the national economic system. This has led to a long transformation crisis, degradation of production funds, and a common one. macroeconomic policies, which in turn were marked by significant problems in the exercise by the Power, the State of its social functions. As for the timing of this bill and who our allies are, I must say the following. First. Communists have always consistently opposed privatization, against privatization of strategic industries. And that's a confirmation. and have never voted in favour of this privatization, unlike those who today would renounce this privatization by all means, the first. Second. The socialists, the progressive socialists, have consistently spoken to our allies in these matters, but we have never been associated with the oligarchs on this side or on this side. And we fully understand why this is happening. Because the laws we propose are in the best interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u220	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u221	The laws that we are proposing are passed for the benefit of the people of Ukraine, and those present here for their own benefit are voted in the oligarchic interest. Remember, among Ukraine's people, how many millions? How many of them are communists? That's what they say.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u222	Please, Grivkowski does not insist. Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u223	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine. I'd like you to pass it on to Jojik Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u224	Jojik, please, mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u225	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly drawn the attention of the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the fact that the efforts of this leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the expense of the citizens, at the expense of the budget, have turned into the capital of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Because it is only today that more than ten drafts of Mr. Simonek's are included in the agenda, despite the fact that during previous periods these issues have been repeatedly included, and that more than 25-30 votes have never been received. In order to remove these suspicions that the leadership of the Supreme Council is promoting the Communist Party, I demand that I immediately include in the agenda a day's decree prohibiting communist ideology.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u226	Turn off the microphone. Question completed. I'll put it to a vote. Zybenko, please give me a minute. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u227	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! In front of me, one of the non-scientific deputies offered to make a decision to ban the Ukrainian Company. I want to remind the people of Ukraine not so much of this non-scientific MP as it is that the same number of non-scientific deputies have already made a similar decision, which the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has overturned. And once again, I want to say that we understand exactly why this anti-communist hysteria is happening today: because the Company of Ukraine has proposed a number of drafts in favour of the working people of Ukraine, and in particular the question of the state monopoly on vodka products. So this situation must have gotten some, and today they have spread anticommunist hysteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u228	I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law on the return to state ownership of privatised enterprises in strategic sectors of the economy. [[Registration number 10065]] Please vote. [[14:08:30.]] For-33 The decision is not supported. Integrating Ukraine's economy into an innovative development model into the agenda of the daily draft Law. [[Registration number 10069]] Besides Hanushkak, no one insists? Sign up. Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the investment and innovation model for development is our Ukrainian path. I want to remind you of the name of the author of this concept, Mikhailo Ivanovich Tugan-Baranovsky, First Minister of Finance of the Ukrainian People's Republic. Sadly, when he was young, he died of cold, rode on a train. But now his concept is at the heart of the so-called Swedish model of socialism. This is the same kind of capitalism with a human face as it used to be called. And in developing an innovative model for Ukraine's future. I would like to remind you of another of our national deputies of Ukraine, who, unfortunately, is not with us, he had a huge monograph, I mean Mikhailo Pavlovsky, who left life early. This is, for example, this book I have, so far I'm reading it, because there are things that he's pulling out of the specifics, the specifics of economic development. There can be no such thing in the world that Ukraine can reinvent some of its bicycles. Without an investment-innovation approach to the development of our economy, we don't have a future. And this modernization, which is now taking place in Ukraine, is a reform of all sides of social and economic life and is called upon to create preconditions to create the foundations for Ukraine's development on this path. So I don't understand where politics comes from or where it's coming from, and people from opposition who are supposed to come up with their suggestions or their ideas, suddenly try to get angry, black out, stick up some hump, and here the Company is once, now, and what all these other conversations are about. The idea itself, try it, let's put this bill into the agenda and talk about -- this is tomorrow, this is the future of Ukraine's development. I suggest we put it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u230	Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u231	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders Dear National Deputies! I want to address you with the urgent decision that tomorrow morning was the Attorney General of Ukraine, here was the Minister of Justice, here was the lying-ombudsman Lutkovska, who was an agent of the government, because they lost 15,000 euros, lost Lucenko and their actions were declared illegal at seven points.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u232	Yuri Anatoliyovich, please, on the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u233	And there's no bigger topic for the Ukrainian people today. People have to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u234	Turn off the microphone. Please, Ganushkak, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u235	Then Carmazin is my word, let the man agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u236	But on the subject of the bill, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I'm sorry, there's gonna be "Rizzna," you'll say what you want. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u237	Adam Ivanovich, this is what we're looking at so far: "Virgin," you know, this is what we're looking at. Because in this law, the Scientific and Experimental Authority wrote that the vast majority of the social relationships that are proposed are already regulated and there is no single object of regulation. That's the first one. And the second. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I understand that this is an unpleasant subject for you, because the Communists support most here. And today, the innovative model has unfortunately not been fully supported by allocating funds, including to the Chinese. However, recognition by the European Court of Justice of the human rights of political persecution in Ukraine is an extremely serious case. I demand to begin this meeting tomorrow. Tomorrow! And all the judges, prosecutors, to file criminal charges, are in prison for violating 7 counts against Lucenko. Everything has to be adequate, the law has to be the same for everyone. So, dear friends, let's do this with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u238	Please, Alexandrovska, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u239	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, one of the deputies in the hall recently spoke of the need to have chats to understand that these laws do not work or work. Let this colleague take all the laws that are related to each other and read carefully. Among other things, the one that has just been said is that most of the provisions of the Act have already been resolved. We do not have a solution to the fact that the State is providing money from the budget for the development of innovative activities. We have no agreement that the State may establish a venture fund. We don't know how much money this venture fund is going to work with. We have no solution which enterprises, organizations, institutions, including scientific institutions, can claim this money. We have not resolved these issues, so there is no real public policy in this area. You don't want to support communists, you do worse to yourself, you do worse to the people of Ukraine, you do worse to Ukraine's future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-03-m0.u240	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill number 10069 on the transition of Ukraine's economy to an innovative development model. Please vote. [[14:15:13]] For-30 Not turned on. We can include the 150th anniversary of Boris Grinchenko's birth. I'm betting on the vote to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft decree marking the 150th anniversary of Boris Dmitrovitch Grinchenko. [[Registration number 10318]] Please vote. [[14:15:49]] For 227 It's on. And here's a draft decree marking the 825th anniversary of the first literary reference to the name "Ukraine." [[Registration number 10330]] Please vote. [[14:16:16]] For-21 The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Break until 4:00.
