ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:34]] Registered at the 394 National Deputies Sessional Hall. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The opening ceremony of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion was attended by President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine. Please welcome the President of Ukraine! () [[Applause]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, thank you. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! At the opening ceremony of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there are: Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janovich Azarov and members of the Government, acting Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and Judge of the Constitutional Court, Head of the Supreme Court, Head of the Supreme Court, Chief of the Supreme Court for Civil and Criminal Affairs, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the National Property Fund, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Justice, Head of the State Committee for Television and Radio Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Court of Auditors, Head of the Office of the High Council of Justice. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion was declared open. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Thank you, distinguished national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, is invited to attend. Please, Victor Fedorovich. [[(Applause) (Noise in the hall)]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear people's deputies, please, let's calm down. [[Noise in the hall, shouts from "Julie's Will!"]] Dear people's deputies, well, please, so we won't scream, we'll just deepen the conflict. Please, calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! Let's work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that's enough. Please calm down, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! [[Applause]] I am convinced that everyone in this room is well aware of their share of shared responsibility for the fate of the country, for the success and effectiveness of further changes, for the self-esteem and well-being of each Ukrainian family. Ukraine, like the whole world, is in difficult economic conditions. It's hard sometimes with delays and mistakes, but we started moving to a modernized and successful state. Our actions together have left no one indifferent. Of course, Ukraine has its own features. Modernization policies have proponents, there are critics, there are active leaders and there are open opponents. But I am convinced that the truth is on the side of someone who does the real thing and changes lives for the better. Despite the challenges and trials that the world is facing in the face of a global crisis, in the past 2011, we have ensured a 5.2 percent increase in GDP. This is a very good indicator that shows that the country’s potential has been gradually restored. Last year, economic growth was driven by real sectors of the economy: industry, agriculture, transport. A record low inflation rate of 4.6 percent has been reached since 2002. The credit activity of banks is being restored. We have a stable national currency. The government budget has increased by 31 percent over the past year. People’s income, wages, and social benefits grew gradually. Mainly, in 2011, the national economy demonstrated its own developmental capacity and the state's ability to ensure such development. The first annual national reform plan, which allowed for high coordination and interaction in the work of the Supreme Council, the President, the Government and local authorities, played a major positive role. This is a good answer to the accusations of those who today, in the heat of political struggle, continue to groan and give birth to despair in tomorrow’s day, in the efficiency of power, in the viability of the country, and finally, in their own strength. However, the positive conclusion of 2011 is only the basis for the copying and responsible work of all branches of government this year. Yes, we have high hopes for 2012. At the same time, from this rostrum, I say frankly and honestly: economically, this year will be very difficult. We need to minimize the impact and new risks of the global crisis, strengthen our own national economic foundation. The experience of the last two years has shown that we need to focus on our own strengths and abilities to move forward. Therefore, the strategic priority of 2012 is internal transformation, and the focus is on citizens, their freedoms and opportunities, their work and their social security. The world crisis has once again testified, there is no better or worse in the world, there is a strong and weak spirit, there is confidence and there is confusion. And it's in 2012, I'm convinced that we have to finally overcome the cost-effectiveness complex. This is our shared task. It can only be implemented through broad understanding and consensus around the ideas of modernizing Ukraine. On an economic scale, I consider the first major expansion of the energy security of the state to be a priority in 2012 for modern energy-saving technologies and the diversification of energy sources. A whole set of such measures is now being implemented. In addition, it is necessary to complete the preparations and submit to Parliament a bill to reform the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine", to involve investors in the coal sector, and to move to a new model of energy. To do this, we need to adopt legislation that provides for the modernization of the coal sector and the oil and gas complex. The other one. Development of national production based on effective import and export potential policies. It is important to adopt the Ukrainian Act on State Financial Support for Export Activities, which should ensure transparency in the adoption of decisions by an export credit institution, a clear procedure for identifying creditor banks to be granted State guarantees, criteria for determining the list of goods of Ukrainian origin to be provided with financial support. Third. The development of the transport sector. A new mechanism for the operation of rail transport needs to be put in place, the institution of an independent regulator in the transport sector needs to be put in place, and a legislative framework for the operation of seaports needs to be established. To address these issues, the Supreme Council proposes: to consider legislation that regulates rail transport, inter alia, the infrastructure of seaports. Four. The implementation of a new agrarian policy, based on land reform and the restoration of the village. On more than one occasion, I stressed the importance of properly shaping the legislative base of the agricultural land market. This is the first step we've taken: the Ukrainian National Cadastre Act has been passed. The implementation of its standards for the first time in the history of our state's independence will allow this year to run a single information system that will contain information about all the countries within the state border of Ukraine. It remains the last and perhaps most difficult step to take in the adoption of the land market bill. And here we have no right to make a mistake. The law must protect the rights of common peasants, landowners. Please bear in mind that Ukrainian land is not only the country's most expensive resource, but also the human destiny of today's and future generation. I hope that you will take a responsible approach to this matter, consider it, draw the right conclusions from our experience and the experience of other countries that have already done so. Once again, we're not going to be in a hurry, and most importantly, we're going to be very balanced about the interests of the peasants -- that's our top priority. [[Applause]] Fifth. Housing-communal reform. A number of bills have been drafted by the government, creating more transparent, civilized activities for joint owners of multistory buildings. At the final stage of drafting a bill on commercial thermal energy accounting, which will soon be submitted to Parliament. I feel it is necessary to adopt laws that regulate the identification of the instigation territory and the rental of utilities. The steps we have taken to introduce budgetary reform into the legislative framework to ensure transparency and predictability of budgetary policy should be found in practical implementation. However, the practice of working on this year’s budget has demonstrated the application of outdated and opaque approaches to shaping the country’s main asset. This is primarily the case with the use of a manual mechanism for the distribution of state support funds for regions. I would like to point out that such public budget funds between regions should be allocated on the basis of fair criteria that objectively take into account the state of development of the regions. In this regard, I have been commissioned by the government to prepare changes to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012, by which regional investment subsidies will be redistributed on the basis of the stated principles. This task is based on the understanding and support of the deputies. The stability of government finances is largely linked to the stability of the tax system. However, with the adoption of the Tax Code, the practice of constantly amending tax legislation has unfortunately not stopped. At the same time, along with changes aimed at improving the individual standards of the codex. The lobbying of narrow interests is being monitored in part of the expansion of tax benefits. I emphasize that the tax rules should be the same for everyone, and you should put a dot on that. In the tax area, I consider it a priority to improve the administration of taxes, particularly in the simplification of tax payers’ procedures related to such administrations, and to reform the approaches and principles of the public tax authorities, which should be directed primarily towards prejudices against tax laws. I demand that taxpayers and other controlling authorities put an end to the pressure on business. I look forward to the consolidation of such provisions in the Code from the joint work of the government and Parliament in the current year. Honourable national MPs, government members invited, are among the priorities for 2012 to achieve a new quality of government and public services. Humanity, honesty and justice are the foundation of a new quality. First of all, they should be finally dismantled by the old Soviet standards of repressive law in relations between the state and the citizen, the state and the business. You and I have passed a revolutionary law on the decriminalization of economic crimes. I'm waiting on the legislators to review the new Criminal Procedure Code immediately. In 2012, we will continue to form a national space of economic freedom on the basis of mutual responsibility, honesty and partnership between government and business. The deregulation of entrepreneurship will continue. Gradually, but inconveniently, we're going to get the economy out of the shadows. The new Customs Code has a major role to play in this regard. I am counting on Parliament to consider my comments to him and approve the Customs Code in the near future. At the same time, I understand that entrepreneurs have a lot of complaints about authority, about administrative pressure, about checks. In January, I signed a commission not to do so. Obviously, the time has come to limit the authority of the controlling authorities. It is necessary to put an end to the possibility of halting the business by decision of officials. I believe that such decisions should be made solely by a court and only on sufficient and proven grounds. In the near future, I will also work with you to ensure that law enforcement officers change their attitude toward entrepreneurs. One question is the quality of the public service itself. Honesty of officials, humanity in dealing with citizens. Last year we adopted new legislation that will allow us to overcome corruption in the administrative system. By the beginning of this year, I had approved the New Strategy for State Personnel Policy by 2020 and the new rules for admission to service. Administrative reform will continue in 2012. The main task is to significantly reduce the bureaucratic apparatus in places that represent the central executive authorities, raise discipline and the quality of services at the regional level. We settle these issues at the legislative level. I took the legislative initiative to bring the Administrative Services Act to your attention. The project is now being completed on the committees, and I'm counting on your support. There is also a need for a system of social protection. Modernization is a painful but necessary process of change. Our task with you is to prove to people that change really makes life easier is to provide real prosperity. I am well aware that people are very careful about the approaches and decisions of the authorities on this issue. Thus, by making changes, we have no right to make people’s lives worse. At the same time, however, we have no right to engage in a comparison that is also unfair to a particular person. So it's this year that we have to work and start running an effective and fair system of targeted social assistance. The country is said to be not a barracks where everyone gets a little bit and a little bit. Each fellow countryman should feel cared for by him and his family, and help should be just and well calculated. In the area of pension reform, a basic law has been adopted to reform the pension system. In particular: steps have been taken to stabilize the Pension Fund, the mechanism for the implementation of the cumulative level of the pension system. However, in order to put the Pension Fund's budget to a level of inadequacy, the introduction of the accrual level of the pension system and the significant increase in the pension payments of most pensioners, it is necessary this year to adopt laws on the gradual redistribution of the pension premium between the legislator and the employee, the improvement of the order of appointment and the indexation of pensions, the creation of a level playing field for the indexation of the pension irrespective of the law under which it was assigned. The release of a solidarity pension system from its ineligible expenses, such as the financing of fixed-term and extended pensions. At the same time, the adoption of employment and income laws by the Supreme Council should be a major factor in stabilizing the Pension Fund’s budget and raising the general population’s income. Their preparation depends on Parliament’s adoption of the Labour Code. This is foreseen in the 2012 National Action Plan, the implementation of the Economic Reform Programme. The State budget for 2012 provides for an increase in the living minimum for disabled persons from 820 in January to 884 in December, thus increasing the minimum wage. We realize that these are far from the right pace to ensure the safety of the pensioner. At the same time, as soon as it allows economic growth, we will raise social standards and therefore pension payments. Another important trend is the reform of health care. It started in four pilot regions, but the lack of legislation slows down the pace of reform. Two laws were to be passed last year in order to develop a new health - care framework that provides a basis for the transformation of the emergency care system and the construction of an optimal health - care network for the population. This is the draft Law on a State-wide system of emergency medical care. Some improvement has already been made. There's been an increase in the cost of drugs for quick medical care. For pilot projects, cars are being purchased, a national project called "Timely Assistance" has been launched. However, this is not enough for citizens to experience radical changes for the better. All major positions relating to the creation, financing and management of such a system should be anchored at the legislative level. Only then will these changes become systemic. What is important is a bill on health - care activities that will outline the formats and principles of a modern health - care network. In addition, we are now developing powerful social programs in the Reform Committee and in the government. I'm counting on the legislators to support these initiatives. Reforms in the humanitarian sphere need special attention. Reforms in particular areas of this sphere cannot be initiated without a clear concept of these reforms and their legislative implementation. An anti-example can be reform of higher education, I repeat, an anti-example. The government began to reorganize higher education institutions earlier than it had defined the relevant law, which should be the new principles for their functioning, which led to various problems. Therefore, the adoption of the Higher Education Law is a priority, but it should not preserve the existing state of things. There should be radical changes in the autonomy of higher education institutions on the grounds of administrative and economic self - government, combining education with science and practical activity. Through the public procurement mechanism, education has to be flexible to respond to the needs of the economy, and a permanent relationship between the institutions and employers must be established. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2012 election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I understand that for every parliamentarian, every political party represented in Parliament, it is a serious test. For the first time in decades, we have had a broad consensus on the approval of the legislative framework of the electoral process in the autumn of 2011, and so we have the opportunity to prepare for elections peacefully, without shocks and conflicts. I want to address the opposition factions. Return to Parliament! [[Applause]] It's not possible to save a country on the ground, and we know it with you, so we need to work on developing a country, raising the standard of living of people. This is the responsibility of all nationals, regardless of political colors and preferences. And I wish you that. [[Applause]] It has already become a negative tradition for the state to die in the year of elections, for political shows, and for empty populist promises. So I think that regardless of the parties, the color of the flags should be taken into account in 2012, and no vacations in the country are said to be during the elections. We all have to work together. [[Applause]] It is this year that our fellow countrymen must feel that reforms are for the better, that they are new conditions and new opportunities, and that parliamentary races should help this process. I look forward to the election of a new quality of the MP Corps, political tolerance, serious, productive discussions about the future of our nation, hard work and fruitful work. In this context, I want to draw your attention to the President's decision to create a constitutional assembly. I think that the constitutional process is an extremely responsible task for all of us. How many decisions can a country’s fate be decided at night meetings? How much can this question be trusted only to individual political leaders? I believe that work on constitutional change is primarily the work of experts, scientists, public society and, of course, representatives of the people in Parliament. The constitutional process, the work is not, as they say, once or for one year, and it has to take place openly and publicly. In addition, this work has a great educational function. Citizens should be aware of what kind of state they will be. So I'm addressing you from this rostrum, so don't let this process be politicized, trust in science and civil society, because we all need a new social treaty, not banal new rules of the political game. And to the end. In 2012, Ukraine accepted the European Football Championship, an important and symbolic event that will rediscover Ukraine, Europe and the world. At the same time, we are once again convinced of Ukraine’s inseparability with European space. Our path to the European Union is unalterable, waiting for the legislators to work seriously and productively to ensure the legal security of our integration process. In 2012, we will finally define the legal conditions for economic cooperation with our international partners, the main ones being the creation of free trade zones with the European Union, with the SND countries. I hope that these decisions will also be supported in Parliament. Being modern and moving forward with time, maintaining dignity and respect for every citizen, these orientations will allow us to successfully take the intended path. Convinced that in 2012 we will become even stronger. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President of Ukraine for his statement, for his identification of the country's development and the tasks that the Supreme Council is to undertake and act in solidarity with the President, with the government and with all the Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u4	Honourable National Deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, are given the floor by the head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u5	Honorable National MPs, distinguished members of the government, all invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear and dear colleagues! 264 days — so much remains to be done today’s composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I say that they will have a definite impact on the overall assessment of the work of each national MP, the place and role of this Supreme Council in Ukraine's recent history. And because the first and last chords are embedded in social and human perceptions, they are embedded even at a semi-conscious level, especially in view of the external and internal circumstances in which the country will live and, of course, will operate during this period of the Supreme Council. They are unheard of, hard to predict, then, with unknown consequences. The only thing that is known is that far from positive is not always positive. However, we seem to have grown accustomed to living with the sense of inevitability of worse choices. That's not supposed to happen. The world’s system is falling into a general crisis, with some authoritative forecasts up to chaos. In certain regions, it's already a reality. Against this background, mass political awakening, including by aspirations, increasing the influence of civil society, worsening the quality of political leadership, not drawing it to strategic thinking, and defining vectors of the movement of people's interests. Appropriately, there are increasing challenges, threats to Ukraine, openness to the world, weakness of the internal market, and still overwhelming negative economic effects of the previous period. It is known that the world's largest economic system, the European Union, will continue to make difficult financial and economic decisions to curb the crisis within the EU in 2012. Let us add to this the policy shifts in relation to election campaigns in countries such as Russia, France, and the United States. And also that the European Union, Russia and the United States are key political, trade and economic partners in Ukraine with the volume of mutual trade of almost $110 billion. That's 60 percent of our circulation. And their economy is 44 percent of the world's GDP. And the conclusion will be clear: the adjustment and even the fluctuation of their foreign and domestic policies will have a noticeable effect on processes in Ukraine, Ukraine itself. We may face problems that we did not give serious attention to. For example, the precise definition of our national interests, the possible limits of Ukraine's sovereignty, particularly in the areas of politics, economics, rights, humanitarianism, especially with regard to clearly defined long-standing new world trends, the fight for resources and democratization, including the forced democratization of entire regions, countries and communities, with the second trend coming out of the first, and it is dictated, although not always too obvious. It seems that Ukraine will feel more and more about itself. I guess there's no need to explain why Ukraine is. Just as we hope that under different circumstances, it will come out of the attention of global players for a time. More and more clearly, we are sometimes treated as an object, not an object of international politics, even for formal reasons, in 17 years we have failed to meet our basic obligations to the Council of Europe. As a result, constant monitoring, new recommendations that are transformed into additional commitments and work on new democratic standards in Ukraine. In this context, the Supreme Council should be particularly responsible for making recommendations to our address of European structures, including the last resolution of the PARE "Functioning democratic institutions in Ukraine", which, by the way, the Head of State has already demonstrated. We all have to eventually mobilize the change in the tone of these documents. If they were initially encouraged and recommended, these last days are imperative requirements. Personally, I have a sense of programming the next step -- sanctions, because to do everything in a short period of time, and even more to make changes to the Constitution quite problematic. The day's issue is Ukraine's authority. Under no circumstances should we allow the release to the pary state level of isolation, if anyone did not want to. Its sovereignty should not be reduced to such a formality, largely dependent on external circumstances. So for starters, we have to give up our inner evil, the happy hand rub, saying, "How do we do them?" Not them, but the country. Just like from self-satisfaction, he said again, "recommendations are recommendations," and we do what we do, and we stop publishing what we have to win. On all sides, the country did not win. Above all, putting this work on a serious basis. Do not allow queued imitations. Consider difficult decisions. Show real movement and real and time limits for solving each problem. Such an approach should provide a solid basis for building a new foundation for dialogue with European structures. It is essential as a consolidated dialogue on our part. Ukraine must speak with one voice, at least with the voice of Ukraine in the foreign political arena. Of course, the standards of democracy determine who is stronger, primarily economically. Without questioning the objectivity of the evaluations, at the same time, I think it is necessary to stress that the latest decision by PARJE has inadvertently played a role in the anti - European forces in Ukraine and not only in Ukraine. And it's also a reality. But we also demonstrated that we do not believe too much in our own strength. We don't believe in Ukraine too much. We're still living with a state malpractice syndrome. We're confusing the state with power. You may not love power, but you must respect Ukraine. And stop treating the state as personal property. It turns out that it's not a politician, it's the owner. And the people are the material for the experiments. Dear meeting, I'm trying to reach out to you. And putting such an acute problem will make me have another principle of the specificity of the moment. It is that Ukraine has reached the threshold of growth and has fully exhausted the resources of state development through previous works and dominant ideas and approaches. It is necessary to recognize the need to ensure that the country is transferred to a new quality, to the next higher stage of government construction. This requires meaningful action by all institutions of power and the whole position of society. We won't last long in inertia. We can't keep our sovereignty. The proposed reforms can be criticised as much as possible. But there is something else to be done. A distraction is not a job. I don't want them to be like politicians, about whom the famous Russian lawyer Koni said in his own time: "People sitting in the back seat of the last train car are lovingly admiring the disappearing track in the distance in the hope of returning it, at the same time, caught by the train's power, they're still going ahead, but only back." We're doing fine in the back, and we're not doing very well in the back yet. Clearly, talking about such a reality will not change the reality itself. A general Ukrainian dialogue on Ukraine’s present and prospects is needed. It needs to be defined with a tool like the Constitutional Assembly. Assembly boycott policy has the right to life, but it's a primitive policy. This is a voluntary restriction on social representation in the handling of state passports. Remember, in her time, she was called the National Constitutional Council, and she had some kind of turnout. Today, to express our position, no, we show service, they will speak, they will say, they will say, they will say, when there is something to say and when there is something to offer, they must offer and stand up. Are we in a state of civil war? Are we enemies? Do we want Ukraine to get worse? Let us at least demonstrate in this matter that we are concerned about the fate of the State and respect it more than we hate each other. More than that, there is enough work and resistance to the election campaign for the Supreme Council. And this is the third feature that will most clearly affect the organization of our work, because this process, called, went, and went ahead of any rule of law. It was as if about our days and about us another 100 years ago that Gruszewski said, "Mandat has captured everything. And in front of the election accounts, the circumstances that may have affected the fate of the elections have lost all other weight, all normal requirements of justice, objectivity, social ethics must stand down before the demands of a decisive battle against the enemies. Alliances, combinations, statements are made that are impossible under other circumstances. And every review of the outcome is postponed until another time, before the election." End of quote. We cannot afford the luxury of declaring a break in the state’s life during elections. It's unacceptable. The task is to keep the Supreme Council working. Do not provoke major conflicts and political wars. Otherwise, we will not pick up the country after the election. Can I have your attention, please? Without the ice, we are all on thin ice and are all responsible for what will happen to Ukraine and the people today and tomorrow. Let's stay away from thoughtless movements. It is easier to impose your truth and to demonstrate that we do not accept the truth when it applies to ourselves. Let's wave less with our hands, try to scream and push each other, and move more with our brains. A talkative fact points to the need to focus on more meaningful work. In 2011, the president of Ukraine made a commitment to 51 laws, and he made a thorough commitment. Including the reasons for their consideration in this session hall and in the recommendations of the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. Of these, 16 were signed by the Head of State and after reconsideration, eight were taken out of consideration at all. And 27 laws in the process. This is also about interaction with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And once again, let's stop waving our hands about the motives that we're dealing with in the voting room, and let's just work meaningfully. After all, an era of acceptance of the Tax Code could be a lesson for the Supreme Council. This has already been discussed in the President's statement. No, it didn't. Not mentioning all the periphery around it, I will note, since it became effective, that from 1 January 2011 the Tax Code has been amended by sixteen laws. And think about it, the total amount of these laws is 233 sheets, while the Tax Code is only 678 sheets. And before it was applied by the President of Ukraine, the veto was re-adopted by the Supreme Council with systemic changes. In addition, 12 bills have already been registered for this session to clarify and supplement this long - suffering code. The same is true of all seventeen codes and primary laws. In general, such training and exercise over the Criminal Procedure Code cannot be allowed. Working on it is one of the key tasks of this session. I don't think there's any need to justify its relevance both in the adoption part and in the entry into force, preparing for the work of all of whom it applies. The Criminal Procedure Code is also our commitment to the Council of Europe and the problem of Ukraine's relationship with the European Court of Human Rights. 7.5 percent of the cases in this case are against Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! In his time, Jean Jacques Rousseau argued, "The wise legislator begins not with the adoption of laws, but with the study of their suitability in a given society." At this point of view, it is worth examining 850 drafts to be considered at the session. This is primarily the case with the Committees on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs, Law Enforcement, Economic Policy, State Building and Local Self-Government, Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, which have more than half the legislative burden, 51 percent of all bills. Questions that do not add anything to social development or can only provoke other problems and causes of opposition, hostility, and strife do not need to be pedaled at all. For example, in a sensitive and sensitive area, such as humanitarian policy. Pre-election and electoral orientations are not worth disrupting civil peace for them. The principle of war is not going to work. And I'd like, dear colleagues, to stop this itch. We should not rush into adopting resonant laws that are not accepted by people; we should not make them happy in a decision - making way, especially the Land Market Bill. You will not command the heart, and besides phantom fears, the real danger is the alienation of the peasants and the displacement of Ukraine, the loss of our spiritual genetic code. And the living also have the attitude of a peasant, as between a man and a ox. What will happen to them if they lose their land at all? In large numbers, what will happen to Ukraine? The president of Ukraine is demonstrating a full understanding of this situation, and that is what has been said today. The same understanding needs to be demonstrated to the Supreme Council and focus on what really needs to be done in close, stressed, close interaction with the Cabinet of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has entered a period of renewed anxiety, expectation, and, above all, hope. The country, society, people have waited for positive changes, they're only possible when all branches of government work together at our joint responsibility. The reforms that Victor Fedorovich Janukovic spoke of today were not a whim but an objective requirement for the Ukrainian people to realize their chances. For them to be implemented in 2012, up to 130 laws are required. So from 850, let's pick the ones we really need. The accusations, as a resource for development, have exhausted themselves. What's more, all the creatures in Ukraine are in power, all of them. We have to do everything we can to make sure that politics doesn't go a long way ahead of the economy, because it's not going to do any good, just like it's going to do from the scandals that until recently have been a product that's been good and good at selling. The people are waiting for the authorities to be restored through the election of the Supreme Council. It would be good if they became a real debut for civil society as well. Most of us fight for power, I think everyone fights for power, and there's nothing wrong with it, but the best chance of winning it is to change ourselves, prove their need for people, prove their need for work. Let us say to ourselves and Ukraine today: Our opportunities are great and our lives are short to spend time fighting to fight. We will work honestly and effectively for the people, for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to announce a 30-minute recess, calm down, adjust to the working rhythm. And so that at 12 o'clock we don't have to take a break and then work according to Tuesday's assignments. Is there no objection? An interval of up to 11 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats so that we can continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear national deputies, there is such an offer, and I would like to support it. In order to be able to plan the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the next few days, I have this request: let us now confirm the order of the day session – and then make statements from the factions. Is there no objection? So, dear colleagues, I'm informing you that almost 850 questions have been proposed for the agenda. They are contained in two chapters: the first chapter is bills prepared for consideration by the committees, almost 200 of them; the second chapter is bills to be prepared for consideration by the committees. And there are addenda: there are two appendices with committee proposals not to include in the agenda of the daily bills that are already regulated by previously adopted laws or have lost their relevance; and there is another supplement that is proposed by the committees, and there is a proposal not to include a number of bills in view of political and other circumstances. And we agreed on the Conciliation Council that we're going to conduct this voting procedure on this issue: I'm going to put to the vote the whole order of the day session, taking into account all the supplements. In case the Supreme Council doesn't support me, I'll put all the chapters to the vote. And those chapters that get support and supplements we then collectively vote as the order of the day session. Do you understand the offer? Is the offer clear? Is there any objection? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the day of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of the Sixth General Assembly. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:35:00]] For-67 The offer is not accepted. Therefore, the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s first chapter, the questions prepared for consideration in plenary sessions. Please vote. So why don't you vote? [[11:35:26]] For-47 Dear colleagues, I don't understand the situation. That we don't want to take anything at all? I put it to a vote, once again, the first chapter to vote on. questions prepared for consideration in plenary sessions. Please vote. [[11:35:57]] For 302 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the second chapter, the questions that committees recommend for inclusion in the agenda, but which require appropriate preparation. Please vote. [[11:36:26]] For 299 Decision taken. I now put to the vote a list of the bills that the committees have concluded in their previous consideration to not include in the agenda of the High Council's day session a sixth call, given that these issues have already been settled by previously adopted laws or have become obsolete. Here's a list, all two of them. I'll put the vote first on the list. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:09]] For-9 The decision is not taken. I am now putting to the vote an additional list of bills not recommended by the committees for inclusion in the agenda of the tenth session, which are urged by individual MPs. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:42]] For-86 The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote a list of bills that are proposed by individual MPs to be removed from the draft agenda of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:38:11]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Thus, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to approve the order of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in general, chapter one and chapter two. Please vote. [[11:38:42]] For 309 Decision taken. Thank you. The order of the day session has been approved. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions. Names of the national deputies. Vladimir Kaplienko, the Reform Group for the Future, please give your speech. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The members of the Reforms for the Future faction have consistently supported positive reform efforts in the country. But today we would like to draw your attention to the energy dependency that is happening today, because every Ukrainian hears that gas is very expensive every day. But do we know that the price of gas in the world is falling? For example, the price of gas in the United States is not more than $100 per thousand cubes in the internal market. Do we know that Russia's pricing policy is different for Ukraine and Europe? For example, in February Gazprom reported a decrease in the price of gas for the five largest European buyers: Italy, Germany, France, Slovakia and Austria Gazprom exhibits an ultimatum worth more than $456 to Ukraine. The question is: Why? Why do we pay more than our European colleagues? The answers are simple. Because we're addicts, and it comes out as an easy-to-drive consumer, because we eat gas like half-Europeans. Because we don't appreciate what we have: coal, our own genealogy and technology. Because we are against all the rules of economic life, living on a broad foot, without our European colleagues having a culture of energy conservation that is at the last on a genetic level. Because we're so generous that we're making contracts like the 2009 model, where a thousand cubic meters of gas costs about two and a half years later is more than the average wage in Ukraine. Because an entire group of responsible Ukrainian officials mistakenly viewed Russian gas as a single and alternative source of hydrocarbons. It's not possible to call a partnership when Russian officials adjust any extraneous situation to the political charge of Ukrainian partners, we have meat, it's not cheese, it's rail cars, it's not cars or gas that's getting smaller. Yes, the last wave called "not authorized gas selection by the Ukrainian side" once again burst like a soap bubble. However, the spoons are said to have been found, but the sediment remains. So maybe brothers and sisters, maybe we don't have to worry about our northern neighbour and finally get to the implementation of our nation's energy security project. We, the deputies of the Reforms for the Future faction, insist on a four-level model of energy security. First of all, we count. Creating conditions for shaping Ukraine's energy balance. The relevant 9538 project is already being submitted to us for the purpose of actual monitoring of energy consumption in Ukraine. The second is we're saving. This is about more energy-efficient technology development, giving strong aid to those who reduce energy consumption in their businesses or in their homes and investors in this area. Third, we're eating our own. This is about increasing its own gas production through the development of new deposits such as the Black Sea shelf and the production of its own salt gas, as well as the use of small-scale wells. We see the transition to coal instead of gas using, for example, well-known hydrocarbon suspensions. We cannot forget the development of alternative energy and nuclear industry, as well as the restoration of the government's order to explore Ukrainian energy perspectives. We don't buy from one participant, that's the fourth. This is about diversification of sources of income: Azerbaijan, Turkey, Romania, etc. By bringing all these factors together, Ukraine, as a good host, will be able to significantly reduce its consumption of expensive Russian gas in the near future. The "Reforms for the Future" faction urges the government to move away.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u10	The Reforms for the Future faction urges us to move away from deterrence policy and move on to an energy security program. Because without it, we don't have tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u11	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, starting at the tenth session, drew attention to the fact that the first month of the new year and the challenges posed by the severe frosts had reaffirmed that there was no real socio-economic strategy in Ukraine, either at the end of the crisis gap or at the maintenance of human living conditions for the common people. At the same time, the capital strategy of the seized power has been tightly implemented for 20 years. Every day, through the fiercest total exploitation of millions of Ukrainian workers, this strategy brings enormous excesses to the oligarchs. Social programmes are not financed. Punitive money flows into their private banks. The Oligarchs are paid off by billions of debts. Property is given over to the enterprise and to the subterranean. At the same time, ordinary people are skinned three times by taxes, rising prices for basic foods, essentials: medicines, medicine, education, and the rapid rise in public services tariffs. By merging with the International Monetary Fund and various transnational corporations, the capital of the oligarchy is being drawn into the so-called death spiral. The domestic economy, its real sector, the Ukrainian village are shaky. Unemployment is becoming irreversible. Public debt is growing. Every day, we are horrified to hear further reports from Lugansk to Uzhgorod, from Chernigov to Yalta about thermal accidents, freezing apartments, batteries, heat failure in the hospital. Thus, during the years of independence, Ukrainian society has gone from the social populism of the oligarchs to the social defolt and today, to the social genocide. Overcrowding has killed more people than all over Europe. These are the examples. The facts that need to be taken into account today. Especially since the Ministry of Social Policy, led by Tigypt, has recently issued a document for our authority entitled “Tesis on the task of local labour authorities and social protection of the population to ensure social pay”. One of the tasks, as indicated in the document, is to prevent any payment from being made today by court decisions in favour of citizens for whom payments have not yet been made. With such public policies and with such ministers of homeless people in Ukraine, there will soon be more than homeless dogs. Dear comrades and respected voters, the Company has developed and presented to the public a genuine anti-crisis programme. We have prepared a set of laws in the Supreme Council that are necessary for the implementation of our anti-crisis programme. Of course, the key is the Act on Nationalization and Public Property of privatized strategic sectors of the economy, as well as laws relating to State support for science, the agricultural sector, the ban on the sale of agricultural land, free education and medicine, a number of social orders in support of our young people and their future. Once again, without the adoption of these laws, it is impossible to resolve Ukraine's most acute social problems. On the other hand, the adoption of these laws is necessary but not sufficient. For these laws to work, the whole system of power needs to be fundamentally changed. In other words, return the country to the people. What do we need to remember, respectable? First. Capitalism, as a socio-economic formation, has survived, even its apologists, including at the Davos Summit, have openly said this. The second is to give up the hope that social justice and social harmony can be achieved in the system of capitalism. In other words, bourgeois shit is rare. And there is no mythical third path. The faction of the Company therefore offers its anti-crisis programme and package of anti-crisis laws, yet again saying that Ukraine's future is for socialism.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u13	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. The next will be Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u14	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. For the first month of 2012, it is possible to claim that this year in Ukrainian politics can be an apologetic for the use of various manipulative technologies to the detriment of real politics, real affairs, direct communication with people. I'm going to call a few pretty primitive, but I'm going to do some actual technology. Loudly and at every turn to accuse opponents of failing to fulfill their promises. At the same time, the tomb’s silence about failure by the critics themselves is not one of their own promises, none of the slogans at which they came to power in their own time. By doing so, to distract people from the fact that all their promises were broken, fucked, buried. In criticizing others, why not even mention the fulfillment of our promises? Are party chiefs recommending that this topic be avoided? Next technology. Those who have been in very high positions of authority for many years, with zero and often negative results, are trying hard to position themselves as new politicians, a future new authority. And by doing so, close the way to really new leaders who have never been in power. This is certainly a clever reception. At the same time, there is a safety net on the way to such manipulation by mass consciousness. That is, accepting candidates as popes as representatives of three categories. The first is the representatives of today's authorities. The second is the representatives of yesterday's government. And the third is active and proactive people who have never really been in power. Another example. Avalanche - shaped public statements with persistent hysterical intensities, with angry Filipicos addressed to opponents. And then, in a chamber environment, there's this suffocating conversation with them, with the jujuki smile and the excuses, "this is politics." More technology? Please. When the flag rally is centralized by party headquarters, there is hardly more than the rallyers themselves. And it's these foster parents who are using people as a crowd, and they're basically talking about TV cameras, and then you can throw them on your own. In this regard, it becomes clear and does not put so much pressure on Ukrainian citizens, which is certainly more difficult, but on the orientation of external factors that have their own and far from always altruistic interests in Ukraine. Why did you raise the subject? The transition begins in a meaningful way, I mean the legislative process, the last session of this chamber of parliament. What will she be like? There are many who want to tie legislative work to political technology. The benefits of which are, by the way, zero for ordinary people. What will happen to the mountain — the figurines and the perfumes or the routine, often ungrateful but necessary work? What will win: first, manipulative technologies, or second, technologies for development and progress? The faction of the People’s Party has done and will make an emphasis in its activities on the second. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u15	The word is Arsenij Yatsenuk, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next is Mikhailo Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u16	Dear people of Ukraine! Today's opening of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be a clear lesson for President Yanukovic and for the authorities to understand that they live in parallel reality with Ukraine and the Ukrainians. The government lives in its reality. Their reality is corruption. Their reality is billions of dollars. Their reality is power for themselves and for themselves. Their reality is improving life for those who are directly in power. Ukrainians also live in their reality. The reality of every Ukrainian is that in Eastern Europe the largest number of people killed by frost is Ukraine. It is now 135 people, and no one is responsible for it. The reality of Ukrainians is closed schools. They closed 112 schools last year. The total cost of maintaining these schools is 87 million dollars. Do you have any idea how much a helipad made for the President's helicopter in Canoe costs? 84 million dollars. If we do not build a helipad, our children can be taught in schools rather than closed schools. The reality of Ukrainians is closed hospitals. The reality of Ukrainians is an elevated retirement age. The reality of Ukrainians is high tariffs, low wages and the reality of Ukrainians is unemployment. And indeed, thieving and criminal authority. The way Parliament adopted the President today is not even a red line anymore, it's a requirement. This is a requirement for you to be in power, a requirement for President Yanukovic, to be appalled and remembered. Look what you've led the country to. Over the past two years, the country’s government debt has increased to $60 billion. You've had an extra 15 billion in two years. Who's going to give it back? I know where that money went. Much of this money has gone into your accounts, but it will have to be accounted for, and that will be the time. The opposition clearly realizes that this session will not reflect anything; it could not have been opened at all. We'd save taxpayers' money. No law of opposition is accepted by the overwhelming majority, we're making an alternative, we're proposing our pension reform, we're proposing our higher education system, we're proposing our tax code, we're offering a better life for Ukraine and for the Ukrainians, not for you, but you don't support it. I'll start with the main one. The opposition demands, and yesterday this decision was taken by all parties of the united opposition, to put into order the daytime issue of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of the impeachment of the President of Ukraine. I think that if President Janukovic is not in Parliament and is not afraid of his own people, he should define this bill as urgent and bring it to Parliament. The other one. The opposition calls for the consideration and adoption of all the laws relating to the cessation of political persecution in the country. We demand the release of Timoshenko and Lucenko. We demand that they be given the opportunity to participate in the election campaign. Third. We demand a real programme of economic stability of the country, which should be presented by the President and his government, and, in fact, a programme of government action that has not had it for the past two years. Finally. Today, in Odessa, political persecution began against the political party "The Front of Change". Tonight at 11 p.m., the former director of the Stallanat factory and the owner of the premises where he is independent were arrested.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u17	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u18	where the New Odessa channel is located. We demand to stop political persecution in the regions. And the last. The united opposition will not go to the polls. We're going to win the election, we're going to change the country and we're going to take you out of power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u19	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance. The next one will be the Hungarians, or who will be the performers?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u20	Dear President, distinguished colleagues! You know, for the sake of fairness, I would like to say that a thousand schools and 900 kindergartens have been closed during the last speaker's rule in Ukraine. So you can compare these numbers yourself. But in the wake of the political battalions, I think we have forgotten that today is the first day of the opening of a new session. Let me therefore congratulate you on the opening of the tenth session of the Sixth Council. This year will be a year of serious challenges for Ukraine. First of all, we have an obligation to maintain the political stability of the country's parliamentary elections year, which will provide a solid basis for further reforms. By consensus, all MPs have passed the People's Deputies Election Act, and our joint task is to establish mechanisms that will ensure a transparent and democratic electoral campaign. A dignified response to this challenge will bring our country closer to establishing an association with the European Union. Against the backdrop of difficult negotiations with Russia on the price of gas, the issue of Ukraine's energy security has become crucial. The need to diversify energy sources has reached the national security level of the State. We look forward to the development of a strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, with a turnover of $50 billion last year. And I look forward to reaching a compromise in the gas price negotiations. The $6 billion bonded to Ukraine, respected colleagues, could now be directed towards raising social standards and the development of regions. Further ratification of the free trade treaty with CIS countries could further contribute 2 per cent of GDP plus to the country's economic development. Work on the State budget will continue on the results of the first quarter. The document that we have accepted as an anti-crisis must become a development budget. By meeting this condition, we will be able to substantially increase pensions, social benefits and salaries for the budget. To that end, we need to maintain economic growth. This task will be one of the main challenges for power. In the face of a global crisis, the country needs a airbag. A sufficient supply of strength will ensure the quality of the executive vertical work, successful reforms, simplification of business conditions and a strong fight against corruption. Administrative reform is designed to enhance the effectiveness of the State. This year's focus is to move from the centre to the regions. The powers of local government will be expanded, but at the same time the quality of its work will be enhanced, as the image of authority in the eyes of a person is made up of what people see on the ground every day. With regard to Parliament's tasks, I will note that every national MP must be a citizen and only then a politician. We need responsible and quality legislative work, especially since the agenda of the session will be tense. The draft Code of Criminal Procedure, introduced by the President of the country, requires immediate adoption. It has been developed as part of the fulfilment of Ukraine's obligations to the Council of Europe, taking into account the recommendations made by the lead expert. The Code will be a serious step towards humanizing human rights relations, society and the State. In a fundamental way, a person of the country's legal system would be able to adopt a new version of the Laws on Lawyers, Public Prosecutor's Office, Judicial Administration and the Supreme Council of Justice. And in the end. Seeking answers to all the challenges would be unpredictable if we did not approach the main objective of reform: to improve the well-being of every citizen, 2012 should be a sign. The society expects us to make important decisions, and we are confident that this high responsibility will be an incentive, as a result.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u21	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u22	will stimulate the work of the deputy corps and save us from the loss of time in sometimes senseless opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u23	Yes, Andrew Cosemiakin, the "BOUT" faction, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u24	Good afternoon! The start of a new session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts us first in the task of solving urgent problems. For more than six months, Julia Timoshenko has been in prison for a court sentence that grossly violates the principles of just, impartial, and independent justice. It was because of the persecution of our leader, the leader of our political power and other opposition actors, such as Lucenko, Yvashchenko and the other 26 January of this year that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted an unprecedentedly harsh resolution. It clearly states that because of the numerous shortcomings of trials against former members of the government, it was not possible for the accused to obtain a fair trial in the sense that it was determined by article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. The main claims made by the Council of Europe were that articles 364 and 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code were too broad to apply and essentially allow the post facto criminalization of normal political decisions. This is contrary to the principles of the rule of law and is unacceptable. The Assembly therefore urges the Ukrainian authorities to amend these two articles of the Criminal Code without delay in accordance with the Council of Europe standards and to drop the charges against the former members of the government set out in these articles. Ukraine is a member of the Council of Europe, and what is more, our nation has decided on a course for European integration. Thus, the documents adopted by the European representative body are mandatory for implementation. That is why the President, the Ukrainian government, should immediately draw up a plan of concrete action to implement the Paris resolution because it was they who planned and implemented a plan to imprison the leaders of the opposition, which caused Europe to react harshly. The PARJE resolution states that if their demands are not met within a reasonable time, this will raise serious questions about the commitment of power to the principles of democracy and the rule of law, which should lead to a proper response from the assembly, including the application of sanctions. Today, such a sad prospect has taken on very real forms. Therefore, the BUT-Paternity faction in the Supreme Council proposes concrete real actions that allow our country to meet the basic requirements for Ukraine in the shortest term, as set out in the Paris resolution. First. To give the commission to a committee in foreign affairs of the Supreme Council to prepare an urgent plan for the implementation of the PARJA resolution, and after hearing a report by the committee head, to accept the relevant decision of the Supreme Council. The other one. Our faction urges the immediate consideration of bills that harmonize Ukrainian criminal legislation with democratic standards. These draft laws will eliminate the ambiguous interpretation of articles 364 and 365 of the Criminal Code and ensure the uniformity of their application. In turn, this will make it impossible to selectively use criminal legislation manually to prosecute and intimidate the opposition. According to PARE’S requirements, we should implement the relevant provisions of national legislation in strict terms. The BUT-Paternity faction claims that the higher legislative body of the State has no right to remove itself from the responsibility for the future of our country, and we must do everything possible to ensure that the requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are met immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations, I have traditionally asked the Secretariat to prepare the necessary assignments. Honourable National Deputies, according to article 85, part of the Constitution of Ukraine, are hearing the annual report of the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms. In the presentation of the annual report, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Sergey Tihypco, First Deputy Minister of Justice, Inna Jemeljyanova, representatives of the Presidential Administration, Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Supreme Court of Justice, Supreme Specialised Court for Civil and Criminal Affairs, Supreme Court of Commerce, Attorney-General, High Council of Justice, Head of Diplomatic Representations of Foreign States, representatives of public organizations. Dear colleagues, this is the order for consideration of the matter. To present a report from the Authorized Supreme Council on human rights, give it up to 30 minutes. To answer the questions of the national MPs, they are likely to arise and be with the national MPs in 15 minutes. In accordance with article 240 of the Rules for the Discussion of the Report, such a discussion decision may be made. At the same time, at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that we would discuss the matter with this procedure: a report and questions. As a result of the report and apparently in the process of questioning, the committee, together with the Commissioner, will need to work on and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an appropriate draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I, my dear colleagues, hope that you will support this very procedure. The word for the report is given to Nina Ivanovna Carpathian, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u26	Dear Head! Honorable national MPs, members of the government, representatives of the judiciary! Dear scientists, diplomats, representatives of the media, law enforcement agencies, dear fellow countrymen! Your opinion today is presented in the Annual Report of the Authorized Human Rights Commissioner, "The State for the Respect and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms in Ukraine", in the summary of 2011. Its full text has been distributed to Ukraine’s national deputies. As in many countries of the world, the human rights situation in Ukraine has become much more difficult under the influence of the global financial and economic crisis last year. The UN High Commissioner, Mrs. Pillay, at the 18th session of the UN Human Rights Council, rightly stated: "When the economy is in a difficult phase, the main burden of crisis is placed on the shoulders of poor people." These people need special protection, security, and not individual personalities that have caused financial and economic instability in the world. 2011 was the year of global social shocks from North Africa to Europe and the United States. More than ever, the crisis has exacerbated the world’s polarization of the poor and the rich, exacerbated discrimination, food crisis, migration, military conflicts, and violence. Global promotions for human dignity, justice, and the right to participate in national decisions have also spread objectively. Modern information networks, such as Facebook social networks, YouTube, Twitter, played a special role in the global awakening process. In Ukraine, we sensed the importance of social networks these days when the Ex.ua file was closed. Without questioning the need for copyright protection, I would like to point out that, in the context of widespread poverty in society, this resource for hundreds of thousands of people in Ukraine remains now or not the only form of access to human cultural acquisitions. I am convinced that a person’s right to free access to the Internet must be free and recognized as a fundamental human right. Similarly, the use of the Internet as a means of manipulating and interfering with a person’s privacy will not be tolerated. During the past year, our country has been alert to the European community. Ukraine successfully presided over the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, which, on the one hand, contributed to the realization of our European integration aspirations, and on the other, increased the level of responsibility for the fulfilment of the commitments made by our State at the time of joining the Council of Europe. As an ombudsman for my part, I also tried to actively promote the dialogue between Ukraine and the European community. In this direction, our fruitful work with the European Council Commissioner for Human Rights, the MEPs, the leaders of the European Parliament, the members of the most influential factions in its membership, the deputies and members of delegations from the parliamentary co-operation of Ukraine, the EU. Following the initiative of the Head of EU Representation in Ukraine, Mr Taschera, I met with the ambassadors of EU Member States accredited in Ukraine. It was an open, interactive dialogue on systemic human rights issues. I am convinced that despite all the difficulties these problems should not be a hindrance to the integration of our state. It should be noted that in this year, the Parliamentary Assembly, in its resolution, has welcomed the ambitious reform agenda of the Ukrainian government. [[1862]] However, she expressed concern about existing systemic problems, particularly in the judicial system. She also pointed out that the prosecution of former officials, including ex-Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko and others: Eugene Korniyczuk, Yuri Lucenka. Valery Yvashchenka was involved in the criminalization of political decisions that were contrary to the rule of law. As the Ombudsman of Ukraine, I want to say that I have had to take concrete measures to protect human rights within my mandate on each of these matters. To be honest, the resonant cases of former high - ranking workers at the same time allowed attention to a wide range of long - term problems in the area of pretrial, judicial, and detention conditions, which also apply to the proportion of tens of thousands of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. I am convinced that Ukraine's report has made every effort to properly implement this resolution by PARJE, which was voted in favour of both the majority and the opposition. Increasing Ukraine's responsibility for international and European standards in the field of human rights and freedoms is extremely important in view of and for the future of our chairmanship of the OSCE in 2013. The honourable national deputies, the basis of the monitoring provided in the annual report to you, are, above all, appeals to authorized citizens of Ukraine, foreigners, refugees, stateless persons. They are the sensitive barometer of society’s most acute problems and a real assessment of the power to solve them. During the past year, 164 thousand persons, more than twice as many as in the previous year, were asked to protect their rights and freedoms. Please look at the screen. Since the beginning of the work of the Human Rights Commissioner, nearly 1 million persons have been contacted. More than half of the reports, which is 56 percent, refer to civil rights violations, such as the right to a fair trial and a chronic failure to enforce judicial decisions. 17 per cent of reports relate to violations of social rights, such as deprivation of benefits, compensation, pension violations, provision of material assistance and subsidies, non-payments to heroin mothers, etc. Thirdly, nearly 14 percent are reports of violations of the economic rights of citizens: work, due and timely payment, land ownership. 12 percent of the reports are about violations of personal rights, such as the right to personal privacy, torture, and the State’s involvement in the private life of its citizens. About 2 percent of the reports involved violations of political rights. In particular, I would like to point out that almost 100,000 Orthodox citizens of Ukraine last year have appealed to the Commissioner to protect their rights to an alternative form of calculation of individuals - taxpayers, without applying an identification number, and with any electronic documentation. Cooperation between the Commissioner for Human Rights and the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the government, the judicial branch of power, law enforcement officials, and local executives and local self-government is an important part in the protection of human rights. The year 2011 began with the meeting of the Ombudsman with President Viktor Fedorović Janukovic of Ukraine, who had a comprehensive discussion on human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. The 660 projects authorized in 2011 carried out an expert study, the legal and regulatory acts reviewed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And 52 of them made specific proposals to the Commissioner directly at the government meeting. Under the Government Law, I have the right to participate directly in such meetings. The Ombudsman of Ukraine worked constructively with parliamentary committees, factions, groups, the leadership of the Supreme Council. I will point out that the Ombudsman’s Ombudsman’s office received 3,000 288 parliamentary requests and written appeals from Ukrainian national deputies. I mean, on the average, each of the deputies of all the calls went to the ombutsman of Ukraine at least once. In 2011, this was 208 or 30 percent more than in the previous year. Please look at the screen. Unbiased treatment of issues that are being violated by the national deputies of Ukraine’s various factions and groups, the desire to resolve these problems together, based solely on international and national legislation, was and is the rule of my activity in the office of the Commissioner for Human Rights. The Ombudsman pays particular attention to the fight against poverty, the protection of the labour and social rights of our citizens. The most integrated indicator of standard of living is the index of human life. Last year, Ukraine ranked 76 among 187 countries. This is lower than the average for Europe and Central Asia. What is the reason? Unfortunately, there is a demographic crisis in Ukraine. Although for the first time in a given area, there are some positive developments. So far, figures have not been reached on this issue in 1990, both in life expectancy, 70 and 4 years in 2010 versus 70 and 7 in 1990, and in terms of gross national income per person. In 2010, in particular, it amounted to US$6,000,530 in Ukraine, compared with US$8,000,920 in 1990. In fact, according to a high level of education, Ukraine maintains such an index of human development. As in previous years, the problem of overcoming poverty in Ukraine remains one of the most current and decisive for Ukraine’s national security. According to official data, the country’s poverty rate is 24 percent. However, virtually 1 in 8 people falls into the category of extreme poverty or poverty in a state of acute reprisal. This means that people do not have the capacity to participate fully in social life because of their poverty, because of lack of basic knowledge and capabilities, or because of discrimination. Thus, about 40 percent of Ukraine’s households are in a state of acute reprisal in Ukraine. And most of them are families with children and the rural population. The Ukrainian phenomenon is considered the poverty of the working population. The majority of citizens are automatically in poverty after retirement because of low pensions. Please look at the screen. 74 percent of pensioners received a pension of up to 1,200 dollars. 11 percent is the minimum cost of living. Over 145 thousand pensioners had a lower living minimum pension. Today, the President of Ukraine detailed and objectively analyzed the challenges involved and outlined ways to improve the situation. At the same time, a perfectly fair negative has led to a rise in the retirement age of women and an increase in the insurance age. A human rights officer made proposals for pension reform, including during parliamentary hearings. In order to reform the pension system to meet people’s expectations, it is necessary to create new, high-quality jobs, decisively pull the economy out of the shadows, legalize wages, and reform wages. Failure to comply with valid laws regarding the social rights and guarantees of war veterans and children, the Chernobylites, and other tax categories has caused social protests. And it's not just the lack of financial resources, people resent the annual cuts in social law articles when the State Budget is adopted. I am convinced that the human right to State guarantees of social protection must be determined solely by laws and be indexed by increasing the cost of life. The dramatic events of the summer last year in the village of Billa Ravenska district, when 16 people were burned to death in a social institution, shed light on the very acute problems of people who for various reasons were left without the support of their family and loved ones. Along with the leadership of the Government of Ukraine, including the Prime Minister and his Deputy Prime Minister, including Sergija Tihypak, we have been able to rebuild the district social services centre and open the rural family medicine clinic in the autumn. I am convinced that this fact has indicated that state social programs for the support of people with disabilities and the elderly should necessarily include social insurance, provide the necessary medical staff for the care of bedridden people, including the possibility of their evacuation in case of emergencies. The Ombudsman’s special concern is the protection of the rights of the child. I thank the National Deputies of all factions for their adoption last April of the Order of the Special Report of the Commissioner for Human Rights, "The State for the Respect and Protection of the Rights of the Child in Ukraine", which was presented to me on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the ratification by Ukraine of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. That year, the Ombudsman received over a thousand 300 appeals from almost 3,000 children and adults in the interests of the child, which is one and a half times more than in the previous year. The most pressing problems remain the protection of the child’s right to life and health, overcoming child poverty, homelessness, carelessness, social orphans, and violence against children. Unfortunately, as you know, honourable national deputies have recently increased the incidence of child deaths during the educational process and, in particular, in physical education. I am convinced that additional measures are needed to promote healthy lifestyles, daily exercise classes, sports courses, participation of all children, regardless of the wealth of families, and extracurricular forms of employment. During my speech at the All-Ukrainian Council for the Protection of the Rights of the Child under the presidency of the President last January, my meeting took place and we were determined on this meeting. I noted that the new challenge for Ukraine was the sale of children using modern reproductive technologies, including surrogate motherhood. Last November, I submitted an application to the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General for the prevention of trafficking in children as a result of inadequate legal regulation, the use of auxiliary reproductive technologies in Ukrainian medical facilities. I hope that the response of the government, the Attorney General's Office, to the Ombudsman's proposals will be immediate and effective. I believe that solving the urgent problem of protecting a child’s rights is possible, including by hearing the voice of the child himself. As an Ombudsman, I welcome the adoption in December 2011 of the UN General Assembly of the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child to a petition. Special attention is paid to the protection of the rights of Ukrainian migrant workers. Five or seven million of our fellow countrymen continue to seek a better fate outside Ukraine because of the inability to earn a decent living. On May 8, 2011, in the mountain village of Kolochava, Zakarpatta, the first in Ukraine to commemorate the farewell of a man and his family, was erected by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Stanislav Arzevtina, on the initiative of the Zacarpatta. Migration, primarily labour, has become a systemic problem in Ukraine that requires adequate action by the authorities. On May 30, 2011, the President of Ukraine approved the concept of State migration policy by his decree, and finally the State Migration Service was created as the central civilian executive authority, which is also to protect Ukrainian rights abroad at a systemic level. As an ombudsman, I continue to defend the rights of Ukrainian sailors abroad, including the rights of members of the crew of the ship Leman Timber, who were released from captivity by the Somali pirates back in 2008. And after that, three years of lawsuits for seamen have been held in support of the Ombudsman to the German shipowner. Finally, in 2012, the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region made a case-by-case and unprecedented decision to compensate a foreign shipowner for damage to Ukrainian sailors. This is the first decision in the world to protect the rights of sailors, and Ukraine has done so. The human right to a fair trial. A human rights officer is undergoing systematic monitoring of the enjoyment of the human right to a fair trial. On January 1, 2012, the European Court of Human Rights ruled 820 cases concerning Ukraine, 82 of which noted violations of article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights to a fair trial. [[Please look at the screen]] In my opinion, only judicial and legal reform can make a fundamental difference. It really started with the adoption of the new Law on Justice and the Status of Judges, and the next step was the adoption by the Supreme Council of an extremely important law, which we had been waiting for for for ten years, the Free Legal Aid Act. The President of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council a draft of the new Criminal Procedure Code, which, in its resolution of January 26, 1862, called for its adoption as soon as possible. I'm going to point out that the project includes the principles of position and propositions that were expressed by the ombutman, such as the elimination of the Institute of Additional Investigation, the introduction of home arrest, the reduction of custody periods. At the time of adoption and the new legislation, it's about the lawyer and the prosecutor's office. I remain in my position that judicial reform can finally take place only if the judges of Ukraine are elected by their own people. Human rights to a fair trial are brutally violated because of chronic failure to enforce judicial decisions. Ukraine doesn't make about 33 court decisions, percent of the court's decisions. Please look at the screen. Ukraine’s decisions and the European Court of Human Rights are also critically low. Today, in the speech by Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, I can continue this subject in my report, which you have in writing. The Ombudsman’s monitoring shows that law enforcement officials and judges, unfortunately, continue to abuse the right to arrest. This problem has been accumulated in Ukraine for decades. In recent times, however, it has become particularly acute, showing that there has been almost double the number of appeals made to the Authorized Human Rights Commissioner in this regard in recent years. After my January 2011 meeting with the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovic publicly urged all law enforcement officials and judges not to allow the abuse of the right to be arrested and used as an exceptional measure of precaution. On January 16, you know, there was a written statement by the President on this matter. As an ombudsman, I tried to solve this problem of over-apprehension in both the General Prosecutor’s Office and the capital prosecutor’s office in the city of Kiev. On many issues, I found understanding from the Attorney General of Ukraine and his attorneys. However, years of delay in solving this problem forced the European Court of Human Rights to take a last year’s decision on "Harchenko v. Ukraine". The Court drew attention to the non-motivability of the decisions of the national courts on arrests, noting that they should be applied in the event of a real threat to the avoidance of a person from the investigation and the trial. This position of the European Court of Justice is completely in line with the position of the Ombudsman of Ukraine. Moreover, in the last two years alone, the six decisions of the European Court of Justice have been based on the legal position given by the Ombudsman of Ukraine. It is especially impressive when people are thrown for playing with their health. There, the 28 - year - old Alexander Rabeyko, who had been brought to trial in a difficult state, was sentenced to a hospital, where she had unfortunately died three days later. For this disgraceful fact, I have referred to the Supreme Qualification of Judges of Ukraine for bringing to justice the disciplinary responsibility of the two judges of the Shevchenkov District Court, who for a year and a half have tried the case on the charge of Rabeiko in theft and have cynically ignored even the direction of the CISA to change its precautionary action. Another factor contributing to the violation of the right to freedom and personal integrity is the judicial burden. This was also confirmed by a personal reception authorized by the human rights of the prisoners of the Kyiv Seizo in January, and it may be said that my personal reception at the Kyiv Seizo takes six months. Most of the accepted persons — more than three hundred — complained about unwarranted terms of custody and judicial burden. Some of them are awaiting a court decision, in fact, serving the entire sentence here. So last February, I was introduced to the Attorney-General, to the Heads of the Council of Judges, to the High Qualification of Judges and to the High Council of Justice on the violation of the human right to liberty and personal integrity and the consideration of cases within a reasonable time. This was done in the case of the capital city of Kiev and Kiev. I want to say that both the Qualified Commission and the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine have responded positively to this appeal by the Ombudsman of Ukraine and I can tell you more closely that the practice of recommending judges to elect a higher office has stopped, until the judge completes all the cases that he is conducting. To my conviction, Ukraine needs, not the construction of new prisons, but the cessation of the abuse of the right to arrest. A particular problem is torture and cruel, inhumane behavior. An example of neglect by militia personnel of the human right to life is the resonant case of the death of 20-year-old student Igor Indila in the Shevchenkov Police Department of Kiev. Look at the screen. From the early days, I stated that the death of this student was caused by serious bodily harm in the police administration of paradise. A human rights official, along with his youth, has defended the dignity and dignity of a man who has already died. And during the course of the meeting, 320 people were interviewed. The Ombudsman was instructed by his representative to participate directly in the criminal proceedings on the part of the parents of the deceased student. By the way, in this room today, there's a dead Igor's mother in the balcony who's honoring Ludmila Stepanovna. Accept our compassion and our support. In my view, the establishment of the real conditions of this crime is a matter of honor for the entire legal and judicial system. Therefore, in the interests of the deceased student’s family, I was accused of the court’s decision to appeal. According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, 27 deaths of Ukrainian citizens were reported in the premises of other parts and isolation centres last year, of which 14 were suicides. I examine all these facts in detail in my thorough annual report. Now look at the screen now, if possible, now I'm asking you to give the boxing that we have in the courts, and actually none of you have ever seen, except those prisoners who are being brought to court, and where Ukrainian citizens are being held in these cages for a few hours, including in the central court of Kiev, the cave. That's why I'm about to meet with the Home Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Honorable Vitaly Zachartenko, so that we can decide on a set of issues of human rights violations by law enforcement, including when we sign a bilateral agreement. I consider it an important step towards the creation by the President of Ukraine in September 2011 of a Commission on Torture Warning. I am convinced that the next step is to fulfil Ukraine's obligations under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture. And we need to create a separate body as a national organ independent of torture prevention. I have been stressing this for many years, and I believe that only this question can help us to avoid torture, which is far more important than then fighting for the rights of the victims. In my report, I devoted a particular problem to the law enforcement of the law in the penitentiary institutions. I can only say that the number of prisoners and convicts has increased by 8,000 over the past three years, or almost 6 percent. People are still sleeping in turn, even in the Lukyanovo SIZO there are thousands of places missing, and this is the situation in many other insulators. It's a woman's body that's now being built, as they say. Now you can see there's a picture on the screen. But this does not solve the problem. Of course, the Swiss helped us. I think it's important to stop, stressing again, abuse the right to arrest. Last one. I want to say that freedom of speech. There is no political censorship in Ukraine, but most of the media remains under the censorship of money. In all, 65 journalists were killed in the years of independence in Ukraine, according to the Kiev independent media union. There is still no point in the case of journalist Georgia Gongadze, Vasil Klimentiev. Mrs. Lesia Gongadze is in the hall with us today. And today we bow our heads to your courage, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u27	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u28	I'm convinced that we need to move on to practical actions to create social television and radio talk against commercial and clan interests. And to the end. I have tried to give you, honourable national deputies, honest and true information. Because the truth is more than anything. It is the elixir that can cure severe social illnesses. I want to express my sincere gratitude to all who have helped me to defend and renew my rights and freedoms with my apathy and support of the Ukrainian Ombudsman's team, to restore people's trust in justice, because everyone has the right to happiness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Yes, please, 15 minutes, Blackwill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u30	Dear Mrs. Karpachev, I have a question for you: you said that you met with the President in early 2011. Do you not feel that this meeting has not resulted in anything useful that has taken place this year? After all the international human rights indicators, both economic and political, and social, has Ukraine plummeted? So why don't you conclude that Janukovic and human rights are incompatible? That today's power and human rights are incompatible. And that the Party of Regions and Human Rights is incompatible. Thanks for the weight.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u31	Thank you for your question, Your Honor. I want to say that the meeting with the President of Ukraine has taken place with a number of issues of respect for human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. I tried to prove in this report what steps, despite all the complexity, the government, the President, the Parliament, we were all with you, though, I still say, despite years of problems in the field of human rights and freedoms in our country, we tried to do in the previous year 2011. It seems to me that in my brief, in my opening presentation, I have touched on many of the problems that are already being addressed by Parliament at the time of the President's submission. This includes, among other things, the long-term new Code of Criminal Procedure, expected for more than 10 years. I am convinced that this should actually be a revolution in the area of judicial and legal reform, which can help us all solve a lot of problems, including the President as a guarantor of human rights. But I want you to know, my conversation with the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u32	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u33	My conversation with the President was honest, frank and critical. And it seems to me that the President listens to the proposals made by the Ombudsman of Ukraine, and the case of the executive authority is to make recommendations by the Ombudsman of Ukraine, which are accepted, by the way, and by the annual and special reports of Parliament's ruling, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u34	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u35	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Mrs. Nina, you may have seen that such an opening of another session, as it was in Ukraine today, was probably not in any parliament when the trivial text, the banal text of the President, was sinking in the cry "Julie-will!" I want to say that the two cadences that you had served as an ombudsman from Ukraine were very complex and uneven in your biography. I'm sure in your first cadence, you've been out of existence for years to protect someone in some petty matter. But I must admit that at the end of your stay in this very responsible position you have indeed acted as a real ombudsman by visiting the prison and Julia Timoshenko, and by making appropriate very open, frank and harsh statements. You went to Yuri Lucenka's trial and also responded accordingly. You said yourself that you spoke to the President of the Tate. Please tell me when you leave this position, will a resolution of the Council of Europe be implemented, your opinion, will it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Volodymyr! I want to tell you that in 2001 I was also defending Mrs. Timoshenko’s rights when she was imprisoned at the Lukyanowski S.I.A. We must always be objective and just. Similarly, in 2005, I defended the rights of prisoners through political persecution, the deceased, unfortunately, Eugene Kushnarov, Boris Kolesnikov, the head of the Ternopil district council of Mr. Zukinsky, and numerous ordinary citizens, who unfortunately are rarely mentioned with you in this room. With regard to the resolution adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly. I noted in my statement that it is very important that the adoption of this resolution is critical, but it is balanced at the same time, it is with respect to Ukraine as a member of the Council of Europe. And it contains a series of serious, systemic proposals for us all to be together, and authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u37	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u38	Both the authorities and the opposition unitedly implemented the resolution of PARJE, which you asked in your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u39	The raven Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u40	Dear Nina Ivanovna! We know you as the most authoritative man in the international arena who has saved the lives of hundreds of sailors. And for that, the sailors have never told you a great deal of thanks. Release them from piracy. And the last situation. When five emissaries in Greece were arrested and given a thousand 200 years' imprisonment, you were directly involved. And they were released three years later. I could keep doing that. And in your report, you failed to do everything or say everything you did. Thank you so much, Nina Ivanovna! But now the election of the High Council is under way, i.e. your post. I see the deadlines are up. And there are rumours that you seem to want to give up your authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u41	Let me answer that. I want to say that this position of Commissioner does not belong to Karpachov, this position belongs to the entire Ukrainian people. And to my conviction, if there will ever be any change to the Constitution of Ukraine, I am convinced that the entire Ukrainian people must choose a person for this position. Even though they choose national MPs, they give a loan of trust, but this position, I think, has to go through a national election when it comes to perspective. As far as protecting the rights of sailors is concerned, I would like to thank all the MPs who have supported me in protecting the rights of the Faina sailors and the Lehmann Timber and our other sailors who have been captured. I hope that in the near future you will hear a special report from the Ombudsman of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of Ukrainian sailors, including pirates. At least I remain in this position until the elections are held, so I will be able to present such a report to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u42	Volodymyr Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u43	Vladimir Stretović, Christian Democratic Union of Ukraine. Nina Ivanovna, the establishment and establishment of the Institute of Human Rights Commissioner in Ukraine, took place directly as a result of your participation. And the fact that he's working for us and the fact that he's attached to the job in this is a huge credit to you. So I want to thank you for being the initiator of creation, putting it on the rails, and this institution works. The way someone likes it, someone doesn't. But actually, this institution in the state is, and I want to thank you for that. But I have a question of a pragmatic nature. Tell us, please, and what will explain the situation that we have in connection with what we do not know about, but the downward trend in prisoners observed from 2008 to 2010, suddenly increased by 7,000 in the last two years, and today we have 154 of our fellow prisoners in places of disqualification, 154 thousand. And you, as Commissioner, have access to places of deprivation, say, and what prisons do we have that are the scariest, and what does the Ombudsman do to keep the veins from being cut, the protests, the rejection of food and everything? This is a vital aspect of the work of the Commissioner for Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u44	In some countries, there is even a single representative of the Ombudsman who works to protect the rights of prisoners, and I stress that we need to create this problem as a systemic problem for Ukraine, and it wasn't born yesterday, and you know that problem for a long time, with a beard, but, in fact, Ukraine remains one of the leaders in Europe by the number of arrests I've been stressing for almost 10 years. And I pay attention, mentality, the legal culture of first prosecutors, investigators, now judges who make decisions must be fundamentally changed. And we all have to help them. Arrest, as an exceptional measure of precaution. Then, in effect, there will be only murderers, terrorists, rapists, and pedophiles in the prisons.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u45	Ivan Stojko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u46	Ivan Stojko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Jaroslav Kendzior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u47	Please, Kendzior's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u48	Jaroslav Kenzier, Party "For Ukraine!".. Nino Ivanovno, you have been sentenced to life imprisonment by Vladimir Panasenko for more than three years. In your report you write, "At present, this man continues to be punished. But the conduct of the Ukrainian Ombudsman, who lasts more than three years, demonstrates the injustice of the Supreme Court's judgment and the need for its review." All efforts to review the matter and make a just decision are not yet found, as it were. In your opinion, it would be necessary to change the laws of Ukraine something in the Criminal Code or in others in order to be able to.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. Indeed, Vladimir Panasenko’s conduct has been in my personal life for over three years. I have the legal conclusion of experts, to whom I have personally joined that this person is illegally convicted, sentenced in fact to life imprisonment. I would like to thank you, too, that you are carefree as Ukraine's national deputy, and continue with the Panasenko family and the Ombudsman to fight for the return of this man to full life and his freedom. What should we do? In my opinion, today, first of all, the Supreme Special Court of Criminal and Civil Affairs, which has already been created in the course of the new judicial and legal reform, is absolutely clear in this case, on other criminal matters, is to prove to us, Ukrainians, that the reform was not in vain. I have no hope, unfortunately, of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. I've sent a lot of appeals then, but my appeal to this very court of higher expertise, which is only a year away, if they look at this case, I'm convinced that justice will prevail.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u50	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Nina Ivanovno! Today, at the international level, the very difficult situation of foreign citizens in the countries of the so-called Arab Spring, North Africa in particular, Libya, and so on, questions are being discussed. How do you appreciate the situation with the Ukrainians who were detained by the rebels in Libya? They've been trapped for months. Are they expected to return to their homeland, and what is being done by the Ombudsman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor Ivan Vasilovich. I think you all know what a tough situation it is in Libya right now. Any word that can be defended can be judged, you know, by the Transitional Government of Libya in its own way, so I want to say the main thing. Ukraine did not abandon its citizens in Libya. The Ministry of Foreign Intelligence shared with the Ombudsman of Ukraine, and there were my references to Mrs. Catherine Ashton, to the Red Cross, to Amnesty International. Together, we are now doing what is necessary in order that, despite all the difficulties of the near future, family members will embrace their loved ones, whom they are waiting for in the Fatherland. Again, Ukraine has not abandoned its citizens and is doing everything that is addictive and even impossible under the extraordinary conditions of today’s Libya.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u53	Vladimir Danilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u55	Please, Peter Stepanovitch Zibenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u56	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Honourable Nina Ivanovna, a recent initiative of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization, has been called upon by a number of leaders of veteran organizations who have universal status: the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Head of the Constitutional Court, to refer to the last two infamous decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. You know what this is about. We believe that in such a cynical way, Ukraine has destroyed one of the most perfect legislative bases in the social protection of veterans in post-Radians space. Tell me, please, how Human Rights Commissioner, how you appreciate these decisions, which gave you the right in fact to handle matters manually by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u57	Thank you for this very important and painful question to many citizens of our country. First. 92 Article 92 of the Constitution clearly states that human rights and freedoms are governed exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. The other one. 124th article of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the jurisdiction of the general courts extends to all legal relations. So today, I would like to object to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to some extent that the government could not be allowed to regulate the amount of social benefits depending on the budget's capabilities, it had to be clearly defined. But today the government has taken some steps. I was at this session, a painful session, where the question was being considered, where it was actually decided that 90 percent, for example, of the Chernobyls and other tax categories are now receiving pensions and allowances more than twice as much as they had before, but 10 percent, who have already been sentenced in court, I think the law of retroactive force is not available, and they have to be paid in full. Of course, it is a decision to some extent and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u58	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u59	Ukraine's decision "Ivanov v. Ukraine" is the first pilot decision that has actually put us on the verge of survival in this situation. The government is looking for a way out. As soon as the economic situation changes, I am convinced that we will make a radical change in that direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u60	Yes, the questions are complete. Thank you, Nina Ivanovna, for the report, for the answers. [[Applause]] We are considering: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption. [[Registration number 9474]] There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. Is there no objection? Please be supportive. [[12:56:42]] For 225 Offer supported. We're talking about a reduced procedure. And the First Deputy Justice Minister Ivanovna Jemelyanov will report, please. Prepare Behiz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u61	Thank you. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, is presented for your consideration with a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption. I want to say that this project proposes to amend more than forty legislative acts. The proposed amendments to the bill are aimed, inter alia, at agreeing on provisions relating to the conduct of a special examination of persons who claim to serve as State officials or local authorities. It is also envisaged that special laws require public officials to submit a declaration on property, income, expenditure, and financial obligations. Taking into account the specificities of the activities of individual government agencies and services, it is proposed that the rules on restrictions on the work of loved ones be established in the context of direct subordination, as well as the release from work of those who are held responsible for corruption. In particular, the bill proposes to amend the Labour Code to establish grounds for the dismissal of a person from work in connection with the court’s decision to bring him to justice for corruption, as well as for his being directly subordinated to a close person without the possibility of transferring him to another job. The draft Law also proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code in part of the mandatory posting of a copy of the sentence at the place of work of the convicted person, in the event that a person's conviction provides for his dismissal from work. In this context, I would like to say that, given that the Supreme Council at this plenary week is invited to consider in its first reading a new edition of the Criminal Procedure Code, these proposals may, of course, be implemented in the new CPC. For the purpose of warning of corruption, the project also proposes to set limits on admission to work by public authorities of persons accused of committing crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u62	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u63	and which have been subject to administrative incursion in recent years for acts of corruption. I would like to point out that such an approach will be an effective deterrent to corruption and will greatly enhance the integrity of the authorities involved. In addition, in the bill, separate rules of the basic anti-corruption law find not only their reflection but I continue to develop. This involves, in particular, the implementation of individual recommendations by the Council of Europe Group of States against Corruption. [[GREECE]] Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to support this bill in the first reading. It is extremely important, and it amends a number of legislative acts to lead, to continue bringing legislation into line with the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u64	Thank you, Inno Ivanovna. A report from the chairman of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime, the corruption of Beviz Valeriy Ananiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In order to stay out of the tree, I am very brief. On July 1, 2011, the Anticorruption Act entered into force. In this connection, in chapter VIII of this law, you, the national deputies, have commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make appropriate changes to the current legislation in connection with the adoption of this law. I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice in the person of the first deputy minister of Emilian Inna Ivanovna, the Cabinet of Ministers, for the colossal work that has been done. So the law itself is technical, but it is extremely necessary, because 34 laws have been changed and 7 statutes now in force in our country. So the committee, after considering the proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers, asks you to support this bill and accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u66	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Anatoly Matvienko. Prepare Gregory Smitsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u67	Prince, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u68	Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! You remember how much pain we've had here, this Anti-Corruption Act. And I actually agree with the head of the committee that unless we adopt an entire package of legislation that is actually provided for by this law, this law will not be fully operational. And obviously we have to accept it. But there is also an understanding that, unfortunately, we see right now that the law itself, the body of the law, needs to be changed. He needs correction and from the point of view of the practice that we've faced in six months of his activity, and from the point of view of it, it's too bad that, at the time of the adoption of the law, there must have been a lot of haste, including technical legal errors, which, in my opinion, make it somewhat difficult to implement it in practice. For example. With regard to this declaration, which has now been referred to, it is, as it were, a beacon of all law. Regrettably, the text of the declaration itself refers to rules of law that do not exist in the law itself, and so forth. This is the result of this standard, and in practice it will be dead. On the other hand, there are claims which are amply justified, to this bill, that there is an attempt to amend not only the laws, but to separate legal acts of a sublegal nature, which is absolute absurd, contradicts generally the philosophy of the Constitution, the Law on Legislation. In view of these circumstances, I think that as basic to work, this bill can probably be adopted in the first reading. But it still needs to be worked hard, because, unfortunately, like the basic body of the law, it does not solve the questions that the authors of the bill were asking. Therefore, it is not a complex solution to the issue of combating corruption in the specific laws to which it changes. And so we're going to have a situation where not only is that law declarant in many problems, but it's not going to work to the full. And we'll go into the deaf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u70	Thank you. Gregory Smythech, please. Get ready, Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, the changes proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers in the current legislative act are improving in principle the laws that we have so far. And maybe in some part it'll make it impossible to do a little bit of corruption, in my opinion, which unfortunately covered our Ukraine. If we go back to statistics and what Nina Ivanovna has just told us, that 1 million 300,000 people have just applied for help from the Authorized Human Rights Authority, I'm sure that this large part involved either arbitrary or excessive, so to speak, control in coffees by the administrative apparatus, which today in principle has a negative impact on the development of society, on the development of the economy. 53 percent of the statistics show that people already view corruption or as a means of solving one or the other. That is, they no longer hope for a legal solution. And the answer to the question is, by giving bribes or other rewards to an official to settle legitimate issues. And this has already become a common tragedy for our society, which drinks negative for the development of human consciousness, like the formation of an honest, decent person, there and, of course, into the developed economic sphere of our nation. What I think we should do and what we should do in principle. Of course, the law that was passed last year and the changes that are being made now improve the component. But in principle it cannot solve the problem of corruption that exists in our country. What should we do? The number of questions that can be considered by an official in dealing with a particular question that a person may ask should be avoided. Especially in the sphere of economic space of our state. We need to completely limit any license, any license, any consent, and so on and so forth. The more we reduce them, the less corruption. Let me give you an example of how.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u72	Do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u73	Let me give you one last example. Whatever our attitude toward Georgia. But Georgia, from the permit documents, when it was reduced to 7, in the economic sphere, corruption was almost completely destroyed or it was absent. As long as we don't get through this, corruption in our country will dominate. And one last question. If our economy is in the shade of 40 to 60 percent, and we're not doing anything to de-teenise it, it's for the benefit of the officials who are now influencing it. Because in this area, they find it very nice to fish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u74	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u75	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to certain things that we may need to correct if we are ever to accept this bill as a whole. Well, three things. First. Here is article 9 of the proposed law, where the law restricts the work of loved ones. That's absolutely right. But in the conclusion of the scientific expertise, I agree with him, this is an event or an opportunity that is predicted, and if it comes to, for example, the family of military personnel. Because this applies to both military personnel and civilians. If it's a small town, if it's a military town, then the lieutenant's wife, who was directed there, can't work if we get out? Well, what's that? It turns out that this is a restriction on the right of a citizen to work. No, I'm reading exactly what it's like, but I'm not making anything up. Obviously, such rightful things should not conflict with the fundamental right of a person to work. One second. It is said that in the last three years of administrative involvement in the commission of corruption, a person cannot be hired. Well, logic is right, but there is legislation. That does not change the proposed bill, which makes it absolutely clear that a person who is subject to an administrative obligation, within a year from the date of the completion of the contract, if he has not committed a new administrative offence, is considered to have not been subject to an administrative burden. This needs to be decided. Otherwise, there's a total legal conflict that we immediately establish from the very beginning. One more moment. I think it's principled enough, although maybe it's segmental. This is about changes to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u76	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u77	changes to the prosecutor's office, in particular the need for a code of professional ethics and conduct of prosecutors, which is first approved by the All-Ukrainian Conference and then by the Attorney-General of Ukraine. But looking at the contents of this article, this code of conduct is not a legislative act. And if it is not a legislative act, its standards will not be binding on officials. I've indicated exactly three specific things that I think need to be adjusted. Otherwise it'll be simple, it won't work easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u78	Question completed. Let's be clear. Question completed. Short-term procedure. Dear colleagues! I didn't see anyone insisting on factions. You can do this, Rybeka. Who? Rybeka, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, my friends! Our faction will support this law and I'll tell you why. Ukraine had been adopting this law for 10 years. We promised to implement 25 GRECO recommendations for our nation. With the adoption of a package of celebrities that has ceased to exist, we have implemented 18 of these recommendations. There are eight of them in part. But from that law there is, for today. We have to rule him and rule him. Because all the recommendations in the same law are disregarded. Therefore, we offer to support those who are and to participate in the further development and adoption of laws. A whole package prepared by the committee. And once again, I ask you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Each speaker was right about the law being passed. As well as the fact that this law affects a broad field of legislation, a broad field of legislation, including that, unfortunately, does not refer to laws, but rather to instructions. So, of course, the profile committee will have to work seriously enough. You know the conclusion of the Chief Research Administration. In general, it suggests that it be sent for processing. But I think we'd better do it this way. What we're going to take as a basis. And we'll ask the profile committee to contact the other committees. Because this is the legislation that we are changing, and it has to do with not just one committee that is defined as a profile, but almost half of the committees of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I am addressing both the Behbeaz Committee of Profiles and other committees of interest in this law, and I am sure that you will consider and make your suggestions so that we can adopt such a law in the second reading. Now, I ask you to support Bill 9473 on amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Act, please vote. [[13:13:05]] For 301 Decision taken. We are considering: the draft Law on Reforming and Improving the Involvement System in Environmental Protection, the Rational and Inexhaustible Use of Natural Resources, and Environmental Security, and the Reduction of Regulatory Pressure on Hostages. [[Bill 9139 registration number]] There's a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure, please identify yourself. Not yours, not yours. You hear it like I do. [[13:13:51]] For 215 Supported. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Mormul Dmitry Dmitrovich. Get ready for Seminosi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Reforming and Improving the Involvement System in Environmental Protection, the Rational and Inexorable Use of Natural Resources and Environmental Security, the Reduction of Regulatory Pressure on Domestic Subjects, has been developed to implement the Ukrainian Law on Free System in the Field of Economic Activity. The Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities establishes that such requirements should be laid down at the level of law for obtaining documents of a permissive nature; the need to obtain documents of a permissive nature and their species; the authorizing authority authorized to issue documents of a permissive nature; the payment or free issuance of documents of a permissive nature; the payment or free issuance of such documents; the recast, the issuance of duplicates, the cancellation of documents of a permissive nature; the issuance or issuance of written notice of refusal to issue documents of a permissive nature; the complete list of grounds for refusing such a change, the issuance of duplicates, the cancellation of a document of an arbitrary nature; the duration of the document or the need for a period of validity of such a document. In view of the above, the bill provides for the establishment of the above requirements in the field of the use of natural resources and the protection of the environment. It should also be noted that the bill is aimed at deregulation of entrepreneurial activities by reducing nine permissive documents. The adoption of the bill will ensure that laws are mutually compatible, allowing for the regulation of the treatment of arbitrary organs and economic operators. In view of the above, please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u82	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! For consideration by the Supreme Council, a bill on reforming and improving the permissive system in the field of environmental protection, rational and inexhaustible use of natural resources and environmental security, and the reduction of regulatory pressure on management subjects, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, is being introduced. [[Registration number 9139]] The draft law is designed to bring environmental legislation into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the bill did not require additional revenue from the budget and that if adopted it could be accepted as a basis and become effective under current legislation. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship supported the bill in its first reading. The European Integration Committee recognized the bill as not responding. The European Union, however, has proposed that the subject of the legislative initiative be corrected for further work. The main scientific and expert office has made a number of comments and proposes to adopt the bill as a result of the first reading. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use, the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading, and at the same time our committee has a number of observations about the bill. First of all, we need to take into account the mandate of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the field of environmental protection, water, forest resources, plant and animal life, air protection, etc. introduced by the Ukrainian Law on the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[of June 16, 2011]] And secondly, to rule out amendments to the Ukrainian Plant World Act, because they, in turn, require amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Violations in preparation for the second reading of the bill, which is contrary.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u84	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u85	This is contrary to article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy proposes to support this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u86	Please sign up. Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable colleagues, just one remark, because I agree with the idea of a profile committee to remove those standards that a colleague of Seminog called. And what he didn't say is, obviously, there wasn't enough time, is that the bill proposes to remove one of the positions that exists today in article 5 of the basic law. This is part three of article 17 of the Animal World Act of Ukraine. What is proposed to be deleted in this bill? Remove the situation as to the need to obtain permits for the special use of animal world objects by owners or users of land in which animal objects are located. What does that mean? And that means that those who have ownership of a given land area, if this situation is implemented that we are now being offered, become owners of the animal world, those animals that are in a state of natural will, which are a natural resource of state importance. Do you understand what this will lead to? That they're just going to be a hunting object, an object of destruction, because the owner is going to talk about that "this is my land, and my property is expanding accordingly, and everything I want to do with those animals in a state of natural will that are territorially in this area." So I strongly insist that this inhumane norm, obviously the hunters are lobbying, is not in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u88	Gennady Alexanderovich Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u89	The MP's Reforms for the Future. Gennady Bullying, Santa Claus. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Our first reading parliamentary group will, of course, uphold this law because this law corresponds to that reforming spirit that must be present today in the Supreme Council. And the issue of deregulation is a very serious issue. And we realize that this law actually solves a lot of useful issues, what it does to entrepreneurs. And we understand that this law defines the body and within what time period it should decide whether to issue or refuse these permits and sets a comprehensive list when it is possible to refuse or not to refuse. But I would also like to address a very important issue that concerns the issue of ecology. There's Deputy Minister Peter Dmitrovitch. Dear Peter Dmitrovitch, the point is that the Mikolaiian earth plant is once again dumping its sludge, and the 3 villages that are located at the shelter of the Mikolai Jewish earth plant are once again in a situation of environmental disaster. The point is that corruption, which unfortunately was allowed in the design of this shelter, corruption, which unfortunately exists in the executive authorities today, when we remember that there were whole criminal cases in Hungary about what happened in Hungary, and we had the Mikolai Agricultural Plant last year paid a fine and there were about twenty thousand dollars, just ridiculously. But the situation is not that, the situation is that there was a year and there was a way to fix the situation, but unfortunately it's not fixed and again the cold and air that rose brings it to people. Kids are breathing, it's a very dangerous situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u90	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u91	And I think if in this room, if there are real patriots in the government and people who care about people's problems, there's something that needs to be done. Because it's a Russian investor who came to our territory, and, in fact, he's acting like an aggressor, destroying Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u92	Thank you. Calchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u93	The deputy minister rightly asked what should be done in this law. This is a very simple technical thing, after the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Free Trade, it was necessary to bring environmental protection laws into line. Unfortunately, however, the project’s authors have gone a long way and there are many threats. The first threat is marginally permissible damages, we have approved them, and here the bill proposes not a completely clear form of development of new projects that are marginally acceptable. And there's such a threat that the new projects that will be, they'll be less responsible and the marginally acceptable damages can be eliminated, and the new ones are not fully understood by the method that they are introduced. Second, this is what has already been said about article 17, of the animal world, really, this cannot be allowed. In addition, the law now interferes with licenses, hunting cards, and so forth. It seems to me that the system that is in operation today has justified itself, and it is not necessary to do so. There are also technical errors, in my opinion, because it is unclear for the district and state administrations, what land is outside the population and what is in the area. So I would recommend to my faction colleagues not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u94	Yes, thank you. Please, one minute, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law, as in recent times, has passed on additional powers to the government over the course of the year, at the expense of the powers of the Supreme Council. Do I mean article 18 of Water?????????? a code that deals with the establishment of regulations for the marginally permissible reduction of pollutants and so on. The other thing that doesn't satisfy me is that, in fact, this bill will stimulate the burning of dry vegetation or its remains through the kind of change that is proposed in article 27, which prohibits the burning of dry vegetation or its residues, that is to say, the granting of permits for such activity is cancelled. But the Admincodex provides for the very responsibility of burning without these permits. So you can do anything. Here's these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u96	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Reforming and Improving the Permitting System in Environmental Protection, the rational and inexorable use of natural resources and environmental security, the reduction of regulatory pressure on operators. [[Registration number 9139]] Please vote. [[13:27:17]] For 251 Decision taken. We are considering a bill amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. [[on documents of a permissive nature]] [[Registration number 9375]] There's a brief proposal. Please vote. [[13:27:53]] For the 220. Offer supported. The word is given by the deputy minister of ecology and natural resources, Mormul Dmitry Dmitrovich. Prepare Danielne Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! According to the Ukrainian President's Economic Reform Programme, one of the ways in which it is reforming the business maximum promotion regime by reducing the State's economic involvement, reducing administrative barriers to its development, modernising the tax system, deepening Ukraine's international economic integration, including through deregulation of relations in the area of management. According to article 15 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, local self-government authorities have issued permits for the special use of natural resources of local importance. At the same time, it is not in line with the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Code on Nadra, the Water Code of Ukraine and other legislative acts, which makes it impossible to allow the special use of natural resources locally. In the light of the above, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has drafted a bill proposing a technical legal amendment in article 15 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act by reshaping the names of the permits for the special use of natural resources of local importance and introducing an obliging standard which states that permits for the special use of natural resources of local importance are issued and cancelled by local councils in cases provided for by law. In view of the above, please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u98	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, Vladimir Andrievich Danilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Article 15 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act proposes that the terminology of sub-paragraph "g" of the article listed in accordance with the Ukrainian Act "On Allowance in Economic Activities" should be added. The proposed changes relate to the authority of local councils in the field of environmental protection. At present, the only permit in the field of natural resources is the permit for the special use of natural resources. In fact, a valid version of the law contains the name of the permit for the special use of natural resources of local importance, which leads to legal uncertainty and ambiguity in the application of legislation when issuing the specified permits. It is suggested that this flaw in legislation be corrected. The adoption of the bill will help to regulate the arbitrary activities of local governments and to apply legislation in this area. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the bill has no budgetary impact. According to the findings of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, as well as the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the first reading of the project can be considered as a basis. Taking into account the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, identified as the main consideration of the bill, proposes to adopt the proposed bill as a basis. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u100	Thank you. Are we going to discuss it or are we going to make it clear? You don't? Besides Bully, no one insists? Then please, Gennady Bully and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u101	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The MP's Reform for the Future will support the initiative to reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature that are in fact not carried out by executive authorities and local self-government authorities. The bill introduces a rule that states that permits for the special use of natural resources are issued and cancelled by local councils in cases provided for by law. The proposed option meets the requirements of valid environmental legislation, which has been deprived of time limits, which will allow for the elimination of differences in the definition of documents of a permissive nature. But, Mr. Vice Minister of Ecology Peter Dmitrovitch, I insist again, the fact is that the situation is very dangerous at the shelter of the Mikolai Farm. Last year, that was the situation. And a year later, it's coming back up again. It seems to me that the Ministry of Ecology should intervene very seriously in this situation. Because as the guidance of the Mikolai Agricultural Plant and the Russian investor, the Russian aluminum giant, is acting, it is clear that in the past year they have simply provided funny help to these villages. And this year it's all over again. I feel like I have to do everything I can to make this situation impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u102	Well, I asked you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you think about what is proposed. I especially appeal to those who were members of the local council. And I'd like you to think about it. If previously stated in the law, it is clear that local councils issue and cancel permits for the separate use of natural resources of local importance. It will now be written that they issue and cancel permits for the special use of natural resources of local importance in cases provided for by law. Well, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, how do you understand that? Just in case for each local council, do we need to pass a law? Or how is this provided for in the law? Because it's going to be clear to everyone that it's taking additional powers into the local councils, in the regions you're talking about. So in the regions, they take all the powers and all the weights. They don't need them. It's going to take some kind of special law to write it. Think about it, please. And when we bring in two legislations, two legislative acts, one in line with the other, let's see which one should be brought into line. Or should we do it? Or maybe you need to change the law because you take these powers from local councils, and I'm not going to get my tongue back to call it deregulation. Or would a specialist in this field, Mrs. Xenius Leapina, help me to know where the deregulation is? She can't see the deregulation either. So there's no deregulation here, there's only taking powers from the local authorities that they still had a right to. And there's an impact on budgets, only on local budgets. So I think, especially after I've seen and studied, how is now using 1 billion dollars on, so to speak, defiance of toxic substances in this ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u104	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. [[on documents of a permissive nature]] [[Registration number 9375]] Please vote. [[13:36:30.]] For 256 Decision taken. We are considering a draft of the Law on Prices. No, we were supposed to consider the draft Law on Prices and Prices, the government bill, but the government has asked us to postpone consideration of this issue with the need to make some adjustments. [[Registration number 9361]] So now we're looking at the draft Law on Requirements for Objects and Materials. We're not taking it off the table, we're taking it into consideration. Well, if they insist on voting, I'll put it to a vote. Please support the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to postpone consideration of the draft Law on Prices and Price Creation, please support. [[Registration number 9361]] When we consider it, we will make a decision. [[13:37:41]] For 257 The bill was postponed. We are considering a draft Act on requirements for items and materials that contact food, and there is a proposal for a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 9450]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:38:12]] For 212 Offer supported. Please report to Health Minister Anishchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich. Prepare Bachelor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill was prepared by an inter-ministerial working group with the participation of food producers, international public organizations, to implement the National Action Plan. The bill takes into account the regulations of the European Union as well as the provisions and agreements of the WTO. In particular, the bill provides for general and specific requirements for the circulation of food products and materials. Establishing organizational principles to ensure a proper level of health protection and consumer interests Implementation of a register of substances that are allowed to be used in the production of objects and materials. Setting requirements for demarcation of items and materials. The adoption of the bill is part of the process of adapting Ukraine’s legislation to European Union legislation in the area of food safety, which will allow for a high level of protection of health and consumer interests. In particular, the implementation of the bill will allow: to reduce the burden on producers of food products and materials by introducing a declaration principle on such manufacturers; to ensure monitoring and proper control at all stages of production, processing and distribution of food products and materials that are in contact with food products; to guarantee a high level of protection of the population and food market operators from the dangers that may arise as a result of incomplete or inadequate information on the characteristics and characteristics of goods and materials; and to facilitate trade cooperation with EU countries. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u106	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Bachevi Tetjana Dmitrovna, head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! On January 11, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Health Care reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine 9450. The purpose of the bill is to harmonise the legislation of Ukraine with the legislation of the European Union. This is a very relevant question, since the quality of food directly depends on the quality of the package, on which material they are made, on whether this material, paints, and varnishes are allowed to contact food, or whether harmful substances will be removed from the package during the storage process. This is especially important for children’s food production. We cannot risk the health of our children in such a way as to leave the matter unregulated. After all, only 15-20 percent of babies are born healthy in Ukraine. Every third child has a physical or mental disability. The number of chronic allergic diseases in children is increasing each year. Moreover, bringing our legislation into line with international requirements is very important to accelerate Ukraine’s Euro-Integration process. The bill presented is fully in line with the European regulations. And this is very important because the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, in its conclusion, notes that this bill will not affect the budget. I would also like to point out that this bill will enter into force in just six months if it is adopted, and some of the rules of its individual articles will come into force in 2.5 years. So considering all these points.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u108	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u109	Thank you. So our committee is very much asking to support this bill, and this has been voted with all the people's deputies of all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u110	Please sign up for the performance. Please, Vladimir Kaplienko. Stand by, Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Peter Petrovich Hashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! While noting the need for the adoption of the bill, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group draws attention to such a disadvantage. This bill was drafted on the basis of Directive 89-109 EC of 21 December 1988 on materials that are in contact with food products, but not taking into account the specificities of Ukrainian legislation. As a result, there seems to be a lack of agreement between the project and valid legislation in the area of food safety and non-food production. In particular, the Law on the General Safety of Non-food Production refers to the production of any substance, preparation or other goods produced in the course of the manufacturing process. However, the project creates its own terminology that does not fit national legislation. So the definition of a key concept of a project, objects and materials that contact food, objects and materials, including active and intellectual objects and materials that may affect the safety and other characteristics of food products, paragraph 7, part one, article 1 of the project. They are incomprehensible and do not explain the meaning and meaning of the term. In support of the idea of harmonising national legislation with European Union legislation, the MP's Group on Reforms for the Future notes, along with the need for a more systematic approach to solving this problem, which should be taken into account in the second reading of the bill. The MP's Reform for the Future will vote in favour of the first reading of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u113	Ivan Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u114	Adam Ivanovich, please give Oleg Lašek a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u115	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u116	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We're talking about the quality of the package, this package, this is our famous Ukrainian cheese. Who probably doesn't know that Russia is throwing our cheeses out of the plazas in Russia right now, motivated by their inadequacy. In order to convince Russia’s leadership, I am sitting there with the chief public health doctor with the Ukrainian surname Anishchenko, and he tells us that our cheeses are innocuous and that, to make sure that they are quality, that is, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, I will eat this cheese. And as you can see, he didn't choke, he didn't poison himself, and nothing happened to me. And in order to make sure that Russian leadership is convinced of the quality of our production, I am sending this male cheese or pyrate, to the head of Sir Putin and Medvedev and Anishtenka, today I will send them Ukrainian cheese in diplomatic mail. And let them eat and not choke, and they know that Ukrainian cheeses, Ukrainian sausages, meat, cucumbers, and tomatoes are the best. And when we have peasants a liter of milk for two bracelets, 30 copies can't sell, and a kilogram of butter for the store is 100 dollars, and a liter of milk for 10 bucks. And our peasants can't sell a liter of milk for two bracelets because our government is not protecting Ukraine's interests. You government officials, when you go to Moscow to negotiate, you don't take vodka there -- you take Ukrainian sausage, Ukrainian cheese and Ukrainian potatoes. [[There's enough vodka in Moscow]] And let the Oneshchenko, Putin, and Medvedev, and all of them that are taken together, eat, and know that it is the strongest, the most delicious. And that's why I don't know what the package is, but the quality of Ukrainian cheese, and by the way, these are jobs for thousands of people: "pirate" cheese, "men's" cheese, "dubenski".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u117	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] There won't be anything to send if he gives it away.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, as I continue with the topic that Oleg Lazko raised, I want to say what is the difference, unfortunately, in assessing the situation in Russia and Ukraine. In Russia, sanitation and the Chief State Medic are elevated not only to the head of the inspection body but even to the political body. In Ukraine, unfortunately, this service is down to the level of simple controllers, and it's down by two, their functions are being removed. And so there is a situation that not only Ukrainian cheeses, but other products of this Onechenko Moscow will be controlled. Sadly, this is the weakness of our authority that has made a mistake in this important matter. With regard to this bill. I also want to give an example. In one of the Zacarpathic sanatoriums, the therapist says to his patients, "This water, Polana Kwasova, is very helpful only if you drink it out of glass bottles, not plastic bottles. [[I'm not going to call that]] Because we know that this plastic is made from imported innocuous raw materials, and this water will harm you. It's only those people who come to the reception, and all of Ukraine consumes this seemingly healing carpal water, which is not really what it's supposed to be. The bill, although to some extent improving this situation, certainly needs to be maintained, regardless of who is the faction. But I would like to pay attention, Sir Adam Ivanovich, to the conclusion of the scientific department. See what this conclusion is, it's an absurd conclusion. They don't understand what the implementation of European legislation is to Ukrainian and it's not a scientific and expert government, it's a pseudo-scientific expert office, judging by the conclusion that the heads of this department have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u119	Question completed. I'm voting on a proposal: to adopt a draft Act on requirements for food products and materials. [[Registration number 9450]] [[13:50:52]] For 277 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. [[on the transport of applicants]] [[Registration number 9126]] There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:51:28]] For 222 Offer supported. Report to the Head of the State Security Inspectorate on ground transportation, Pronchenko Evgen Anatoliyovich, please. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u120	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! As part of the administrative reform that is currently taking place in the state, the government is taking steps to significantly deregulation of economic activity and facilitate business management, reduce bureaucratic and control procedures for enterprises by public authorities. The bill you are invited to consider is intended to address the issues mentioned. In accordance with article 46 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, passenger carriers to compete for the carriage of passengers on the bus route of general use are given to competing committees of different levels of the entire range of documents. The list of such documents includes, inter alia, evidence of the suitability of the applicant's technical condition to the conditions of transport issued by the relevant DAI departments, as well as the conclusion of the DAI that the applicant complies with the requirements of the legal and regulatory acts in the field of road safety. The bill proposes to exclude the selected documents from the list, which must be submitted to the carrier for participation in the competition. Practically, the application of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act shows that the lack of information in the above documents and issued by the DAI departments does not have a practical impact on security and quality of transport, as well as the objectivity of determining the winner of the competition. In addition, this information is previously checked by government authorities in the licensing of motorists. In fact, the information provided in these documents is duplicated in other documents that the carrier provides for participation in the competition. The law also proposes to oblige executive authorities and local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u122	Thank you. Before the date of the competition inform the respective DAI units of the transporters-prender. Thus, carriers are relieved of the need to prepare and file unnecessary documents. The bill was a public discussion, fully supported by motorists as well as by an appropriate committee of the Supreme Council. In view of the well-known, distinguished national MPs, I would like to support the bill before you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u123	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Transport and Communications Have a seat, please. Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications considered a bill, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 46 of the Ukrainian Law on Road Transport, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 91126]] According to the Explanatory Note, the purpose of the bill is to improve legislation in the field of road transport, to simplify business, to reduce arbitrary procedures, to implement government policies aimed at facilitating entrepreneurial activities. It is proposed to exclude from the list of documents required to participate in the competition the assistance and conclusions of the State Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the conformity of the technical condition of buses – applicants to the conditions of transport and the requirements of regulatory acts in the field of road safety. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine notes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship supports the bill and proposes that it be submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration and accepted as a basis. The proposal is also made by the Committee on European Integration. Taking into account the above and the outcome of the discussion at the meeting on 30 November 2011, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft bill, a draft Ukrainian law to be adopted as a basis. Please consider, support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u125	Thank you. Please sign up. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. Not too late. Zarubinsky Oleg, please. Prepare Pachetsuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u126	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, we often have a normal legislative initiative, but there is always nothing missing. This initiative is not fully viewed by the developers. I'll give you two examples in this bill. Well, the right bill, no questions asked. But even there is something to be added, something to be avoided. This is where the contestant is supposed to pay, the fee for participating in this competition. It's a dot. What's the pay? Who sets the size? How is this size determined? Who is the definition of this payment? Well, it's supposed to be in the bill, otherwise it'll all be up in the air. These are simple things. The second moment, he might be that kind of, I don't know, stylistic character. The point is that in nine days, the local authorities that organize this competition should report, provide information, both the DAI, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Infrastructure, so to speak, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and so on. I have a simple question: Why? Why, they're not winners of the competition yet? In nine days, this information should be provided. If you know why, you should have mentioned it in the Explanatory Note. We need to take the legislative initiative more seriously. Thank you. Although she's normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u127	Packet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I would like to say immediately to Mr. Zarubinski that, according to Decree 1081, the very value to be paid for the contest is clearly stated. This bill envisions a reduction in paperwork and a reduction in corruption, because every piece of information is worth the cost and that's what our passenger pays for. So I propose to support this bill and to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u129	Yes, please, one minute, Chaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u130	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you know, the law is, in our view, the representatives of the MP group Reforms for the Future are contradictory and, in principle, more eloquent than the actual help of those carriers that are in line today to get routes in cities large and small. Well, of course, the point is that yes, some costs are actually going to be reduced and corruption in the DAI will be reduced because of not getting any kind of help. But there is a very different question: What happens to the quality of the carriers, their technical status, and their actual control over the safety of road traffic. Consider, for example, the year 2000, when the uncontrolled area of licensing for transportation in urban transport resulted in many abuses and accidents. Will it not be so today? And the second question. How will the executive authority respond if this provision is not fulfilled, and within nine days, the information will be transmitted to the DAI? Questions. We will support it in the first reading, but the second one needs to be redrafted. At least.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u131	Carmazine, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the first bills to really reduce corruption. But I fully agree with Mr. Zarubinski, where he says what it's worth to be obliged to do when reducing corruption, and then to oblige the executive authorities to give a mandate nine days before the date of the information competition for the State Inspectorate's unit on transporters. It's an absolute frost. Therefore, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry, I ask you to exclude this as absolutely unnecessary if we want to engage in deregulation. And so it happened that the previous bill was adopted and even the bitter words of the people I deeply respect said to the Chief Executive. I would like to say to justice that we have a law on the general safety of non-food products. That's where we have to predict everything. That's the first one. And the second. I personally don't understand what intellectual objects or intellectual materials are.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u133	Yuri Anatolyevich, during your lunch break, you will find out what this is. Yes, Shevchuk Sergei, please one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u134	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, it seems that the bill is dictated by certain requirements of individual law enforcement agencies. And it's surprising. about the contest and about the carriers. Well, we haven't heard this innovation in a while. But the main thing is this. As a result of this innovation, will the safety of passenger transport be improved? There's a lot of doubt. As a result of this innovation, will the environmental standards for transporting Ukraine, which has long been set aside from the environmental standards of European states, improve? Neither did I. Will other conditions improve? Neither did I. So it's a trickery, it's a new piece of legislation in a contract that's known to the interests of certain people and nothing else. I think we should think carefully before voting for this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u135	Question completed. On second thought, I propose to support the draft Act amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act. [[Registration number 9126]] Please vote. [[14:03:30]] For 257 Decision taken. And another bill is the draft Law on the Principles of State Regional Policy. [[Registration number 6462]] To settle in 15 minutes, I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[14:04:06]] For 211 Offer supported. Reports Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. Get ready for Maibeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u136	Ukrainian Sobor Platform, Anatoly Matvienko. Dear colleagues! I heard the President's call from this rostrum today, as you did in the hall, and I offered to return to constructive work. I have a question for you. What's the point? And I want to use this time as an example of the bill that I'm going to present. To find the answer, does it make sense to work constructively today? The bill was prepared in May 2010. In response to the President's call for an effective regional policy. I truly believed that the President wanted this. An appropriate group of experts prepared such a bill. There were two scientific and practical conferences, two round tables. The Small Towns Association supported the bill. International and Ukrainian experts have confirmed that this is important. He wrote a letter to the President wishing to sit down and work on the bill together. I turned to the government. It's been two years. Nobody's moved a finger. What is more, they have taken a separate norm, the same as the bill provides for a financial mechanism. It's a state regional fund. They passed a special law. And it is not clear why he has not been in the order of the day to this day. It turns out there's a desire to make a contribution. Because if it is the opposition, no one wants to accept it. I'm talking to the majority. Friends, if you are for constructive work, this is how you view projects, and more about opposition offers and constructively something to offer is more than that. And this is a disgrace to our Parliament. Now for a short period of two words. The bill is really proposing a new policy. The bill proposes a mechanism of formation, proposes which institutions. The bill proposes a financial basis. I realize that in these two years much has changed. And I think it's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u137	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u138	I think this bill needs further work. So I agree, if it's not accepted in the first reading, really, to vote it out for a second first reading, let's give it to the committee and let's do it eventually, instead of footballing real and interesting proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u139	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Sergey Maybeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee considered the draft Act on the Principles of State Regional Policy by the People's Deputies of Matvienko, Martinenko, Trajuk and Baranov. [[Registration number 6462]] The bill defines the basic legal, organizational, economic, social, humanitarian and environmental principles of State regional policy. At the same time, there are a number of comments. For example, the legislative mandate of the National Council for State Regional Policy and the Council for the Development of the Regions for the preparation of a State strategy for regional development is contrary to the provisions of the State Strategic Planning Bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers in early November. [[Registration number 9407]] The legal implications of the macro-region are unclear. Since the macro-region does not have its own system of executive and local authorities. This term is no longer used in the project. There are no mechanisms to harmonize the interests of regional policy actors. This concerns both consultations of the central executive bodies with local authorities, local governments and the harmonization of public, regional and local interests in the formulation of a State strategy for regional development. Compliance with private business interests with the project is not envisaged at all. The project uses the term “regional human development index”. However, what it is and how it is determined from the content of the project is unclear. Nor is the content of the terms “sectoral policy”, “old industrial areas”, “business associations of regions”, and so on. The bill contains a number of conflicting rules, which led the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office to recommend that the bill be rejected. However, the Committee proposes that the draft Act on the Principles of State Regional Policy be sent to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Urbanization, Housing and Regional Policy for the Re-Earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u141	Thank you. Sign up. Please, Karpuk Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u142	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". The bill, despite the observation of scientific expertise, has quite a positive effect. First, the issue of the principles of regional policy is being addressed in a complex way. Today, they are scattered according to a number of laws that do not in a certain way harmonize with each other. So the denial of what's already settled in other laws is still not fully understood. Now we see the centralization of power and the role of the regions is actually going to be the distribution of those debris that are being removed from the State Budget. Regional policy funding is being made in annual terms as a percentage decreases every year. In fact, they have now returned to times like those of Kuchma when the principle of manual regulation is applied, whether a local manager, governor, or mayor likes it. And usually this funding goes to those areas that support the political power that goes to the majority. We've seen this in the adoption of the State Budget, where the entire districts of a number of deputies are funded, everything is clearly following, including the leaders of the Supreme Council. So Anatoly Sergiyovich’s arguments need to be heard. And we agree with the committee's decision that this law needs to be further developed, but that it needs to be further developed in the Committee on Local Self-Government and Public Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u143	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u144	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished Anatoly Sergiyovich, colleagues! Interesting bill, systemic, complex. And finally, it offers a new philosophy of how to solve the issues that are now painful and that everyone is talking about. Well, in particular, we can agree that the implementation of the ideas set out in the bill actually strengthens the development of the regions, the fact that -- the fact that they increase the availability of budgets at all levels, we can also agree, they increase the financial support for regional development -- it is. Well, on the other hand, maybe a certain flaw, well, it's probably not a fault, it's a derivative of the fact that the bill contains a lot of different novelties that relate to different areas of legislation, the legislative provision of the problem, is, in my opinion, enough either flaws or inaccuracies, starting with even the name of the project. It refers to the principles of national regional policy, the principles. If you take the synonym of "principles" as "bases", then you have to think of it as a legislative act that sets the key principles of legal regulation in a certain area. At the same time, much of the bill's provisions are abnormal, I think the subject of the legislative initiative agrees, it's a lot of unorthodox not only language, but articles as well. So I think there's a lot of positives in this bill, and I really don't want us to reject it, maybe agree with the initiative of the author himself. And since there is a committee of profiles, a committee of heads, it should take over, it is normal under the Rules, to finalize this bill, so that the key points, the philosophy of the bill is not rejected, so that it actually takes effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u145	Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u146	I signed up "against" just to take the word, because there's a lot of pros. I think this bill deserves attention. The author is the former head of the profile committee. And I ask, Adam Ivanovich, to convey the word to the deputy Hanustak of the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u147	Please, you're a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u148	Gentlemen, this is a bill that deals with a whole series of issues that you and we both had on slogans, that is, the development of regions like these. And here we're proposing, really, a linear system of plans and strategies that are state strategies and regional strategies. And regional strategies go with an understanding of the mission of each region. As a result of this mission, a plan of action is being drawn up and then projects are being identified on the competitive basis, and I ask you to pay attention: projects, not programs. And that's exactly what these projects are about funding from that fund that we just approved. Thank God they accepted my amendments to the procedure. And without this law, this fund is going through because there's no purpose, there's no object to investing that money. They have to go to projects that go on the mission of this region of the approved strategy. Why does the agency come into existence? Because there's got to be an institution that provides three components -- power, business and the public. And it's within the framework of a public private partnership, an institution that provides this connection. It's an intellectual thing, so there has to be a separate institution that all of these three will trust. Moreover, the EU cannot provide us with structural funds in the region if this system does not work. Because he doesn't know who to give, what to give. There must be these things. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m0.u149	The discussion is over, for Yuri Anatoliyevich says we are in 15 minutes. So, I'm sorry, we can't take much longer. I put to the vote the proposal and the committee and the author: to re-read. Please vote. To read again. [[14:16:06]] For 218. The factions, please. Region Party – 172, "BUT – Fatherland" – 9, "Our Ukraine" – 14. Who's in charge of coming back? [[14:16:39]] For 263 We're back. I am voting on the proposal to re-read the draft Law on Principles of State Regional Policy. [[Registration number 6462]] Please vote. [[14:17:07]] For 260 Decision taken. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. In 16 hours, please take a break.
