ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:35]] It was registered in the session hall with cards of 419 Ukrainian national deputies. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of our colleague of the Final Vladimir, who has the Jubilee. Please welcome a colleague and wish him good health and success in life. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on June 19th. 56 questions on the agenda have been considered, 3 laws and one regulation have been adopted, 6 bills adopted on the basis, 2 bills have been sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, 5 bills and one draft decree have been returned to the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, 10 bills and one draft decision have been turned back to the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, 10 bills and 1 draft decree have been rejected. Honorable national MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are on Wednesday 30 minutes spent speaking to national MPs with statements, reports, appeals, and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please state the names of the national MPs. Yuri Serbin faction "BUT" - "Fatherland." Yuri Serbin is handing Sergey Shevchuk over, please, to the Faction "BUT" - "The Fatherland." Next is Michael Kossov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the venerable Ukrainian community! First of all, I would like to welcome all of you with a holiday -- a holiday that our athletes, ours, and not the imported coaches of the collective, citizens who have demonstrated to the whole world the best qualities of a national character: our sincerity, hospitality, kindness and tolerance. This festival will be with us for a long time. But this holiday could be more complete if there were no diplomatic isolation of Ukrainian power. Unfortunately, there was no meeting between Ukrainian authorities and European politicians during the Euro - 2012 period. They ignored the championship. President Janukovic was not only able to hold any formal negotiations, but even photograph them during the championship. We are all outraged by the unjust judge in Donetsk, who decided on the fate of the football game. But everyone remembers the unfair judiciary of the Koreans and the wolves, the unfair judiciary of other courts that ruled the fate of the opposition leaders. Football referees may expect disqualification. Regrettably, the disqualification of the highest authorities in Ukraine in the great political game has already taken place. The reason is known to everyone — political prisoners and selective justice. Not to the President’s Administration, but to the colony European politicians wanted to join. 27 of them have already met Julia Timoshenko. The number of people who want to hear the truth from the mouth of political prisoners is higher. The Penitentiary Management issued a statement yesterday that the Medical Commission, I quote, "I recommended the Court to create appropriate and special comfortable conditions for Timoshenko to stay in court during the trial of another criminal case." What does that mean? First, despite Julia Timoshenko's illness, she could be forced to leave the hospital room again. And if she's denied it for medical reasons, transport the force. Secondly, medical officials, of whom 70 times have been plastered by so-called medical commissions, are on the other hand acting as prosecutors, forgetting the doctor's oath and medical ethics. And thirdly, comfortable conditions, in the understanding of the prisoners, mean -- the head covering, the beating, the twisting of hands under constant video surveillance. This attitude is particularly cynical, given that German doctors, who according to the MOH, are now fully responsible for Julia’s health, are not present in Ukraine. In the absence of a medical doctor, no harsh physical measures should be taken to reverse the entire treatment process. And it will be international experts who will be responsible. What assessment will European politicians give? Dear colleagues! I don't mean to say that power is nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u4	Nothing won from Euro-2012. She won a cup of Swedish beer, which was questioned in the government's premises. That's the real price.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u5	Thank you. Mikhail Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Next up is Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u6	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues! Dear TV setters! He went out to this rostrum to show you this book called "The Faces of the Unsurpassed Ukrainian Spirit." And the subtitle of this book says, "The drama of Ukraine with Julia Timoshenko in the epicenter of events." And also, "The first international winner of the Eugen Kunzevich Award was Julia Timoshenko." And here, on 1295 pages, there are documents that are dedicated to the political dispute over the national leader of Ukraine. We have to say, first of all, who is Eugene Concevich. Eugene Koncevitch is a famous Ukrainian writer who lived in Žitomir. He had been in an accident since he was a young man and was confined to a bed. But he became an outstanding, incorruptible patriot of Ukraine and a truly high Ukrainian unaccelerated man. And this year, on June 5, the birthday of Eugene Concevitch, and he left for a better world the day before that date, he created an international award for the name of this knight of the unspeeded Ukrainian spirit. The international commission of this prize included five states in which Eugene Concevich’s creativity is the most common. This is, of course, Ukraine, this is Russia, this is the United States of America, this is Canada and this is Norway. This includes many of our colleagues, former Ukrainian deputies, such as Sergey Zizko, Jacob Zaiko. I especially want to thank Jacob Jacob from our faction for publishing this book. Mikola Istratenko, Vladimir Kolinec, Alexander Kostuk, Olena Kondakova Vitali Melniczuk is also our colleague. Eugene Pashkovski is the winner of the Shevchenkov Prize. Gregory Zimbaluk is an outstanding writer who lives in Žitomir. Another animal, the winner of the Shevchenkov Prize, Valérie Shevchuk. Mikhailo Schuljak. Thank you so much, dear colleagues, for this edition and for the first international award to the brave, unbreakable woman, Yulia Timoshenko. And to you, dear fellows, I would like to make such an offer. We have to do everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u7	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u8	We have to do everything we can to make this book a library.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Thank you. Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Marina Perestenko will be next. Suchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u10	Yes, Shustik Oleni. Shustik!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u11	Olena Shustik, please, the BUT faction is Fatherland. Then Marina Perestenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u12	Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, respected colleagues, respected compatriots, June 25, Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv will deal with the second fully falsified and absurd criminal case against Yulia Timoshenko regarding the company EESU. The judge demands the personal presence of Julius Volodymyrna in the courtroom. The Ministry of Health, consider, recommends creating particularly comfortable conditions for Timoshenko to stay in the courtroom. At the same time, German experts directly responsible for the treatment of Julia Timoshenko are concerned about her condition. Our judges and physicians apparently consider the transport of a person with a sick back, his being in court in good practice. At the very least, it is a humiliation of honor and dignity, not to mention damage to one’s health. The authorities are in a hurry to condemn Julia Volodymyrna for the second time, while she is in any way trying to delay the examination of the gas case, pressing the court and the investigation on an unprecedented basis. The President's statements are additional to this confirmation. He unrepentantly charged Julia Timoshenko with various criminal offences, including the murder of Eugene Szczerbán. But what about the presumption of innocence, Mr. President? The principle is so clearly enshrined in the Constitution, of which you are today. On the other hand, the president confirmed the political component of the opposition’s leader’s imprisonment and that he was personally the contracting party for the criminal persecution of Yulia Timoshenko. The attorney general's first deputy went even further, incriminating Yulia Timoshenko from a dozen cases, calling the disease her farce, the leading German specialists, the non-professionals. A representative of the Attorney General's Office insists on conducting forensic expertise, involving professional experts, in order to continue investigating outstanding new forged cases against Yulia Timoshenko. The political isolation of Julia Timoshenko in the walls of the Kachanov Colony is solely the will of the President by the hands of the prosecution and the court. All the efforts of today's government, the entire state machine, are only to leave Julia Timoshenko behind at any cost, because she is the only real competitor and the biggest threat to the ruling regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u13	Catherine Samuel, please, the Communist faction. Next up is Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, I would like to express my concern about the destructive actions of all the organizations that are being created, including the Ukrainian National Deputies. Addressing the officers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Bureau, the Anti-Corruption Committee with the President of Ukraine. It's fear that the people of the Goloprist region of the Hersonian region are being attacked by a so-called Legion law firm. Attacks on successful farmers, businessmen are increasing. So Consciousness in the village of Nova Zborovka, in the region of Hersonian region, is involved in the cultivation of berries that are very early and is part of the government program, and it puts them on the market of all of our nation. She suffered a raid by so - called legioners. Seven cars drove by, people in masks began to cast out people, insulting their dignity, and demeaning them. This is happening, in my opinion, according to the head of the Halogen RDA. They're taking the land, the crops, the real estate, these legionaire robbers, and in the village of Iron Port, in the village of Shevchenka Chaplin district, another group. Do the national electorates who have given birth and head such criminal systems add authority to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the corresponding political party? People work hard in their cities, take care of how they survive, ask questions of national importance in New Zberów, Radinsk, Copenhagen. Why doesn't the EP work, because in the South, they've all been buying up before -- the Russians, the Belarusians, to make it possible for our people to survive? Why does the EP not work today? Who gives permission to import vegetables and fruits, cafes from Turkey, Spain, when our produce is good. Who by such actions destroys the hope of survival? Because our garden is rotting, and people, by the way, are examples of suicide, because they can't pay off the loan, they can't just survive. Unfortunately, the state does not act as a citizen's protection, and there is some silence when the courts, the prosecutor's office, tax simply, simply, serve the interests of criminal persons. People have no hope but for the state, no one else. I'm asking you to put order in your organs. Protect the people! Otherwise, people are easy for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Microphone. Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u16	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gordijenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u17	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Please. The next one will be the Extreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u18	Dear Chairman, colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Company of Ukraine, the Communist MPs of the Zolitani District Council of the Cherkas region, received the following message. "We, the residents of the Zgari district, the village of Wavelo Soročin, Chapaevka, members of the garden and garden cooperatives, ask you to find all the ways to help us get out of the trouble we've been in. Back in the last century, pollution of surface waters and the surrounding environment began as a result of the halting of the cleanups of the city of Złotości, which led to an extraordinary state - level situation in 2002. Since then, two decades have passed, and the unpolluted streams have streamed directly through the rivers: Dry Zhar and Goldilocks, as open sewers, in the Kremenchuck Sea. On the way to the sewers of the dirt are: the Huttir Zhar, the villages of Hvilovo-Soročin, Chapajevka and 10 other garden-garden cooperatives, a number of villages in the Blackbai district. All of this has resulted in significant pollution of groundwater, environmental disaster, and the inability to live properly in the surrounding areas. This question has been raised for many years at meetings of the people of the village of Hvilovo-Soročin. "We are in pain to hear explanations and promises regarding the restoration of cleaning facilities that are not happening until now. The quality of drinking water continues to deteriorate, and the sanitary and epidemiological situation becomes more difficult. The question is, How can we continue to live in the territory? As we examine the situation, we feel that neither the owners nor the local authorities have fully understood the severity of the problem nor are they seeking immediate solutions to it. As a result, we ask you to help us get out of this trouble, and not only ours, but also the entire coast of the Kremenchuk watershed, the Dnipro river. Find all the ways to solve this problem." As a result, people demand effective action from the government, from the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, the State Environmental Inspectorate, the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service, the Czerka Regional Public Administration and the city government of Zoldanosz. They ask to study immediately the situation in the region as a result of the years-long fall of unclean sewage from the city of Zełotonosza, to identify the causes of pollution of the environment, to produce project-based documentation for the repair or construction of clean-up facilities, and to ensure that these works are properly financed from all possible sources of financing – and to save Dnipro and their villages.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u20	from an environmental disaster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u21	Valerius Krynyus, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Baldirev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u22	Please give the floor to your colleague Sas Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u23	Sergei Sas, please. Then Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u24	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, Euro-2012 is on fire. Ukraine meets participants, guests of the Championship, with bread and salt. We thank our team, our boys, they did everything they could. We believe in their future victories. A great deal of preparatory work has been done. The left-hand share of spending went into the budget, on the shoulders of every Ukrainian, it's tens of billions of dollars, it's not built schools, kindergartens, hospitals, including a medical diagnostic complex at the Ohmatdit Children's Hospital, it's not a rehabilitated road that in most regions resembles a tankdrome, it's a meager salary for teachers, medics, civil servants, military, law enforcement, it's an unpaid benefit for black people, Afghans, disabled people and much more. But this isn't about that right now, it's about that later. Ukraine waited, counted days before the beginning of the Euro, there was a patriotic uplift in society, millions of cowards and those who had not previously been interested in football wanted to win our team, waited for every broadcast to feel the atmosphere that prevails in the stadiums and hurt Ukraine. However, this was not what was supposed to happen. Millions of Ukrainians have not been able to see on television the match with the participation of our collective, other Euro participants, the inhabitants of cities and villages of Kirovogradščina, Winniczyn, Kyivščina, Žitomyrščina, Cherkaščina, Hmělničina, many other regions, virtually half of Ukraine. Yesterday, colleagues from the Supreme Council's rostrum talked about this, the authorities' reactions -- none. The government granted the right to broadcast Euro to its TRC channel "Ukraine", which covers only part of the territory of Ukraine. Our cowards are forced to look for Euros on Germany and Moldova, other countries. Remember, when there were the champions of the previous Euro and the football world, we could see all the games on the public canals at will. How, then, should the so - called authorities not love their own people in order to deprive them of their right to see the Euro at their expense in Ukraine? Isn't that a shame? For the powerful, the VIP stands, for the individual construction works, billions of profits, and for millions of Ukrainians, nothing. We demand to stop fighting and urgently ensure that Euro matches can be watched on television throughout Ukraine. Vlado, come on! Remember, people can choose power. The government can't change people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u25	Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, faction of the Party of Regions, will be next by Vladimir Moysik. Right? Instead of Jaroslav Kendzior. Ah, Jaroslav Kenzier will be speaking. Excuse me! Please, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u26	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! In the face of the instability of the world’s European economic financial markets, competition for resources and space of life is increasing. And Ukraine is an object, including information and political pressure. I am confident that these issues should be the basis for consolidating the efforts of all the pragmatic responsible forces in Ukraine. Consider the flow of disinformation directed at Ukraine before the Euro - 2012 era. At this time, virtually all European media, the sharp Ukrainians determine how beautiful Ukraine is, how sincere, honest, hospitable, and tolerant the Ukrainian people are. And this is our main victory for the Euro-2012. And at the same time, including in this room some quasi-patriots, coming out of internal political competition, fighting for the future place on the party list, are dumping dirt on their state. And that's unacceptable. Similarly, the truth and objective situation surrounding the financial, monetary and exchange-rate system of the country of Ukraine, which is governed, is a stable one. And this is confirmed by specific statistics that correct some of the external projections. On this day, the total government debt of Ukraine is $60.9 billion. This is 36 percent of gross domestic product. As a reminder, honourable national MPs, the Budget Code considers 60 percent of gross domestic product to be dangerous. By the end of this year, we predict that the amount of government debt will be reduced to at least 34 percent. The National Bank’s gold reserves have a three-month-long net import strength reserve. And that's our legislation. Of course, we see the risks that are around Ukraine and within Ukraine, including the export dependence of our economy -- about 50 percent of exporters form. Very serious problems, the failure to resolve the issue of gas contracts that are ruining our national economy. And that's a question of state-wide, national significance. Therefore, when it comes to the competitiveness of the state, its positive image in the world, its trust in the state, the stability of the financial and economic system as a precondition for development, all should be united around the solution of these issues. What do you call a faction of the Party of Regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u27	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u28	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Dear Head, dear colleagues! This room has already mentioned that 1912 is the year of a terrible bloody Jubilee, which is 75 years of the beginning of the great terror. Each year, marking this sad date of the beginning of the destruction of Ukrainian intelligence, from Ukraine to Kareliya, in Sandarm, a large group of Ukrainian intelligence, representatives of Ukraine, were assigned to Solovka, who honored the memory and the memorial sign of the Christ at the Sandarm ceremony and honored those who were innocently destroyed by the Communist regime at that time. This year, unfortunately, neither the Ministry of Culture nor the Institute of National Memory has given up wanting to allocate those scarce funds, these are several tens of thousands of dollars to be allocated to another delegation in Sandarmokh. And we understand that in this very Jubilee, terrible year in Sandarmokh, Solovka will gather representatives of virtually all former Allied republics who come and are headed by officials who represent the power of this state. Unfortunately, we do not have or intend to send an official delegation of Ukrainians, or even the civil urge of those who remember these tragedies of our distant history, to get the support of today’s authorities to go there. I am officially addressing the Minister of Culture, first of all Prime Minister Azarov, the Minister of Culture, so that this issue can be resolved without delay, and our delegation was present at all those memorial events in Sandarmokh, Sandarmokh and Solovka. You know, some kind of frontal attack goes to all the Ukrainians. In Sandarmokh, Les Kurbas was buried. And it was at the 125th anniversary of the birth of Kurbass and the 75th anniversary of the Great Terror in Kiev that there was an attack on the National Centre for Theatre Art called Les Courbas. All of this, when you pile it up, it gets creepy, what kind of occupation power is that today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u29	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u30	As long as all of these flow through the crown, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u31	Thank you. Sergey Greenewecko gives the right to speak to Catherine Vaszczuk. Stretovich will be next. Depends on how long it takes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u32	Katerina Vaschuk, Volin. At the request of my constituents, I would like to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Agrarian Policy with the proposal of the Animal Support Programme in Ukraine to make it permanent for at least the next ten years, adapting it to the characteristics of regions or zone differences. For example, the Western Carpathian region with relatively small commercial farms, farms, and private agriculture can be an example of a combination of the possibilities of these three forms of farming. She would suggest that the Cabinet of Ministers study and support the experience of Wolina’s work with family farms and farmers, where the board of directors, the district council, adopt an animal development program in the area and where the district budget supports the cost of tribal work, annoys owners who support three or more cows, and creates family farms for five or six or more cows. Today, in Volina more than two, nearly three thousand family farms. The recently launched delivery to these dairy farms has been handed over for several hundred years. What does that mean? This is family work, children are brought up in work as hosts, not consumers or adjectives, but the district budget is not enough. And so I would like the Cabinet of Ministers to support this movement, put animal welfare support and payment into the budget the following year on the head of a large cattle. This has been met well by people, but they are concerned and afraid that this program will not be just for the elections and will not end. In addition, if there are several family farms in the village, a farm that maintains cows would be useful to organize a refrigeration plant. That would increase the price for farmers for milk by 20 to 30 percent. And take advantage of the experience of foreign countries in quotaing agricultural production and organizing it for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u33	Yes, please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u34	The peasant knew he could plan his own economy. This will really help the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u35	Thank you. Strutovich, one minute. Please. Vladimir Stretović, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! Deputies! I'm going back to the subject that my colleagues in this room were talking about. It's about the flaws in the Euro-2012 broadcast. It happened that the First National, who had the exclusive right to broadcast all the matches, all 31, sold part of his rights to the Ukrainian commercial channel. But let me sell those games that don't come from the Ukrainian collective, but it turns out that there's a commercial interest here, because they're looking, the number army of the U.K. cowards, and they can't look at the remotest places in the countryside, the countryside, they sound from this rostrum. It has been said that in the mountainous areas no signal can be reached, as a result, the budget does not receive a significant amount of money, although the advertising could be led by the First National. I'm coming out of this rostrum because two years from now, we have the world championship in Rio de Janeiro. And I hope that our assembly will go through the sampling tournament and repeat the same story that the state channel will not broadcast all the games. Let me ask the Prime Minister, the head of the National Radio Company, and ask him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches of the national MPs have been completed. For suggestions that need a proper response, I ask the distinguished national MPs, more specifically the secretariat, to prepare appropriate letters, appeals, and assignments. And as for your esteemed colleagues, Euro-2012, one sentence. Here we greeted our congregation for a successful performance, you know, we lived to see our defeats turned into victories. That's a lot. Instead of talking about what's really going on and making the right decisions, including if there were players who are Ukrainian citizens at least 90 percent in the premier league, then there would be order. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider ratification. At the same time, from the faction "BUT"- "Paternity" to "Paternity" requires that a proposal be put to the vote for the first time after ratification to consider the issue of the creation of the TSC. Let's do it this way. Since the Conciliation Council has not supported it, we will first consider the ratification, and then, if that is the requirement, I will put it to the vote in the session room. Is there no objection? None. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the simplified procedure for the movement of the Slavutic-Crnobilska AES road area of the Republic of Belarus, workers, means of transport and cargo of the Chernobyl AES and enterprises operating in the alien zone, as well as foreign specialists involved in the implementation of international projects related to the closure of the Chernobyl AES and the Protocol thereto, is under consideration. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please be supportive. [[10:37:57]] For-198 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Demchenko Ruslan, the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the simplified procedure for the movement of the Slavutic-Cranobil nuclear power plant by the region of Belarus, workers, vehicles and cargo of the Chernobyl AES and enterprises operating in the alien zone, as well as foreign specialists involved in the implementation of international projects on the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power station and the Protocol thereto signed on 12 January 2009 in Montenegro, was designed with the aim of completing internal procedures for the acquisition of these instruments. The agreement, in particular, provides for the introduction of a simplified transit procedure for the Chernobyl nuclear power station’s service staff and related cargoes through the area of the road that passes through Belarus. Ratification of the agreement will facilitate the establishment and operation of the security zone around the Chernobyl nuclear power station and the operational completion of tasks related to its closure. Such a step will also have a positive impact on the international image of our nation, giving further impetus to the further development of the good-neighbourly Ukrainian-Belarus relations. On its part, Belarus ratified the agreement on May 26, 2010. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u39	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Taras Cranvill, please make a decision by the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! Our committee considered the issue and unanimously supported the ratification of the document, recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine do so. The same is true of support from the Chief Science and Technology Administration. From the Chernobyl and Emergency Committee and the Committee on Budgets notes that this will not affect the state budget of Ukraine. In this case, this is the question that Ukraine needs. We take on some additional liabilities, particularly equipment, and equipment to equip the Belarusian side of the gap so that it can work in the mode that we need. But this takes away a number of problems that are constantly hanging from our services, our structures, our citizens, who are obliged to move from Slavotica city to Chernobyl’s nuclear power station because of the service needs. Today, part of Belarus’s good will removes some of these problems. But we have to understand that at any time they can ask the question of full, full care of all the cargo that is being transported, of full verification of both the passport and the material things that are being carried by passengers going in that direction. And that's going to create huge problems. In this case, this agreement actually allows to simplify the absolute intersection of simple passes that harmonize between the competent authorities of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus and to ensure the unbreakable link between Slavutic and the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. This is somewhat like a situation that exists between two parts of Croatia, separated by a small corridor in Bosnia. There is also a completely simplified system of crossing this foreign territory for all citizens of these countries and other citizens who have certain transit needs. In this case, our committee asks them to support this ratification so that the treaty enters into force. This is real for Ukraine, to ensure uninterrupted work at the Chernobyl AES.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u41	Dear National Deputies! Please sign up for this bill. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u42	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! Since the ratification of this agreement will contribute to the rapid completion of tasks related to the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear station and to ensuring safety, environmental security at the station. And in order for our manufacturers who work at the Chernobyl nuclear station but live in Slavotic, to get to work, we need to go through this area that is in the Republic of Belarus. In order to promote our international authority, the Party of Regions also proposes to vote in favour. We will vote for ourselves, and we will ask you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u43	Anatoly Matvienko, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u44	Ukrainian Sobor Platform, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, I think we really need to support the ratification of this agreement. But I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that this is not economic in terms of the future of our state and its security. You remember our history with Moldova when we gave up our territory in a matter of tens of miles, took away our monopoly in this region to use ports in the Black Sea, and thus weakened our economy. It seems to me that this can be viewed as a temporary step, but in principle we have to decide the roads that would strategically ensure the functioning of our state and the good communication of all cities and settlements in Ukraine. So I'm going to ask my colleagues to ratify, but in principle we have to go to a government that would have an autonomous security programme, not through other countries, but through its territory of unifying our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u45	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u47	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u48	Vladimir Yavorowski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I know this way very well, I've come across it several times, and I can testify that it's very wasteful and inconvenient. And it's not usually about the tourist route, where there's a person, there, once a year, there, at least, there, that's where he's using it all, but it's about the workers of the Chernobyl atomic station. And it works there for almost a thousand people, you know. And now the construction of this second sarcophagus will begin. And of course it's very embarrassing for many people. Because of this, it is certainly a very positive solution. But I am in solidarity with my colleague, Matthew, about the temporary solution. The birthday boy's not going anywhere. It's a new city. By the way, a very famous city built after the Chernobyl disaster. There's a lot of people working there and they're going to work, of course, in Chernobyl, because these guys have to be cared for, and the fuel that's left over, and those less than 800 temporary funerals that are in the Chernobyl area, and this problem is going to have to be solved. And what I want to say is that it's very good, at last, that the prosecutor's office is doing one thing well, that they're now looking at the use of funds in Chernobyl, and the closure, and the service of a closed Chernobyl nuclear station, which is literally a black hole, and where literally these donor millions are absorbed that are helping us other countries. That's why we're going to vote for it. This ratification has to be supported. And the government really needs to think about how to solve this problem for the future, because this solution is temporary.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u49	Yuri Litwin, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u50	I'd like to give the floor to Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u51	Oleg Zarubinski, please, People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u52	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Honorable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is immediately warned by the just about the fact that this covenant cannot be of an eternal nature, that it must be of a temporary nature. I would like to say that, according to the agreement and in the agreement itself, the text of the agreement says that it's going to be 5 years, 5 years, and without notice, without denying the parties when these 5 years are due, for another 1 year. Thus, the principle of temporaryity is laid down. On the other hand, I would like to say that, aside from what I rightly pointed out, what colleagues rightly emphasized, what it was about loadings and workers at the Chernobyl station, it is worth saying that it also applies to foreign specialists involved in various international projects at the Chernobyl station, including the creation of an alienation zone. So for Ukraine, this is very important, you know. So when there are foreign experts, there are obviously foreign projects that are international. This is how the financing of these measures takes place. In general, I would like to say that this covenant, its text, can be a measure of even an example of how to prepare from the executive authority of the covenant. [[This isn't always happening, I've been talking about it.]] Why? Because the warnings are forewarned, no one has talked about this today. I'll read, "Transitioners can't deviate from the Slavitch-AES route," and they can't drive unlisted in cargo documents, as well as people who don't have passes. One. The other one. In the course of carrying the goods, the sealing is further applied and those responsible for sealing the cargo, and the storage of seals during transit through the territory of the Republic of Belarus relies on the consignor." It's the right thing to do. They may seem detailed when we speak of great politics, but these are properly written things that are warning that this treaty cannot become uncomfortably for Ukraine. It is worth supporting, and there are no warnings. Our faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u53	Thank you. Vladimir Caplienko. Then – Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u54	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! Of course, the MP's Reform for the Future will support this initiative, we'll add our votes to the ratification. But I would like us to pause, you know, this verbal speculation on this issue. There's no charge on the State Budget over the big ones. The only problem is that the station’s staff travels by car or bus through Komarin. That's it. Within the framework of the plan, the organizational arrangements that have been under way since 1996 require, in principle, an unhindered crossing of the State border. Anyone who's ever been there knows that it's a procedure, it's complicated, especially when they're driving a part of it by car, for example, a confilence that's being added to the sarcophagus that's being built right now. That's quite a proposition. And you don't have to speculate that it looks like something in Jujulesto or Moldova. This has nothing to do with it. And it's not a cost-effective project, and it's temporary because it's only five years old.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u55	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u56	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! As a representative of the Chernigiv region, I am witnessing that, through the roadblock of the pass "Slavitch-Komarin" from Chernigov and Slavutić to the Chernobyl AES and back to the main part of the cargo and people. The operationality of this movement is quite often crucial to solving the emergency problems at the station. It should be noted that the Belarusian side has always understood and contributed to this issue. Such should be the good relations between the brotherly countries. But the agreement on the simplified order of movement of workers, vehicles and cargoes of the Chernobyl AES is an extremely important and necessary document and needs to be ratified. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. We had no practical objection to the Committee's proposals, namely the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Belarus on the simplified procedure for the movement of the Slavutic-Cranobilsk AES area of the region of the Republic of Belarus, workers, vehicles and cargoes of the Chernobyl AES and enterprises operating in the alien zone, as well as foreign experts involved in the implementation of international projects related to the closure of the Chernobyl AES and the Protocol to it. [[Registration number 0256]] Please vote. [[10:52:15]] For 384 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 176, "BUT – Fatherland" – 97, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 32, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 15. Yes, honourable national deputies, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank and the Letter amending the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank and the Letter amending the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. [[Development of a water supply and water supply system in the city of Mikolai]] [[Development of a water supply and water supply system in the city of Mikolai]] [[Development of a water supply and water supply system in the city of Mikolai]] [[Registration number 0259]] An offer, honourable colleagues, if there is no objection, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:53:25]] For 207 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Semchuk Grigori Mihajlovich. The reporter is Stephen Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank has been introduced for your consideration. [[Development of a water supply and water supply system in the city of Mikolai]] The subject of the legislative initiative is the President of Ukraine. The aim of the project is to ensure a European level of environmental safety, to achieve full compliance with national standards for the treatment of watercourses and to reduce them to water objects, to bring the cleaning system and to supply drinking water to the city’s population according to European standards. The problems that Santa has in this area, you know. Helpful. The total cost of the project is 31 million. Own funds -- 15 and a half million, 15 and a half million -- bank funds, grants -- 4.7 million dollars. The time limit for lending is 8 years. Borrowing is 3 years. Interest rate – up to 2 percent. [[the state of affairs for today]] The Bank's one-off commission is 1 percent. The source of the loan's repayment is profit, and it's going to be profit, the city's Santa Canal utility. There's no need for government funding. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Stepan Kurpil, you're on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u60	Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration at its meeting discussed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank and the Letter on changes to the Financial Agreement. [[Development of a water supply and water supply system in the city of Mikolayev]] The ratification of the agreement will enable the European Investment Bank to contribute 15 million EUR 540 000 to enable the city's community utility, Mikolayev Water Channel, to launch the project "Development of a Water Supply and Water Management System in the City of Mikolayev". This project aims to significantly improve the operation of the water supply and water supply system, to ensure a European level of environmental safety and to bring national standards for the treatment of sewage to Europeans. The implementation of the project takes into account the region’s urgent needs and is supported by local authorities. Thus, the ratification of the financial agreement and the letter to it will allow the creation of a legal framework for the implementation of a project for the reconstruction and modernization of water supply systems in the city of Mikolayev, which will help to solve social and environmental problems, as well as improve the quality and safety of drinking water in the water supply system. The European Integration Committee considers it appropriate to ratify the said agreement, which is in line with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u61	Yes, thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this bill. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u62	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are also ratifying changes to the corresponding letter. And there's two changes: the first change, it's about shutting down the links to the grant, because the 4.7 million grant is, of course, already solved. And the second question is to make changes to the addition from which the borrower has to start paying the bank commission. In particular, it has been noted that the borrower pays the bank commission for obligations from the date of the treaty’s ratification rather than from the date of its signature. This provides an opportunity to resolve some of the questions. The second point, since the ratification of the agreement and the letter to it is aimed at developing a water supply and water supply system in the city of Mikolayev and bringing them to European standards, will indeed improve the social and living conditions of the people of Mikolayeva. A party of regions will vote in favour and call on all members of the Supreme Council to follow our example as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u63	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine" faction is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u64	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Stanislav Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u65	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Next is George Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Karpuk! Indeed, this covenant must be signed, we must not act. But I would like to talk about the shortcomings of this agreement. And I think if the water channel itself, Mikolayevvokal had signed this agreement, maybe he wouldn't have signed it under a framework like that signed by officials from the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, first of all, it's a shame that our country has lost the opportunity to even get a TACIS grant because our country is still being separated from the European Union. I think that the conditions that I'm going to call, maybe, really, the water channel wouldn't sign. For example, the borrower pays the commission at a rate of 0.10 percent. This could be between 100 and 150,000 euros. Plus all the debt that needs to be repaid. I mean, actually, it's a double load. If someone reads the documents carefully, the explanatory note refers to the euroborg, the interbank rate. In the agreement itself comes the library. I think it shows how documents were prepared. Please tell me, can you sign a contract that should be paid from the time of signature and not from the time of ratification? If someone hadn't noticed, we would have been paying for this loan by the end of February 2, 2010. There are a number of comments from Minfin, Minoust. Can't government officials fix this before we go to Luxembourg? Among other things, the framework agreement was signed in 2005. Seven or eight years from now, this project is only being implemented. For the opening of the Water Channel loan, he has to pay 0.5 percent right now, that's almost 80,000 euros. LIBOR plus 2 percent, the bank commission is 1 percent. Of course, officials don't care what they sign. But it's gonna pay for Santa's Water Channel. Therefore, my appeal to the officials. Please take care of the owners if they are even state - owned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u67	Yuri Litwin, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u68	Please give the word to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u69	Oleg Zarubinski, please. Corge will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u70	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I have to correct some of the things that have just been said. Indeed, it is not legally correct when a contract has been signed, more specifically, a signed agreement, when it comes to payment by the banking commission since the signing of the agreement, not from the time of ratification. We're gonna fix this right now. Indeed, since the ratification. But, respectable bankers, agree that no one would pay the bank commission if they didn't give money. And until that point, if it hadn't been ratified by the Supreme Council, no money would have been made available. Isn't that right, Mr. Arjovethin? That's right. So let's talk as it is. There are people who are also taking care of each other. First. The second moment I have to make up for, the grant issue. Who loves grants, we have a lot of people who love grants, but in this case, we need to get grants on the Vodokanal. Does this deprive you of the possibility of receiving grants? No, it doesn't. Because look at how the funds are distributed: the loan costs are 15.54 million euros, and the other part is the local budget costs are "a"; the "b" is the company's costs and the "v" is the grant costs. [[15.54]] That's the possibility of grant loans. Not a loan, let's say the possibility of a grant is present. I'm sorry? I'm sorry. Now let's say that there are positive things in that agreement. In large numbers, dear colleagues, it could become a framework. That's how we ratify various international treaties and often, we say, it's a framework agreement, it's a framework agreement. This is to become, an honorable deputy minister, a framework minister, because it is convenient in Ukraine. I'd like to say that we still have to find a deal where the interest rate would be 0.55 times. Second, where the rate of interest on the loan is 0 percent. We still need to find such agreements. I think the pimps will be comfortable with this deal for three reasons: it kills three rabbits: sewage treatment, clean water that goes to the consumer, and, of course, better ecology. She needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u71	The National Deputy Korge is transferring the right to speak to Yuri Hanustak, please, the Faction "BUT is the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen! This is the very case where we can see that it is local self - government, not government that can actually do something about it. So that's how long this deal has been done, enough even for the flaws that Arzhivitein said. But let's look at the risks that the city takes, not compared to what the state takes when it adopts stupid laws. So back to the mistakes that the city might have made. Remember that loan Odessa took in the early '90s. Yes, they almost went into the pipe, but it was a guarantee that in the Budget Code we had clearly identified those warnings, those warnings that prevented cities from entering the debt pits. While the state climbs relentlessly and thoughtlessly into the same debt hole and stops I don't know how we can. Today I'm going to try to do this in the middle of the day with my bill. What will we gain from this covenant? First, we're going to learn to work with European financial structures, learn cities, teach regions, because that's what we have to do, because long ago all Europe is working at the regional level. Because they're used to saying that the best Chamber of Commerce and Industry is the regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Because there is never a road with the state, they go into great politics forever when it comes to making a regional economy. Because sewerage has no flags, no water canal has no flags, and clean water is not the decision of big party bosses at the central level. So let's still support this very good initiative of the local government and we'll continue to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u73	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u74	Because Ukraine will only be saved by a local self - government reform that has long matured.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, Gennady the Bull. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u76	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Gennady Bullying, Santa Claus. It is indeed a pleasure when local authorities are doing a great deal to obtain additional funds for the reconstruction of a very important sector in the city of Nicholas. But I'd like to say thank you to the city's head and the water canal manager, because this is a unique example. Such bills and such cases are very and very few, unfortunately. In fact, only local self - government can save Ukraine, I agree with the statement that has just been made. What problems do we solve? Water quality, sewage, ecology is very important for Santa, because it's the South Bug, because it's the Black Sea Basin. But I wanted to say what, for example, concerns me. What will be the tariffs in Santa? I hope that the authorities will do everything they can to make such tariffs more or less controlled. The contractor, the money won't go anywhere because the tender will be run by the department of profile and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u77	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u78	And the third question is very important. Will Santa have the money to fulfill his obligations? Because the city of Mikolai also has to spend 15.5 million euros on fulfilling its obligations. Because I don't think that money is actually in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The Committee and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration propose to make a positive decision on this bill. The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank and the Letter amending the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. [[Development of a water supply and water supply system in the city of Mikolayev]] [[Development of a water supply and water supply system in the city of Mikolayev]] [[Registration number 0259]] Please vote. [[11:08:20]] For 396 The law is passed. By factions, please: The Party of Regions – 179, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 99, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" 41, communists 21, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 17. Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Depravity is under review. [[Registration number 0232]] Suggestion: To consider the matter under reduced procedure. [[11:09:13]] For 209 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Dmitry Voron. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Committee in the foreign affairs of Taras Cnerovil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Depravity. On behalf of Ukraine, the Convention was signed on November 14, 2007. The convention took effect on July 1, 2010. The declaration to article 37 of the convention is based on the fact that in Ukraine the State authorities authorized to store information on the identity and genetic code of the DNA of persons convicted of crimes established in accordance with this convention in order to prevent and ensure their criminal persecution are the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The declaration to article 38 of the Convention aims to establish as the widest cooperation of the competent treaty bodies in connection with the investigation and prosecution of persons for crimes established in accordance with the convention. The result of the ratification of the convention is the creation of an effective international legal mechanism to combat, halt and prevent the sexual exploitation of children through legislative and other measures aimed at improving legal regulation and establishing responsibility for crimes involving the exploitation of children. The ratification by our State of the convention will confirm Ukraine's intention to participate actively in the fight against such a dangerous phenomenon as the sexual exploitation of children who have acquired an international character and will contribute to the formation of a positive image of our nation in the international arena. Taking into account the changes made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the title of the text of the official translation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Violence, not "disgusting" although confirmed. At a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Foreign Affairs, the bill was reviewed and a decision was taken to recommend to the Supreme Council to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Violence in a revised official translation. In this regard, and bearing in mind the importance and sensitivity of the issue, I ask the Supreme Council to adopt a bill that takes account of the change in the name of the convention and to change one word of "disgusting" to "violence". And please ratify and accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u82	So we heard. Now Taras Cranwell will talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u83	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies. On the subject of this draft Law on Ratification, our committee met twice, as has just been said. The point of the deal itself is not going to be, the convention, I'm not going to advertise it once, it's just been introduced. It really meets all those international standards for the protection of children’s rights from sexual exploitation and sexual violence, and that is why it is our absolute sacred duty to join this convention. There can't be two different thoughts here at all, I think, and I'm sure we'll be the only ones. Interested parties: the Ministry of Justice, other ministries and departments, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Law Enforcement, and so on, all supported the ratification of this convention in Ukraine. The only thing was the scientific expert's warning that it needed to be ratified together with the adoption of the relevant Law on Amendments to Ukrainian Legislation, it was presented and today it is being considered as necessary. And the second point is the most important. Our committee, in cooperation with public organizations, particularly La Strada, has identified an inadequacy, a certain inadequacy in the translation of the treaty itself. The word "disgusting" does not match the text, the authentic text used in the contract. More appropriate, in our view, is the word "abuse," "sexual abuse," but we agreed on the position of joint ministries and authorities, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Justice, which can be used in the word "violence." And that's why we're proposing to ratify the agreement, but with the corresponding two, I'm speaking for the transcript, the corrections. In the title of the Law on Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Depravity, the word "disgusting" changes to "violence" and in the first paragraph, which also mentions this name, the word "disgusting" changes to "violence". A revised translation, as specified in the Supreme Council, is already available. He's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm literally 10 seconds away, I'll finish the protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u85	He's completely in line with the Foreign Ministry. With the Presidential Administration, this change is fully agreed upon. The Cabinet of Ministers was actively involved in making these corrections available in the translation. Therefore, with these two clarifications, I ask that I support the ratification of this agreement, and after that, it will no longer be reported by our committee, in accordance with the Law on Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine, in connection with this convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u86	Thank you. No, it's the next bill. This is the next one, this isn't the bill. Now we're going to ratify, then we're going to ratify. It's just a convention we're looking at right now. Next. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Then Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to your colleague, Vaschuk Katherina Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u88	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I think that each and every one of us today is seeing what is happening to a certain part of our people, the so-called predators, the criminals, I don't even know how to say who are doing such shameful things today, corrupting, raping children. Likely, there are no mothers or fathers who can afford to let their children, their relatives, their loved ones, and their children. And that's what happens in Ukraine. Therefore, we today can be confident that all that applies to international agreements must be ratified! And the second. We absolutely need to make our legislation more responsible, stricter, more serious in this regard. What we see on television today is not acceptable. You have to punish the people who promote it through video, through the Internet, through various movies and games such violence that really becomes an incentive, like it provokes such things in society. Ladies and gentlemen, we are Christians. And Ukrainians have always had morals, morality in relation to the child, to the mother, and so on. Therefore, the matter of honor today of the Supreme Council is to make the laws put an end to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u90	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u91	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! The ratification of the convention will enable Ukraine to implement an effective international legal mechanism to stop and prevent the sexual exploitation of children. First, it will help bring our national legislation into line with European standards. But in parallel, we need to make appropriate changes to current legislation in order to implement additional measures aimed at creating protective protective and criminal justice mechanisms to combat all forms of sexual exploitation and sexual violence of children. This will ensure that Ukraine’s legislation is in line with modern European standards. Secondly, at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we will also be able to report on the fulfilment of our obligations. And most of all, we agree that we have to change the word "disgusting" to the word "violence," because that corresponds to the correct translation. A party of regions will be in favour and also calls on all national deputies to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u92	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u93	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of "The Fatherland". Of course, an assembly is needed. There are things we need very much. But we need to understand that they must be provided financially in Ukraine. For example, storing all the DNA data of those citizens who have shown or shown any manifestations in this direction, and being convicted of crimes in this direction, you need to have such a data bank. In order to do this, the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs needs to further create the conditions for the maintenance or maintenance of such a data bank and its completion, as well as the operational work on such data. The second thing I'd like to say is that I don't agree with the fact that corruption and violence can be replaced. The thing is, they're not even synonymous. Violence is violence. And depravity is action, and they're qualified in different ways in law. These are actions that, in general, can contribute to the child’s completely abnormal upbringing: involving him in the viewing of any sexual pictures or movies with a future countenance that this child will be engaged in the activity that the adult is already engaged in that depraves him. So I wouldn't go to replace one word with another. There's depravity, there's violence, there's exploitation, there's different things. Therefore, it is not easy to reject the problem of depravity. I think these are different aspects, they need to be preserved, and in the convention, they need to be preserved in full. So all that's going to happen here, and contacts with countries that won't even sign this convention, and contacts with countries that sign it, they have to provide for a whole set of activities that includes both both the two and the third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u94	Thank you. Radovec, group "Reforms for the Future"
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u95	Please pass the word to a colleague of the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u96	Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u97	Thank you, Arnold Anatolyovich. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction will certainly support this bill and be willing to vote on the next one that we will talk about afterwards. But let's talk about the essence of this ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Depravity and Exploitation. First of all, I would like to say there are internal problems, there are problems of cooperation, international cooperation, including, and there are problems of exploiting our children abroad. They can be divorced. Of course, this ratification requires amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code and the Criminal Code of Ukraine, such as the introduction of a system, a new system, there, the interrogation of minors or those involved, and ending with responsibility for people involved in cooperation with these children or forcing them to do what they should not do, and this is not inherent in their psycho-emotional state. But I would like to pay attention to the following. I also disagree with the fact that the word "disgusting" can be completely replaced by the word "violence," because depravity, in my opinion, is a word that carries so much pressure, that it's actually coercion, it's involving a child, it's drawing some other pictures that actually lead to that violence. And violence is an act that takes place in a long-range sphere either happens or takes place. That's why it's a little bit strange how you can change that. I would like to remind you that there was a situation in Odessa where a child on a social network met a boy his own age. He sends pornographic pictures, throws them out into the street, and there's a tragedy, and the police don't react. Because, well, that's where the parents intervened, and there was no violence. But the police aren't responding because there was no violence itself. Do you understand? Well, it can't be like that. Of course we will, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the matter. I draw your attention to what we should now consider after the ratification of the amendment to legislation. And there, obviously, we have all those definitions, the violence, the depravity to give them a clear definition of what Vladimir Bondarenko said. At the same time, I understand that both the committee and the ministry are proposing that the text be authentic in translation into the Ukrainian language. Is that what I'm saying? So the word "disgusting" is replaced by the word "violence." So we need, honourable colleagues, to vote in favour of the precise name of the draft law first, if we support it then we will vote in general. Do you understand the offer? The proposal to specify the name of the draft law is put to the vote: replace the word "disgusting" with the word "violence". Please vote. [[11:23:32]] For 393 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows. Now. By factions, when the law is passed. The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the European Council Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Violence is put to the vote. [[Registration number 0232]] Please vote. [[11:24:10]] For 394 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I understand why the factions. It's gonna be the factions. Region Party – 183, "BUT – "Fathership" – 98, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 35, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 14. Can I talk to you for a minute? We haven't finished the ratification review. We have two more questions. Dear colleagues, I offered and agreed. Well, 2 questions of ratification related yet, well, what are you? Please, Chechetov. Please, Kožemyakin and Chechetov. Please. There's something wrong with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u99	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We spoke at the Conciliation Council that the President of Ukraine, Mr. Yanukovic, today wants to shock the whole world with his claims that Julia Timoshenko is somehow guilty of killing Mr. Szczerban. This is a direct public team for the Attorney General's Office and for the Ukrainian court that Timoshenko is guilty of. So in order to deal objectively with the matter, to take it under the control of the Supreme Council, we demand that we ask questions about the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry to investigate the matter objectively and to gather information. And then we'll see who wants the truth and who doesn't. And we'll see where Mr. Scherbian's assets are and where they are, and who has the cabinets with the bones and the skeletons behind his back.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u101	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We have ratified Convention No.0232 with you, and Act No. 9434 provides for a mechanism for the implementation of the Convention. But the point is that the law was prepared for an imperfect translation. And today we have ratified the convention in a new translation. Therefore, in order to synchronize the provisions, paragraphs of the law, articles of the law fully with the convention, please postpone consideration of the law to the following week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, regarding two suggestions made by Andrija Kozemyakin and Mikhail Chechtov. When your request came out in the morning, I suggested that after the completion of the consideration of the ratification section, I put to the vote to go to the consideration of two draft TSC regulations. But since we have not yet completed our consideration of this question, this chapter, I told you that let us wait. Mikhail Chechtov proposes to postpone consideration of the draft law, which should develop the position of the Convention that we have just approved, in view of the need to clarify terms and refine as proposed by both the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Is that what this is about? Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u103	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me just at the same time offer us this practice. We know how we have broken through with the translation of the language charter of Europe when the absolutely loving translation is coming to us as a document. Let's take this as a rule: there must be an official translation on which is the seal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the name of the translator that translates it, because otherwise we will accept it, in fact, that no one will ever figure it out again!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u104	The proposal was absolutely correct, indeed, when one politician said: "The proposal is obedient." We need authentic certified text. Therefore, I propose and support the proposal just made by Mikhailo Chechetov and postpone consideration of draft law registration number 9434. Is there no objection? It's about the second draft law on change, there's an official translation. Dear colleagues, we are advised to vote for the first time. But what, then, of the first article again? Let's put it this way: we've put the matter on hold. All of it. Next. Wait a minute! Now you and I were supposed to consider the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on the Order of Transfer of Samples of Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Their Precursors. [[within SND countries]] But that's the situation here, dear colleagues. We adopted this bill as a basis on June 6. 14 days to amend. Today, June 20, and a number of deputies have come forward with claims that their amendments, which have been made at the right time, have not been taken into account. That's why it's obvious to us. Just a minute. We need to postpone consideration of this law. Taras Cranwell's position on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, when we considered this bill for the first time, was set a specific date by which the committee was to submit it. We voted in favour of cutting back. Short-term procedure's over, week's up. We accepted two amendments: one amendment to a committee member, which brings together all the issues of all the central executive bodies, and the second amendment is the colleagues of "Our Ukraine" Karpuk. We've considered those amendments, they're taken into account in the way that it was necessary to correct the law. What else can we talk about? We've had a brief procedure, it's been a week enough. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the summary procedure was, the committee entered into your deadline, it was said that for today's session we have to submit this document in a second reading -- we submitted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u106	Yeah, I checked now, your logic is here. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Well, let's not take too long.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I'm not going to delay my time, I haven't even delivered a single speech today, no matter what kind of basic bill I've adopted right now. I would like to point out that 18.06. My amendments are registered at 116.62.00. – 18.06, date of the 19th Committee. They're not included in the table, I insist on inclusion. Obviously, a number of other deputies who insist have the right to be included in their deliberations at a meeting of the Supreme Council, more than that. I gave them to you at the right time, they're written down for me. 18th number registered. I, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, ask you not to violate the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u108	Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u109	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, distinguished colleagues! Cranwell's colleague is right. Listen, Yuri Anatolyovich. I'm reading a transcript of the sixth-number session.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u110	In view of the fact that there are appropriate scientific and expert comments and the position of the committee, let's move forward in this way: let's consider making a decision as a basis. [[May I have your attention, please?]] If the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports, with the commission of the committee for the next plenary meeting, that is to say, 20 to work on proposals with the government. So I'm voting on these proposals. Please vote. 1045. For 270 votes." So there's been a cut-off procedure and an assignment to prepare for the 20th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, in a decree signed on the basis of the adoption and acceptance, the first paragraph is to take the basis of the first reading, the second paragraph, to entrust the short-term process of processing and to submit the 20th paragraph to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. So there is a proposal to consider this issue in a simplified way. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry! Let's take a picture. I'm already confused, dear colleagues, it's probably under the impression of last night after soccer. Second reading, please, Taras Cranovil. We are voting on the amendments. Thanks for the tip.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u112	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Since, in fact, a number of questions and positions of central executives and Đrmitek and border services and the Ukrainian Security Service and others were raised on the first issue that we voted on in the first reading, we held an urgent meeting on our committee with the involvement of all interested central executive authorities, we concluded that the text really needs some adjustments. And these adjustments are now presented in a comparative table, because individual ministries don't have the right to legislative initiative, there are amendments on my behalf that we're about to present to your judgment. And so this amendment number one under the name of Chernobyl, it represents, not my position, but the consolidated position of the Central Executive Authorities, including the Ministry of Justice, the Ukrainian Security Service and so forth. And there's the second amendment, the National Deputy Karpuk, which provides for the proposal to take into account the observation of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, but it's actually absorbed by the first amendment, which is included in the full scope, because it's in the first amendment that these observations are taken into account. So we support and approve this position, but we've taken it into account in a slightly different wording. That's why the committee's proposal is to support the first amendment and the second is automatically included in this edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, no one insists on voting the amendments? No, it's not. That is why I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement on the Order of Transfer of Samples of Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Their Precursors. [[Registration number 0251]] Please vote. [[11:35:42]] For 383 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm going to put to the vote the two factions' proposal to consider now. Just a minute. To consider the draft regulations for the creation of temporary investigation committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration numbers: 9685 and 10467]] This proposal is put to the vote, please make a decision. [[11:36:35]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 98, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 51, Communists, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, non-fractional – 6. Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions to announce the recess, Michael Tomenko will make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, the current vote has clearly demonstrated why we need to vote on the next bill on removing immunity from the President, because, if this does not happen, we will be hearing daily statements that are not inherent in a democratic society that cannot be explained in terms of ethics, humanity and morality. I'll remind you that Victor Janukovic said in one of the comments to Bloomberg: "The crimes committed in various criminal cases were committed at the hands of Timoshenko, it's not a secret for the whole world, it was, including the murder of Scherban, there were motives for it." As you know, we said, we're ready to create a special investigation commission and analyze, see who killed Scherban, who took his assets, who made a career in business today, and the real estate of those teenage businessmen who were buried in the Donetsk region. Sadly, though, most fear voting for it. I believe that such a statement by Yanukovic in general in a normal civilized country would have to be the reason for the impeachment procedure. That's why we need to put it into the agenda today and refer to the Constitutional Court the decision to remove the President's inviolability, because if that's not the case, we'll hear these statements every day. But nevertheless, we're going to get to that question today, and hopefully we'll talk about it and we'll vote. But at the request of the opposition, I would like to make a statement regarding today’s meeting, the so - called Constitutional Assembly. We, as representatives of the united opposition and the Fatherland faction, and our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense, claim that we have not gathered and are not going to participate in the so-called Constitutional Assembly. Why do we say in the so-called Constitutional Assembly? Because the Constitutional Assembly is a body to which people are elected rather than appointed to the Presidential Administration. You know, in its time, the Constitution wanted to change the two previous presidents, but that's what they did in the last year of their tenure. Why did Janukovic now decide to change the Constitution? Because he understands perfectly that he has no chance of resorting to a second term, and today he needs an advisory body with him to create all the conditions to change the Constitution and ensure the transfer of power to a second term. As representatives of the opposition, we have always defended the constitutional right of Parliament to change the Constitution. In Parliament today they have taken over the right to actually change the budget, to assign the personnel, to take over today and to change the Constitution. So the position of our faction is very simple: we are for the democratic, European, Ukrainian Constitution. But it needs to be changed by parliament, and it needs to change in the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, not in the interests of Yanukovic and his environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I propose a draft Act amending article 328 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on grounds for refusal to open cassation]] [[Registration number 10287]] Should we vote or should we discuss it? Please, Helen Juryovna Šustik, a justification for the importance of this bill. Who will be speaking from the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u116	Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The purpose of the proposed bill is to ensure the real right of everyone who complains to the court to a case. I propose to delete a rule that allows the court today to reject a cassation complaint without justification. Paragraph 5 of Part Three, article 328 of the Civil Procedure Code provides for the right of a judge to refuse to open a cassation by, as it were, an irregularity of a cassation complaint. However, the court does not state the reasons for this refusal and the reasons for the decision. In fact, this rule deprives tens of thousands of people of the right to legal protection in a year and examines their complaints in court. The higher specialized court in civil and criminal matters in the past year and the first quarter of this year, on such a deliberate basis as groundless complaint, refused to consider the case in fact in 30,000 cases. This is a broad opportunity for abuse, especially in the absence of justice, objectivity, and impartiality in the courts. The odds that a cassation complaint will be considered by the court are essentially meagre. Refusal to open a cassational complaint under the conditions of due process is a violation of the constitutional right to judicial protection. So I'm asking you to back up the bill. And I emphasize that citizens send letters, write emails and make calls asking to make our judicial system a fairer and more humane way of adopting this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u117	Thank you, too. From the committee, who will be speaking? None. Please write down if there is a need to discuss the matter. Yuri Prokopchuk, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u118	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT-"Batychina", Ravenshina. Obviously, the problem is urgent and, indeed, the bill needs to be supported. Everyone has seen the past, and this year, for example, some monster in a robe has been pushing the trial to try Julia Timoshenko illegally. [[Kiriev]] The same monster in his robe unlawfully condemned Yuri Lucenka. But to this day, for some reason, all the cassation applications that need to be considered immediately are prolonged by Yanukovich’s authority. This indicates that directly participating in the courts, in reprisals, in the conviction of illegal political prisoners: Julius Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, and Valery Ivashchenko and others are taken by Yanukovich. Janukovic, who is to be the guarantor of the Constitution, is the guarantor of these criminal cases. There are new criminal tales coming along. And that's why the non-admission of the decision to establish a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the murder of Eugene Scherbian, the resonant killings of journalists and other businessmen not only in the Donetsk region, but also in Ukraine, tells us that the authorities are actually afraid of this and are avoiding this issue. Because responsibility rests with those who have really taken over real business and Scrubbing and other businessmen today. Therefore, although this bill could have accelerated the process of the cassation and should be supported. Justice is and should be fought for. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u119	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u120	Please pass the word to Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u122	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Of course, only the Constitution can deprive a person of his or her right. My colleague Shustik is absolutely right to make his legislative proposal. This right has also been confirmed by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, who said that the bill could be adopted as a basis, taking further account of the observations. I'd like to add to what my colleague Shustik said, things like that. According to article 328, paragraph 5, of the third article, the CDC effectively deprives citizens of the right to appeal and thus violates the rights of a person to judicial protection guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. This is article 55, 129, and is confirmed by the Constitutional Court’s decision of 27 January 2010 to appeal the court’s ruling. According to which a court’s refusal to accept a court’s application is a violation of the right to a court’s defence, which cannot be restricted under article 64 of the Constitution. In our country, we are accustomed to restricting this right. They saw what they had done to the Chernobylites, who had made war with the children, which they had done with other categories of people. Today, 1.5 million claims by the criminal government of Azarov are not implemented; the state in which the decisions of the courts are not enforced is no longer a state. Because of this, I thank my colleague Shustik for this project, and I urge everyone to support the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority to adopt the bill in the first reading, entrusting it with the task of developing it within the time limit established by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u123	Dear people's deputies, no one insists anymore? I therefore put to the vote a motion for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 328 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on grounds for refusal to open cassation]] [[Registration number 10287]] [[11:47:50]] For-144 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The region's party is 0, "BUT" is 80, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" is 35, the Communists are 25, the People's Party, "Reforms for the Future" is 0, non-factional is 4. Dear colleagues, we have two draft decrees concerning the anniversary dates. If there was no objection, we simply included them in the agenda and then discussed them. Your opinion is proposed by the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lviv district, Vladimir Yavorowski. [[10477]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u124	Dear national MPs, our constituents! I'm very short. It's a legendary city. Because of it, you can read the entire history of Ukraine. It has led to three wars, three colossal historic battles of the City of so - called battles. The city, which is 30 kilometers from Lviv and, in fact, is the ear of the needle, through which the enemy, for example, was to pass through, there was an army during the attacks and so forth, first to take the Town of the West, and only then to go to Lviv. That was the case in Cosachina’s day, and so it was during World War I, and so it was during World War II, by the way. In the city, the Fascists established a European concentration camp, where some 30,000 Jews were exiled and, in fact, all of them were shot. At the time of the war under City there is this village of Cherljane, where the reserve airport of Lviv, where there was a huge military town, is now connected after the disbandment of this military unit, it is connected to the town. The unique city where Franco was, where Maxim Rilski was, was inhabited by many outstanding people. Our committee has been approached by the City Council, which is the district center for today. A very neat, beautiful town with many monuments. And I, Mikhailo Kosov and Kendiser, have prepared this draft of the Order and we ask that it be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u125	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Nobody insists? Then I, if no one insists, propose to include in the agenda of the daily project the 800th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Lviv district. [[Registration number 10477]] Please vote. [[11:50:54]] For 358 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! Now you have a proposal for a draft Order marking the 340th anniversary of Philip Orlik's birth for inclusion in the agenda. [[Registration number 10513]] Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u126	Dear voters! Dear Parliamentarians! You know, in our Ukrainian history there were a lot of hethmen, they were different. They were better, they were worse. That's life. And perhaps today, Philip Orlik, actually a hetman in exile, is hardly even mentioned by us today, and it is hardly worth even making that decision. But Philip Orlik is famous, uniquely even, I would say, famous for what he did. In fact, somehow we knew about it a little earlier. Because it was something like this on the periphery, let's say it was national. And literally, about 15-20 years ago, this whole story opened up. And most of all, what was found was absolutely strangely discovered, the manuscript of a unique document -- the first one in the world, I emphasize, the first one in the world of a democratic constitution to propose the distribution of power. It was about Cossacks, but where they were limited and controlled by the Gethtman Society, where the Cossacks Council was performing the role that we are playing with you today. This was written in Bender by Philip Orlik, when no one, any of the countries, had a constitution and had not even been mentioned. She was for a long time, as a result of the fact that Orlik was exiled and was constantly migrated from one country to Sweden, then lived in Turkey, then in Poland. And you can imagine his son Orlik, his own son, who was in Paris and landed at Eagle Airport, that's, in fact, his son's land, where this famous airport was built. But found in his son’s castle, a manuscript of this unique constitution was found. It's been published today. They know about her today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u127	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u128	Who knows about the world. As a result, of course, we should observe the Jubilee of this outstanding man. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u129	Thank you. Thank you. It's not. It's a day-to-day inclusion. Well, please, Stanislaw Arzhevtin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u130	Dear national deputies, of course, we will support this decision. But I have the opportunity to contact you. Let's do this: the best gift for our Cossack-Brothers will still be to be included in the agenda at the end of the Cossacking Act in Ukraine. For 4 years this bill has been in the walls of the Supreme Council. The government that came today, among other things, reversed the concept of Ukrainian Cossacks, which the Cossacks had been working on for ten years. The government cancelled, cancelled, the Cossack Council as an advisory body to the President of Ukraine. Today's government in the Ministry of Education has stopped the Cossacks Program of Jury. The only thing left is to cancel the celebration of the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks. That's why I'm addressing you, especially you from the Party of Regions, you from those Cossack lands and the author of the bill is Yuri Miroshnichenko, Jaroslav Suhi, Viacheslav Boguslaev. Please put the Cossacks Act in order for the fourth year in Ukraine, otherwise you have stopped the entire Ukrainian Cossack movement in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's draft Order to mark 340th anniversary of Philip Orlik's birth. [[Registration number 10513]] Please vote. [[11:55:25]] For 344 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to take a decision with you on the matter under discussion, namely the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion in the agenda of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth draft amendment to the Constitution of Ukraine and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. [[on Intactness]] You have a project. The committee considered it. We've discussed the matter. Obviously, there is no need for further discussion. I'm putting to the vote a motion for an appropriate decision. [[Registration number 10530/P]] Please vote. All friendly, respectable colleagues. [[11:56:28]] For 389 The factions? Please. Region Party – 173, "BUT - "Patkaščina" – 99, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 51, communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 8, non-fractional – 13. Thank you for your decision, dear colleagues. A fine decision was made, knowing that there would be nothing on the way out. Thank you. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u132	Please come into the session room. We'll continue the meeting. Let's go to rereading. We are considering the draft Law on the Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign. [[Registration number 5515]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities and the National Relations of Jemiliev Mustafa. Dear colleagues, since we have once considered it as a complete procedure, will there be no objection to the reduced procedure? I'm asking you to support this proposal. [[12:30:49.]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we didn't vote. I'm not gonna make them vote. Please report. Totally, so full is your right. Please. Mustafa, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u133	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Today we are looking at a second draft of the law. You well remember the discussion that began during his last discussion on May 16. So I don't need to repeat obvious things, and some opponents need to refrain from declaring offensive nonsense. However, I have to say about the things that remained behind the bill in the session hall when it was designed for further work. First, a working group of representatives of all interested executive bodies was formed. Sadly, after meeting twice, this working group failed to work out a physical new vision of the matter. I mean, without a single body that's concerned with ethnic issues, the current executive authority is having a hard time focusing on this issue, and I'm talking about the State Committee on Nationality and Migration, which was formed last year. Secondly, at a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations under the leadership of Oleg Zarubin National People's Deputies of Ukraine, they still generalized the work of the working group and, taking into account some of the comments, approved a new revised draft law. Thirdly, the time that has passed since the last discussion of the bill for the current hour has determined the great interest and concern of international organizations, first of all, the structures of the United Nations, the Council of Europe, the European Commission and the OSCE, as part of the draft Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign. I had many visits and conversations with representatives of these organizations who would like to hear some comforting news from Ukraine. But I was not able to speak with confidence about the political will to allow this law to be passed. Perhaps we are better aware of the importance of the matter that we are considering and of the consequences of its negative consideration. On June 4, in The Hague, I met with the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities, who expressed his wish to adopt the law as soon as possible, which would pave the way for further improvement of national legislation in this area and help tens of thousands of Ukrainian citizens in the process of equipping and integrating Ukrainian society. As you well recall, the main motive behind the draft law’s redrafting was the desire of members of the coalition to see economic accounting, as they say, its value. I want to repeat the thesis that even in the case of the adoption of this law, the state is going to budget, not the calculations that we are going to make today, but the costs that will be available from the economic situation of the country. The Act on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign is only part of a whole layer of legislative and regulatory novels, from which the foundation of state policy will be built sooner or later. That's why this bill is in the zone of constant monitoring of the world community, considering that Ukraine is the last country to remain out of post-Radians space that did not take into account the same law. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that the time of this law has not passed. Aleia is confident that today’s disapproval of such a decision will leave Ukraine in the past when crimes against mankind were the foundation of state policy. I ask the National Deputies to vote in favour of adopting this law as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Any questions? You don't? Okay. Is it? Besides Carmazin, who else? Please, Mustafa, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, Sign up. Yes, please, Jaroslav Suhi. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u135	Thank you. I don't have any questions. I invite my colleagues to withdraw their questions or to ask a person personally and to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u136	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u137	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear Mustafa-aga, I am very glad that the majority of us are proposing to vote. I'm very pleased, but we could have passed this law a long time ago. Because of this, Your Honor Mustafa-aga, I understand that finance will always say that there is no money, I would say, in agreement with you, how much does justice cost? It's priceless. And justice must be restored no matter what it costs. So thank you for drafting the law. And I would like to ask you this question to you: How many persons of other nationalities, besides Crimean Tatars, will apply this law, and what nationalities? Please tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u138	It is known that some 50,000 ethnic Germans and some 10,000 Greeks were expelled from Ukraine in the years of the Second World War in 1941, as were some Armenians, Bulgarians, Greeks. The question is, however, that the struggle to return to the historic homeland was fought by the Crimean Tatars. Because this is the only territory that is home to Crimean Tatars. And now those returned to their historic homeland of all deporteds are Crimean Tatars of 98.5 per cent; the rest are Greeks, Bulgarians, Armenians, Greeks. The total number, let's say, outside the Crimea is about a hundred thousand Crimean Tatars, and we don't have that information to return to our homeland, because the main movement of these nationalities has been all attacks on the movement towards their historic nationals -- in Armenia, in Greece, in Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u139	Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u140	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Please give the word to the party’s head, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u141	Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u142	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Mustafa-aga, most of all thank you for your work under this law, for your brilliant report in the Ukrainian language, you demonstrate to all that it can be mastered by any man who desires it, unlike the provocations that most of us offer in this queen. [[Applause]] Moreover, we believe that this law must be passed long ago and that we must now vote again in the first reading to stop breaking the writings on this subject. The Crimean Tatar people need to be helped from the budget by all the forces of the Ukrainian State, because this thing needs to be solved by our forces. And no one is going to help us do that. That's why we support you, and now we're all going to vote for your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u143	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u144	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Mustafa-aga! You said that basically, 98 percent is the Crimean Tatars that come back. But I'd like to remind you of another number. And you said it was during the war and after the war. But there were deportations before the war. There were deportations in the 1940s, and in the fall, there were deportations in the winter of 41, and there were deportations, for example, from the Chernobyl area of the Romanian population, and 13,000 people were deported on June 13, 1941. Your report doesn't say they're accounted for anywhere. In addition, the Hungarian human population was deported, from Zakarpatja, near the border. The Ukrainians were also deported as a result of Operation Vistula. I think we need to take this as a basis, but all the questions I'm talking about have to be taken into account. Do you think it is necessary to solve for everyone, or just the problems that apply to Crimea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u145	Ivan Vasilovich, thank you for asking. Indeed, there were deportations of both Hungarians and Romanians and Ukrainians. But the difference between each deportation has its own characteristics. If deportation from the Crimea was clearly identified as deporting persons of such nationality, deportations, for example, were of a different nature in Zakartat, although ethnic cleansing was, of course, carried out. The same was true in Operation Visla, where the Ukrainians were deported again, but under the pretext of an exchange of territories. Therefore, I am absolutely sure that separate laws must be adopted. But since they have their own characteristics, separate laws are required for each type of deportation. We will now have before us a bill on the expulsion of Ukrainians during Operation Visla. Therefore, I think all these issues must be resolved, but they cannot be incorporated into a single bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u146	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Zarubinski Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! On May 16, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed in its first reading the draft Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign, submitted by National Deputy Mustafa Djemilev. According to the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations, it was entrusted with drafting the law and re-reading it, agreeing on financial positions with Kabmin. When the draft is being drafted, Parliament has not set for us the basic positions for the committee, the criteria to be met by the amended draft. So we came out of the material committee available. These are the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Commissioner of the OSCE in matters of the national minorities of Knut Wallebek, all interested central executive bodies. The working group, in a very narrow term given by the Supreme Council, worked out the drafting of the bill in a rather compromising manner, taking into account the comments and suggestions made to it. In particular, the project specified the number of persons who are considered deported, the conditions for granting and disposing of the deportee status, the State guarantees for deported persons and their families who have returned to Ukraine for permanent residence, the authorization of executive authorities in the area of the restoration of the rights of deported persons and their families. The project is in line with existing legislative acts, such as the laws of Ukraine on the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, on the central executive authorities, on the State Objective Programmes and on budgetary legislation. At the same time, the majority of the members of the committee supported the leave without altering certain provisions of the bill, which were urged by the subject of the law - enforcement initiative and which were of fundamental importance to the perception of the environment of deported persons. This was about keeping it in the first reading of the regulations on the use of the term "Criminal Tatar people," because, I want to stress, the forced displacement has been experienced by everyone without exception by the representatives of this nationality, it's a very important moment, all without exception. The other one. Involvement in the circle of persons who have been deported and who will have certain benefits for their offspring, namely, those who were born into families of deported persons who were deported into deportations evicted abroad. And the third. Deported persons in the employment system during the period of specialization. Commenting on the latest positions, I would like to point out that, on the one hand, it goes to a certain extent with the law on compulsory state pension insurance, but on the other hand, I would like to stress that the similar benefit is already provided for in article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, which has been rehabilitated in accordance with article 1 of this law to citizens. So there's no novelty here as such, it's already in actual legislation. With a view to achieving social justice, members of the committee view the restoration of the rights of deported persons as appropriate and to extend such benefits to this category of persons. Fourth, it's a very important facility. Securing the right to transfer to Ukrainian citizens of deported persons who have settled in a rural area of agricultural land. A corresponding change to the Ukrainian Code of Land is proposed in order to address this point. in the "transitional positions" of the amended draft law. By the way, I'm pointing out that the committee considered that part of the agricultural land was already privately owned, so the Transitional Regulations project offered a warning that land would be provided at the expense of the reserves and reserve funds if they were available. In one word, honourable colleagues, distinguished national deputies, within the limits of the powers vested in the committee, within the strict term given to us by the Supreme Council's decree, we have prepared a fairly compromise, a compromise project with which the author agreed, a subject of the legislative initiative. And in our view, there is every possibility and the committee recommends that this bill be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u148	Is there a question? Sign up. Please, Carmazin, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Oleg, I am grateful to the committee for the great work it is doing to ensure that this law is passed. Along with your personal opinion of the need to expand the recognition of the status of deported persons? Do you need it or not? First of all, should we increase? I mean, not from the 41st, but before. For the law of article 4 determines that the act of this law is deported by a person or person of the Crimean Tatar nation and then by a coma, by national minorities and by citizens of other nationalities, as well as by many. It is obvious here that there are no different interpretations, as your personal opinion, I emphasize, from this question, not the committee yet?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u150	Thank you, Your Honor Yuri Anatolyovich. When I report from the committee, I ask you to note that, I always say the committee's opinion, not the personal point of view. But since you are appealing to a personal point of view, I agree with you. But to whom we put it right, because I insisted, and I studied it, even when I wasn't a deputy, for the deportation of the Crimean Tatar population. It was a people who had been evicted, sorry for such a word. I mean, who was evicted to every person, including the one who fought in the lava of the Red Army. By the way, the collaborators, if you'll excuse me, the personal point of view, the collaborators among the Crimean Tatars were no more, and to some extent less than the representatives of other nations. And in that government, if you've asked this difficult question, in that government that was under the protection of the invaders, among the entire government only one, there was only one member of the government that was under the nationality of the Crimean Tatar, all the others were Russians and Ukrainians. [[It's archive materials I've been researching.]] Sorry, that's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u151	Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u152	Vladimir Viezowski. I wanted to make some points. Here, indeed, sometimes controversy becomes a material element, a financial element. We have a good understanding of the financial component that most of those citizens will have in one way or another already other benefits that are provided for by the Law on the Status of War Children, on the status of war participants, and on the sidelines of war. We understand that this part of the finances, which will largely overtake a very small category of citizens who have not been subject to the current laws on benefits provided by the law in force. So we understand enough that by adopting this law, we are primarily giving moral confessions to Ukrainians, to the Ukrainian state before those not honest relations with certain nations and nationalities in the territory of the former Soviet Union. I think we have to take this step and it's Christian, it's fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u153	Right, Comrade Vyezovsky, you say, well, fortunately, there is interfaith peace in Ukraine, and as you said, a sense of Christian values, moral values. That's very right. I think the Crimean Tatar people are allies in this regard, as you said. What about moral obligations? You know, Ukraine has done a lot to stage Crimean Tatars. One did, despite the fact that the State of Ukraine had not evicted any Crimean Tatars. This was done by another state with another capital. Unfortunately, Ukraine alone today bears the full burden of social, economic responsibility. For the sake of morality and justice, I think you've expressed these sentiments correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u154	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, I'd like you to sign up for factions if you'd like to speak. Yes, please, from the deputies. Please, Vladimir Moses, prepare the Chapel. Moses conveys Paul to Zebrovsky. Please Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u155	Paul Zebravsky, "Ukrainian Platform", "Cohort." I want to say that this law is an obligation for the Ukrainian Parliament to accept today, and the Crimean Tatar people are the indigenous people in Ukraine. In fact, they are people who have no other country than Ukraine and Crimea. Whoever today does not vote in favour of this law actually justifies Stalin’s actions and his wastes, which really hated everyone and everything. I am convinced that even the left, today, understand that the future is in the unity of the Ukrainian people. And the largest member of the Ukrainian people of national minorities is the Crimean Tatar people. Of course, many say that there is not enough money in the budget. Friends, Euro, spent over 80 billion dollars, half of it, sorry, stolen. I am convinced that if at least half of what was stolen were sent to the Crimean Tatar people, this question would not be at all today. And today, in fact, it is not just a matter of housing, for there is actually a need and a place of work for people to not just come and have a place to live, but for them to have a job to feed their families for. I am convinced that our faction, regardless of the number of parties involved, will all support this bill and call for the session room to vote and actually fulfil its duty to the members of the Ukrainian people of the Crimean Tatar people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u156	Yes, Mikhailo Chechetov. Behind him is Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, I think that if we are all honest with you in our European aspirations, we must naturally vote for this law today on our first reading. Why? I will formulate the essence of this law on the restoration of the rights of persons according to national characteristics. I repeat, the restoration of the rights of persons according to the national sign. What's this all about? It is a matter of legal recognition that we live in a multinational Ukrainian family, where dozens of nationalities, and we respect the right, in European terms, to every nation's right to culture, to language, to religion. I think this law has to be considered in a package with the language law we passed together, because part of you voted, you helped us. Is that what this is about? About the right, about the right to a language, about the identity of each nation in our large multinational Ukrainian family. So once again, if we are united and we are honest with people in our European aspirations, we do not just declare, so we must clearly support this point - the restoration of the rights of individuals by national means. And also as we vote together today for this law, I have no doubt that when we vote on the second reading of the Language Act, we will also vote together. I'll push one of them, one of them will help us morally, and with your support, we'll vote. And we will once again stress that we are going to Europe. We respect the right of every nation and not only respect it, but we will protect the right of every nation to national identification, to culture, to language, to language and so on. We therefore propose that the Party of the Regions invite you, Europeans and the right and left without coffee, to vote in favour of this law and then to support the Language Act within a week. So that we can truly demonstrate once again our sincere European aspirations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u158	Yavorowski. Prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u159	Well, how about you, dear voters, this approach to demagogy? Chew it? I have a historical episode in front of me. The legendary man, Andrew Sakharov, on his way back from Gornik, a member of the USSR, we sit in the hall. And he suggests that the Supreme Council of the U.S.S.R. should consider fully rehabilitating the Crimean people. There were well - fed generals, secretaries of the party's committees, who no one actually voted for it. I'm convinced that whoever, in this room and outside this hall, who doesn't understand or first wants to understand the tragedy of the Crimean Tatar people, doesn't understand anything in this world at that time. Because we Ukrainians who live here on our land know what deportations are! In 1933 millions of Ukrainians were deported to that world. We know that there was a plan by Zhukov and some even after the war to deport Ukrainians, but the wagons were not enough. And more than 40 million Ukrainians were missing! If we don't understand the tragedy of the Chechen people, the Ingus, the cabardino-balkars, who were meant to be deported, we're not going to understand anything in this world. I remember the little memories of the legendary Crimean Tatar, twice the Hero of the Soviet Union, the shiny ace that tested the planes. And one time, when the plane was on fire, it didn't throw away the parachute, but it did land this plane that was testing the latest Soviet aircraft. And when he was in Crimea, and at that point he was deported, and he tied his hands together so that he wouldn't give a rat's ass to the kagebists who took his parents and drove them to those wagons. What else are we discussing here in this room at the beginning of the 20th century, and we're still saying that everything was right and so forth?Oh, my God! I am convinced that this is our moral duty today, we must do it for the Crimean Tatars. There are no defenders other than the Ukrainians today. Because of the effort to push them out, to give the Russian and Ukrainian oligarchs warm places near the sea, the Black Sea coast, and to push them out there in Janka, there, and so on, it's unfair, it's a small deportation, too. Because besides them, no one in Crimea knows how to run. The Russians thought they would settle there, and today we have this advantage. But unfortunately, they came and "began planting potatoes" instead of doing what the Crimean Tatars who lived there for centuries did. Because we must, and opposition, united opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u160	Please, Popescu Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u161	Thank you. The sands, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the region of Cherniewec. I was born in the village of Lower Petrovitsa, the district of St. More than 300 people were deported from our village, most of whom did not return from deportation, and they did not return from Siberia, Kazakhstan, to the Arctic Circle. And when they were allowed back home in the '60s, many of our relatives were happy to be allowed back to their homes. But no one had claimed compensation at the time, no one had demanded the restoration of their rights, since there were such times. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out from the outset that I have always and deliberately voted in favour of this bill. But he also wanted to point out that, apart from the declaratory provisions in the adoption of the bill, the issue of the material and financial security of the bill should also be addressed with regard to the strengthening of social guarantees and the establishment of compensatory payments for deportees on a national basis. This should be done in view of the fact that the preparation of the 2013 State Budget project has already begun. The other one. It must also be admitted that Greeks, Bulgarians, Armenians, Germans were deported from Crimea apart from Crimea Tatars. I emphasize that deportations have also taken place from other parts of Ukraine, and they have taken place both before and after the war. For some reason, what happened before the war was not said. The next moment. It should be emphasized that part of the Hungarians who lived near the border, the male population, were deported. A Romanian-speaking population was deported from the Chernobyl region as a result of events on April 1, 1941, and 13,000 were deported on June 13, 1941, before the war. Then there were. After the war. We have to admit that the Poles were deported. But you don't have to forget that there was an operation called Vistula when the Ukrainians were deported, there was an exchange of territories. If we don't solve these issues too, there's no point in moving on, dear fellows. I'm only making this conclusion and conclusion. It must be admitted that the Crimean Tatars had a great tragedy. But you have to recognize that others have been deported, because 24 articles of the Constitution does not allow for any pressure or privileges at all, including national ones. And I want to remind you that the spirit of this very law is that you don't have to accept the principles that were applied when people were deported by a national sign. If we do not want to apply this principle, we must recognize all. Thank you for your attention. Me and the faction of the Party of Regions will vote on the basis. In preparing for the second reading, please consider and consider the points mentioned in this rostrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u162	Jaroslav Jojik. Behind him is Karmazin. Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u163	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, we pay our debts to those peoples, to those who have been oppressed by the Communist system, whom the Communist system wanted to destroy simply and drive away from its land. The point is that Ukraine has started this process of rehabilitating victims of political repression from the very beginning of our nation’s establishment. As early as 1991, the Supreme Council adopted the Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. And it was about deportation, about the so-called forced displacement, especially the national sign. A whole series of international agreements, the Bishkek Agreement, were still signed. And under these international agreements, both Russia and many other nations were to invest. Therefore, we must say today that Ukraine has made great efforts to remedy this situation, but our neighbors, other binding nations, have not even moved their fingers in this regard. Therefore, our authority today must intensify its course, its action in this direction. The other one. It is clear that we should vote in favour of this bill, which speaks of the deportation of Tatars, because the deportation of Tatars is not just destroying the Crimea territory itself once again, but the second time Ukraine has spent the money to rebuild it to build a way of doing it. So if we talk about it in this way, we have to say clearly that we're starting this process of rehabilitating victims of political repression from the Crimean Tatars, but they're being followed by Ukrainians. Who doesn't know Operation Vistula, who doesn't know how the Ukrainians moved from the Polish territory of the Ukrainian lands to our Ukrainian territory, who doesn't know those hundreds of thousands of people who migrated. Siberia from Western Ukraine and not only from Western Ukraine, and they evicted these people not only for signs of criminal crimes and so forth, but they were directly saying that they were Ukrainians who were carrying out a national-liberal struggle, and that's why they needed to be more in Russia, in Kolym, in Yakutia and bury all of these lands. So let us be honest and open. We support this bill. And the second wave of our initiatives is that we solve these problems of rehabilitation of Ukrainian victims, because there are other relationships between Poland and Poland. So I'm going to adopt this law and then pass the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u164	Yuri Carmazin. Behind him is Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u165	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is very important. I thank the author Mustafa Jamilev once again from this high rostrum for preparing him. And what I want to say is that Ukraine is going to demonstrate to all of Europe that was unable to assemble the UEFA meeting yesterday because it was an extraordinary event: European-scale fraud under the English flag happened yesterday. You don't have to worry about the state, I'm talking to UEFA officials, or you're going to be unwanted in Ukraine forever, or you're going to make an urgent decision about canceling yesterday's game, because that's unfair. We also need to now ask the questions rightly raised here about deportation, that Ukraine recognizes the deportations of peoples made in the days of the former USSR as illegal and criminal acts committed against them, and determines the restoration of rights from the number deported by one of the priorities of political, socio-economic, cultural, spiritual development of society. But in this law, I haven't seen any government commission, and I'm asking the committee to negotiate with the Russian Federation, which is the successor of the rights of that state that has evicted, which has declared criminal, where material values have migrated, all the way to the gold stock, the diamond fund and everything else that's left, the recognition of these acts as criminal, the compensation, even though partially material, the restoration of the pension rights of these citizens, and the Crimean Tatars, and others that have been talked about today. There is reason for the successors to talk about this, and there is reason for our President, our Prime Minister, to discuss these issues, to discuss them as partners with his colleague Putin, with his colleague Medvedev. That's what you have to do. You have to straighten your back, not rot it. And I propose that it be abolished for those who voted in favour of the so-called language policy, and more specifically, for the destruction of any language policy in Ukraine leading to the Balkanization, Mr. Chechetov, to the lascutation of Ukraine! And I want to remind you that there are three national languages in the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which we have approved by law. Talk to someone in Crimea in Crimea, they'll send you away because it's not being implemented. It's propaganda. It's what it says! So do not compare it with language. State.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u166	That's not the point. Baby, please. We're talking about another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u167	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I will vote in favour of this law, because historical justice must be restored. The Crimean Tatar people, who are cannibals, the bloodthirsty Stalin, have moved to hell and starved. Those who laugh, look at the historical chronicles of how much the Tatars died while they arrived in Asia, how many of them were starving to death. And this was done by the descendants of those who are sitting in the Supreme Council today and shouting. Today's authorities, just as the Stalinese had worn out, destroyed the Crimean Tatar people, wanted to destroy them, but they failed to do so, as the present power starves the Ukrainian people, including the members of this nation, the Crimean Tatars. Here's a potato, a Ukrainian potato. The price at the market is a potato I bought this Sunday at the Kozelca bazaar, in the Chernigiv region, the price of this potato is 30 kilos.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u168	Oleg. Turn off the microphone. Let's talk about the subject of the law, not the potato. Let's talk about agriculture, talk about potatoes. Either you talk about it, or I won't give it to you. Do not turn the higher legislature into a mockery. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please refer to the Ukrainian Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u169	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Ukraine’s higher legislative body should take care of Ukrainian citizens when people are deprived of their means of livelihood when grandparents, grandmothers at 80 years of age cannot sell a pound of potatoes, they have nothing to buy drugs for themselves to buy wood for, that is, the problems of the higher legislative body. And the government buys 670 bracelets a kilo. And millions of Ukrainian peasants living on potatoes and milk cannot earn a penny. And that's why it's a subject, and we all have to have a heartache when we see people being brought to the pen, how they have nothing to eat, what to buy drugs for, and how to live for. Both the Crimean Tatars and the Ukrainians and the Jews and the Ukrainian - speaking and Russian - speaking citizens suffer. Everyone suffers from this disgraceful power, and so this power needs to be pushed to the neck, and at the same time it needs to change the economic policy of the state, restrict access to the country, allow our peasants to sell potatoes, onions, Greeks and milk at normal prices. And when I go to the regionals right now, I say, "Look people in the eye," they run away from people. Because you fear them because you have nothing to say. Shame on you and this authority!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u170	Baldirev. [[B in m in s a l in]] Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u171	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! All human history is the total violence of some peoples against others. Crimean Tatars appeared in Crimea in the 13th century. Before that, there were mostly Greeks, well, of those people who are known today. And certainly you all know that in the 18th century, at the time of the reign of Catherine II, the Greeks from Crimea were relocated to the territory of the modern Donetsk region, the center of which was the city of Mariampol, now called Mariupol. And I think that's it. In my opinion, this story has no logical conclusion either. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all these "sobbings" we hear from the rostrum today, they have a very short historical distance. Yes, there is no doubt that we will support this law, but we will not support this law because of the considerations brought here by a fellow Hare or a colleague of Yavorivsky. We will support this law solely for humanitarian, humanistic reasons. And even though you shouted and laughed when my colleague Chechetov spoke, but only his statement contained truth, there was a literate interpretation of why this law was necessary. It is necessary because we treat all our citizens humanely, we treat both the Crimean Tatars humanely, and I hope that we will also be humanely treated by the Greeks if the Greeks want to return to their historic homeland, where I repeat, they were resettled in the 18th century. There are other examples. I urge you not to forget that if we are to move to Europe, if we have chosen European values, it is necessary not to create political preferences, but that these equal rights of all citizens should be given to all, including, and as my colleague of Chechetov said, to all, in matters of linguistic policy. And I call on you, on second reading, to support the law of Koleschenko-Kivalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u172	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law on the restoration of the rights of persons deported on a national basis. [[Registration number 5515]] [[13:17:52]] For three hundred The factions. Region Party – 183, BUT – 97, Our Ukraine – 42, Communists – did not vote, People's Party – 20, Reforms – 2, non-fractional – 12. The rabbit, Chechtev, in a minute, replicas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u173	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Here, Mr. Baldirev spoke of a very short distance, we are today sifting and evicting Tatars. This distance, Mr. Baldiriev, was tens and hundreds of thousands of lives, not just of Tatars, but of Ukrainians, and of other nations. You need to know that as such an expression of humanity. And now you're talking about the humane policy of the Party of Regions. We see this humane policy today in terms of peasants, where milk can't be sold, where potatoes can't really be sold. We see this humane policy towards small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, where they just steal and destroy. And we see this humane policy in this room where you want to destroy the Ukrainian language, where you want to destroy the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian nation. And you call that human policy? It's a policy of bandits, it's a policy that views Ukraine as a territory, not a state. It's a policy that doesn't take into account any interest of the root nation, no interest of the common man. That's how you put politics, it's not going to work, you're not going to get what you're counting on in these elections, because you want to start a Ukrainian house, a Ukrainian house. We're proud to have peace and quiet for 20 years, and you're smoking because you're stealing, gerastrating, and Ukrainianophobic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u174	That's right, dear fellows! Dear colleagues! Calm down, calm down! I repeat, no national MP will get one second if he speaks out of law. You want to pat your tongues, go to the session room and prepare for the election, and here you can discuss what's going on with the bill, not what you want, about potatoes, about the drum, about other questions. You can speak there if you listen to these questions. Mikhail Vasilovich, please sit down, let's move on to another.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u175	Carmazine named his last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u176	But Carmazin calls each family. Mikhail Vasilovich, sit down. We are considering a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the abolition of unjustified benefits and privileges for persons authorized to perform functions of the State. [[Registration number 9403]] Please, Joey Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u177	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. If we look at the entire previous period. And I have a full 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u178	You have 10 minutes and 5 minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u179	If we look at the entire previous period of Ukrainian independence, especially before the elections, there was a mass of populist laws that gave benefits to some categories. According to experts at the Institute of Demographics and Social Research, the National Academy of Sciences in 2011, almost 45 percent or 7.66 million households had at least one tipsman. According to official data, there are 45 types of social benefits available to some 18 million people. A valuable assessment of the need for State-guaranteed budgeting, social benefits and assistance, according to their regulation, is worth 249 billion dollars in 2012 terms. The State Budget Act 2012 for State-guaranteed social payments and aid, together with all laws, provides 78 billion dollars, a deviation of 171 billion dollars. This is the source, the analytics of Min. Soc-politics. The main problem with this approach was that the proposed expenditure was not secured by income. Each new fiscal year began with the problems of balancing income and expenditure. Today’s authorities have launched a massive attack on the benefits. A long list of the steps that have been taken can be found. I'll make a list of just some. Decision of the Constitutional Court on the conformity of the Constitution with section VII, paragraph 4, of the Act on the State Budget 2011 on 26 December. In the present case, the restriction on the right to social assistance was expressed in the fact that Kabmin was entrusted with ensuring such payments not in the order of its size established by the Laws on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, on the social protection of children of war and on the pension security of persons released from military service and some others, but in the order and size defined by him. In doing so, the Office of Ministers of Ukraine must be pushed away, not from the regulations of the law, but from the available financial resources of the Pension Fund budget. This already mentioned a narrowing of content and a possible narrowing of the right to social assistance for Chernobyl, children of war, and military personnel. Yes, in place of payments due under the law, Kabmin was paid tens or hundreds of times lower. For example, pensions for non-working pensioners living in the area of increased radio frequency control, according to article 39 of the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, should have increased by one minimum wage of 1004 in December 2011. Instead, the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 6.07.2011 745, which was adopted to implement paragraph 4 of Chapter VP of the State Budget 2011 Act, provided them with a supplement of 5.2 bracelets, 193 times lower. And so with all the other benefits that have been reduced to a minimum. The 2012 budget also contains a standard according to which the Cabinet of Ministers regulates the amount of social payments by hand. The Transitional Positions of the Law enshrine the government's right to adjust the distribution of social benefits. Of course, such an approach caused a profound lack of acceptance of society. Because all of these radical actions applied to the most socially vulnerable groups of the population. What about the national MPs themselves? The State Budget Act 2012 provides for the abolition of a series of aids granted to nationals by halting a series of articles of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies. In particular, the effect of article 20 on the payment to members of the Council of Material Assistance in the size of a working parliamentary salary has been halted for the period of its employment of 50 per cent of the salary in the event of non-employment; on the payment of material assistance to deputies for the recovery of a double monthly salary; and on the payment of assistance in the amount of 12-month official salaries for deputies working on retirement. In addition, the Council has suspended the right of pensioners to use rail, water, air or car transport once a year, as well as to receive medical treatment, hospital or clinic travel. The suspension of the rules on compulsory state life insurance and the health of MPs, their provision of health-care routes for sanatorium treatment, and the payment of one-time monetary compensation for the creation of adequate housing conditions. For assistant counsellors, a lump sum of three months' wages is cancelled. It should be noted that, with a large number of cancelled benefits, most of them are not used by their deputies, and eventually they do not have a professional need. It is estimated that at the level of 2011 expenditure, the debt relief savings for the national deputies in 2012 amount to 35 million dollars. But the main disadvantage here is that the economy is indicative, the benefits are not actually cancelled and automatically restored in the new fiscal year. All of this allows the authorities, the Party of Regions, to report that we have fulfilled our promises, eliminated our parliamentary benefits. That's the double standard, let's push it together, but at the expense of the common people, belts have the most negative impact on the attitude of ordinary citizens to power. The project that we are proposing is to accept the cancellation of the benefits to the people’s deputies once and for all. In particular, the project proposes to remove the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies, which provide for: the payment of material assistance to former national deputies, the inability to work, the right to travel free of charge in all forms of urban transport, the right of former national deputies to provide free travel for treatment, and, after retirement, transportation to hospitals, or other needs, for treatment and treatment. People's deputies' right to free travel for sanatorium treatment. The right to a one-time compensation for the creation of adequate housing conditions. It is suggested that the free use of the National Deputies by official delegations be waived. It is proposed to remove part of article 20 of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies, which provides that the National MP is given an annual paid leave during the intersessional period of 45 days with the payment of material assistance for recovery on a double monthly basis. I want to emphasize that. That, according to the scientific and expert opinion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the following conclusion is: the proposed changes are correct and can be supported, as they foresee the elimination of fields that are not directly related to the exercise of parliamentary activity. The general conclusion of the scientific and expert management: a bill can be adopted as a basis for consideration in the plenary session, taking into account the comments made and the proposals put forward. People’s deputies John the Rabbit and Yuri Kostenko, as well as Jaroslav Jodzik, are the authors of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u180	Sign up for questions. Please, five minutes, Stoyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u181	Five, right? Jaroslav Ivanovich, really the law you've been talking about is right and it's unfair when the Constitutional Court decides whether to issue or not to issue compensation to black people or Afghans or children of war. You mentioned the national MPs, but I have a question: do we really need to leave the national deputies the benefits they have? But why or whether your law provides for the elimination of aid at the level of central authorities, such as the Cabinet of Ministers, the President and his office. Because today, when the Ukrainian people are almost impoverished. The president buys new helicopters that are more expensive than the U.S. President, the Mercedes are underground buying new helicopters. It lives 150 acres [150 ha] in a residence of hundreds of millions of taxes collected from the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u182	Thank you for asking. I want to stress that I fully support your approach, which is that when Ukraine as a state continues to be in an economic crisis and when it comes to saving, it is necessary to save everyone and to start with power. All these expenses that you're saying in the purchase of helicopters, they're not regulated by a special law. They, the cost of all these helicopters, are provided for in the State Budget Act for the current year. So, obviously, when we critically appreciated the adoption of the budget for this year, it's obvious that when the budget was approved for the following year, it's not necessary to allow such a cost to be incurred for the State Administration. From which all these expenses are financed. But the subject of this bill is the benefits that apply to national MPs, and there are benefits that apply to workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u183	Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u184	Petrenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Please pass the word to the Elder.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u185	The ceiling microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u186	Upstairs, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Dear reporter! In your report, you said very well how many people we have. But the emphasis was placed solely on the national MPs. The previous question was about the government and the President. But what I'm saying is that the benefits are now being used, except for those categories that are already named, prosecutors, judges, customs, and several other categories. And there are benefits, not 450 people, but thousands! And that's why I think we're going to support this bill, and we have to decide it eventually, but we also have to look at other categories. Because when you're in a city or a village: whose house is the judge, whose house is the prosecutor, whose house is another judge, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u187	Dude, I totally support your approach. And I tried to answer the previous question, but the time for answers is up. The bill provides for the abolition of benefits and privileges that are not related to the performance of their duties to civil servants in the first and second categories, prosecutors, prosecutors, and prosecutors. And I fully agree with your approach to preparing for the second reading to predict the judiciary. () [[B in m in s a l in]] And the President and the President! I totally agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u188	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u189	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter, there are two problems in this problem. The first is the question of the benefits of the deputies themselves. And the second is the question of how these benefits are provided. I think we really need to expand the list of people about the benefits, because, in fact, there is a President, there are members of the government. We know that there are so-called government houses and many, many other things. We know that all these highlanders have hundreds of acres of land under their houses and don't pay, because the fourth zone and so forth. There are still hidden benefits -- it's when the cost of using natural resources is low. Judges are given free apartments, and we see how they judge. How do you feel about getting out on a wider scale today and ending these benefits? Of course, we should start with the deputies, for they are today legislators and today they should show this example. Or they don't go to work and they say we've given up our salary. And who votes for you, with what cards when you go? Such deputies should not be in the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u190	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the draft Law is called "To amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the abolition of unjustified benefits and privileges for persons authorized to perform the functions of the State." That is, the very title of the bill provides for the expansion of the circle of these individuals, whom we predict to be deprived of their benefits. Therefore, it is evident that after the adoption of this bill in the first reading in preparation for the second reading, we will have the opportunity to expand the list of those persons whom we want to deprive. And that's why I'm hoping for a party of regions, which already says that it has fulfilled its pre-election promises, because this bill does not provide for the removal of the benefits just this year, but foresees the removal of the benefits forever, obviously, I hope to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u191	Please, from the committee, first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Olga Borisovna Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u192	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland. The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies invited to the meetings, discussed on February 22, this year the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the lifting of unjustified benefits and privileges for persons authorized to perform the functions of the State. According to the authors of the bill, it is proposed to cancel or restrict the unjustified benefits and privileges imposed by the national deputies of Ukraine, government officials, prosecutors, prosecutors, and prosecutors who are not involved in their duties. The main scientific and expert management generally supports the idea of reducing the benefits for certain categories of people, but believes that the changes envisaged by the bill are not complex. At the same time, the general conclusion of the board states that the first reading of the bill may provide a basis for adoption. The budget committee on the basis of the draft bill's consideration has decided that the bill reduces budget spending and informs the Ministry of Finance that it supports the adoption of the bill. The Ministry of Social Policy supports the bill. The Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, made a number of observations on the proposed bill in part of the amendment to the Act on the Status of the National MP of Ukraine and noted that it was preparing complex changes to that law, in view of which it considered it appropriate to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. In its conclusion, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine notes that a set of institutional and economic measures aimed at ensuring the social protection of law enforcement officials is based on the nature of their duties and a range of specific requirements and restrictions. So the benefits referred to by the drafters of the bill are essentially social guarantees for the professional activity of this category of workers. In view of the above, the Office of the Attorney-General considers that the bill is insufficiently justified. The Committee on State Building of Local Self - Government does not deny the idea of reducing the benefits of a certain category of persons, but believes that the bill does not have a systemic character, since it foresees the cancellation or limitation of benefits for only three categories of working persons. In addition, some positions of the bill are unclear or insufficiently substantiated, for example with regard to the removal of the Ukrainian National Deputy for the right to annual paid leave, although such a right is not a benefit but a constitutional right of all citizens, as well as an amendment to the article on encouraging the conscientious work of civil servants. Also in the amendment to the Ukrainian State Service Act, the Committee notes that as of 1 January 2013, a new version of the Act has become effective. Thus, the bill in this part actually lost its relevance because the legislation does not contain any provisions concerning the institution of resignation for which amendments are proposed by the author of the bill. In view of what has been said, the committee recommends that the bill be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u193	If you have any questions, please sign in. Yes, please, three minutes, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u194	Olga Borisovno! Well, first of all, I want to thank you and your committee, because your performance was surprisingly peaceful, reasonable and reasoned. But tell me, please, is your committee going through the experience or knowledge of the experience of other states or something similar to the circus that was offered to us here by jojik, whether there is a parliament somewhere in the world that is completely deprived of its authority. What can this look like?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u195	Thank you very much. I want to say that certainly no parliament in the world has any power over receiving any social benefits. So I don't mind personally canceling the benefits. I've just read the comments that I've heard from our committee, yes, which, for example, relate to vacations for national MPs, like for Ukrainian citizens. In this case, I also agree with the committee's decision, it's not a benefit. But as for the benefits to be abolished and everyone has the same rights under the Constitution, this, I think, should be an axiom.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u196	Upstairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u197	Upstairs, the faction of "Timoshenko the Block of July" is "The Fatherland." Dear Olga Borisovno! First of all, you should probably answer your call, which probably doesn't have any parliament, where the MPs from most of them play the piano with buttons. That's the first one. And secondly, I know for sure that there are countries where prime ministers, ministers go to work on bicycles, not on Mercedes. And so maybe there's just one more bill that would apply to Kabmin to take all these government houses, take all the cars away so they don't get fat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u198	Thank you very much. In addition to what you have said, I can say that the People's Deputies from "The Motherhood of Motherhood" of Yulia Timoshenko have just prepared an appropriate bill which provides for an extradition for public use in service purposes of cars exclusively of Ukrainian origin and also for the corresponding price and for certain categories of workers. He can ride on his own too, but at the expense of compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u199	Please, Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u200	Dear Olga Borisovna, I have listened carefully to the report of the author of the bill. And yet I think it's mostly another pyar action. Why? Because there's too much distance, even if we take it first-reading, first-to-second, and it'll go somewhere. For example, I have not heard that today, apart from the benefits that there are, there is an overexpenditure that is simple. Here are the flights. Mr. Sánchenko of the U.S.B.T. overspent his limit by 130,000. Is that normal? And there's a list on four sheets. There's the economy. But in order not to interfere with anyone's benefits, I suggest this option. He will be supported by our constituents. I'm writing a personal application to the Supreme Council tomorrow that I'm asking you to deprive me of all my benefits, but together with Mr. Jojik and Zayj. They put it on the table, so everyone today will show who is who in Ukraine. That would be a normal, good approach. And there will be no more talk of benefits. I'm ready tomorrow, once again, with Comrade Jojik, take a statement to the table. Please, look, I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u201	I understand you perfectly. That's a nice phrase, which is basically just a nice phrase. You understand perfectly that even if you write that fluorescence letter, it will in no way affect your situation today, because you have the full right not to take advantage of what your legislation provides. And that'll be very nice of you. Because I want to say that it would also be good for the national MPs who are not in the audience, as we can see, playing the piano -- voting for someone sitting there, yes -- it would be very nice if they refused to get their salary. And that would be a nice fill of our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u202	Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the performance. from the deputies. Yes, we have 14 minutes left, unfortunately. Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! Well, as a representative of the MP's Reform for the Future, maybe I won't say enough nice things to those who have made such proposals, but maybe quite pleasant to those who will vote "against." We think it's a purely populist law. It is intended to please you, those who introduce it and vote it, to the electorate as well as to the former one who applied to the Crimean Tatar nation. You know that both the first and the second, it's probably not going to come to the second reading, and you get it clearly. Not enough, in fact, let us speak the truth even once in this Parliament. Let's talk about what, apart from the pianist and the attempt to use the kind of psychological maneuver that's called transferring the problem from one person to another, it's called "whitening itself." It was as if no one noticed that you were the deputies who had received this for five years. Well, what are you doing? You can't get Ukraine to like you. To be liked by voters before we're called "self-sacrifices." So what are you doing? What's next, the ones who brought it in? But you do the following, you do the following, you're digging up not only yourself, but also government officials. Why are you dragging them there? State officials today in the 2012 budget have?What??filled, protected articles of expenditure for nine months, no motivation for life, none. What are you doing? Let's talk about the next one, I'm supporting the thesis that just occurred from this, on this side of the hall. Excuse me, personally, write your applications, give up your benefits -- that's what's important, and do it. As for the fact that, well, if the law violates the Constitution of Ukraine, when it is clearly stated that every citizen of Ukraine is entitled to an annual vacation. If today there is every right to pay back in the event of a loss of a breadwinner, namely, a Ukrainian national deputy, who has been disbursed, why can we cancel it? It's the protection of people, it's the protection of all of us. Don't give stupid examples. Not much if you're writing about what a civil servant is today in the event of retirement should have nothing, is it in the Act on State Service that we've adopted, is it not, what does this have to do with today's case? So we urge you to do this: It is time for you, say, as the peacocks go before the electorate may end. Open your real faces and take care of yourself. write your statements with a pen. We will not vote in favour of this shameful bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u204	Gnatkevitch, BUT faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, an interesting question at an interesting election time. You know, I was an MP for the first time and I was breaking down the old system. I remember the revolutionary mood of the workers, as they were then called. And you know why workers didn't like the Communist system the most? And they didn't like her for special forces, for specialty stores. Do you remember crossing a car with meat? Some meat or sausage was taken by someone. And people are angry. Oh, in the Chernigow region, says Laszko. You know what was built on, basically, the social component of this revolution back then? For what was the hatred of the workers up until then, as they said, exploiters, one could say. Dear colleagues, the people don't like MPs. I am part of this part of the deputies who travel daily by route and subway. I walk barefoot to the beach in the morning, he's in front of me, I hear what people say, I wake up in the morning, I wake up, the people of MPs don't like it, he hates them. I go to the market and I act sometimes, you know, as an instigator. Why is that? I'm saying, you know, there's the president's social initiatives now, it's gonna get better. Oh, it'll get better! And it ends up on the MPs, it's all the thieves out there, it's all on top of you. Everyone's just thinking about themselves. And even if the Party of Regions now, which I believe in little, votes in favour of canceling these benefits for the MPs, and more and more, all the benefits, the people will say, but they're lying, they've only passed such a law, and they'll twist it all the way to live the way they live now. Dear colleagues, I think. By the way, they don't like this one the most, that we get the treatment benefits of 30,000 or how much. In fact, they say 70,000, 120 thousand, they're doing whatever they want. So in order for the people of the deputies to love us, our faction proposes to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. In addition, vote to consider the elimination of all benefits as well as the unjust property that has been incurred as a result of these benefits. To see how privatized things like "Mijgiriya" have been built by current prosecutors of their houses, which are scary to look at. Are there really gold toilets in some of our superiors? That is, to consider this law in a complex of inviolability, elimination of the benefits and unjust profit of the oligarchs and the party that now supports them with property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u206	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Prepare Mankowski, the faction of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u207	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Ladies and gentlemen, how are we going to vote for this bill? Well, let's vote for this bill. Is it complex? No, it's not complex, colleagues. It's not complex at all, if you want to know. Why? Where is the executive power? None. Where is the Constitutional Court? None. You want to save money, and we have 57 million dollars allocated for the funding of 18 judges of the Constitutional Court. 300 people are a machine. None of them are short. There's been a series of contractions -- there's no one there. Where is the complexity of the approach? Please tell me what changes need to be made to the laws and laws so that there are no towns in Conchi Zaspa and so on. So that there will be no further financing and maintenance of these towns. What laws should be passed so that whoever comes after the predecessors says that I have so bad here, Mercedes, you see, didn't repair Julia Volodymyrna because she ate on her own. You see the sin she has committed on her way, so she is now in prison. And they fly to strangers. Not to build the Marian Palace, which is now being destroyed, is being destroyed, but to throw several times more money on the site, 105 million dollars to sit on helicopters. That's why it's not complex, colleagues, a bill, although I'm going to vote for this framework bill. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill should be clearly linked to this, and what is happening in the state today? And there's banditry, if you could get off Odessa early in the morning, get here by train, all Ukrainian citizens, now these trains are cancelled. Now we have to leave just after lunch and God knows when, why? And here the experimenters are sitting where who represents Kolesnik, where is the Ministry of Fairytales, which privatizes the railway? And I warned you, don't take the laws, and now Kolesnik and Kozak, you know, you get completely Ukrainian people by canceling trains and not only from Odessa, you get from Kharkiv, and from Lviv, you get around where you run the cross there, or you stand the crosses, but we'll let that happen. Because of this, the benefit has to be taken completely and fundamentally from everyone, and it has to be extended, and here I agree with those who criticize this law, but I will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u208	Mankovsky's passing Chechtov, please. And after him, there's Jebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u209	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! That's the difference between reality and populist demagogism. The author here said that we should cancel. I'm saying we've been canceled. You're not surprised, gentlemen of the Future and the Change Front, when you come in the day to take a trip, by the way, free of charge, and they'll tell you you're not set. And you say, how come we didn't vote for canceling free travel? And they'll tell you: The party of the regions has already cancelled. You will flee to the cash register, the representatives of BUT and the Change Front, to request material assistance in order to land on Canary and Maldives. They'll tell you, you're not set. And you say we didn't cancel that we're suicides for ourselves? And they'll tell you, the Party of the Regions cancelled. You go to the next office and ask for a free apartment, give me an apartment as an MP, I'm talking about the Change Front and the Fatherland. And they'll tell you, it's not laid down. And you say, "We didn't cancel." And they'll tell you: a party of regions cancelled, cancelled. Gentlemen, be like everyone else! There was a call for you to know that you cancelled free tram travel, on the trolleybus, on the subway, and so on. Of course, if you look at which cars you're driving, you don't know what a subway is, what a tram is. And the representatives of the Party of the Regions are on the subway, on the tram and on the trolleybus, not for the fact that there are no cars there, but for what needs to be done both on the subway and on the tram and on the trolleybus to talk to the citizens about their problems. We drive sometimes and pay. So absolutely right, we already wanted to vote, God is with him, we will vote, as it is said, not to speculate. But when your "political star" appeared, the vice-chairman of the committee, the "political star" of the opposition, said you couldn't vote for him. But if your representatives say it's oil and we can't vote, we believe them, we can't vote. However, I repeat, you do not insult the apparatus, or by habit you will demand free travel. We've already cancelled, yes, don't insult the apparatus, advise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u210	Grabrovsky and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u211	Paul Žebrovsky, Ukrainian platform "The Council". I'm sad about the fact that on the one hand and on the other hand, they're trying to turn each other in, and then you come to people and tell people, and I'm not like the other, but I'm different. Friends! In fact, stop watering each other with dirt, let's look at those who do eventually in Parliament. 50-70 MPs actually write laws, actually work up to a hundred people in parliament. But they call everyone and everyone. As a result, be human. In fact, you think if the injection of another, it's made him more honest and smarter -- no, he got even more into the dirt. Now for the second question. Mr. Michael, don't lie, you stopped and voted only in this year's budget for these benefits for one year. And this is actually a huge lie. In fact, there are no benefits or privileges to be eliminated today. And for this pre-election year, it's true that the budget has stopped these norms, not overturned the law of profiling, and that's not true. In general, I think benefits and privileges are old-fashioned. I think there must be some variation today in terms of the average wage, including the national deputies and others. There can be no gap between the average wage and the salary of senior officials in dozens of ways. That's not right. In fact, it can be six times as different. Today, the difference between the minimum wage and the salary of high-income workers is 15 times a hell of a breakup. And when we actually come to people, people say, you need a formula. And this formula, of course, is a multiple. And it can't be more than in European countries six times. With regard to benefits and privileges. I am convinced that in order to demand the help of other officials, Ukraine’s national deputies must be deprived of their own benefits. Then they will have the moral right to speak about other categories of people. If we want to raise the status of a civil servant, they need to raise the wages, not produce them like lice, sorry. And for today, it's not really declarant, it's really reducing the number by defining the function of civil servants. And then you can actually pay them a good salary. Of course, there should be no 17 pension laws, there should be 1 pension law. I think this law needs to be supported, and if we start with ourselves, then we'll have a moral right to talk about upgrading the benefits for all categories of population in Ukraine, that's an honest position. And do not water one another with filth, for all of you, including us, will become dirtier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u212	Yes, the discussion is over. [[B in m in s a l in]] Very simple, it's been 14 hours 01 minutes. Yes, please, jojik a minute, closing down. And the hare's got nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u213	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, in real political life, we often witness double standards. And today we have a very vivid example of this. Chechetov recently confirmed, in fact, all the things I had been saying so far. He was talking about the fact that they've all canceled the benefits, but they did a little bit, "a little bit," he didn't say, saying that they only canceled for this year. And not a word that it's a pear, that it's a circus, that you haven't heard from any of their factions. Our bill is almost 80 percent supported by 80 percent of those norms adopted by the ruling coalition. But there's only one difference that he's not doing it this year, he's doing it forever. And all of those who wanted to make this pear before the election, when there's an attempt to completely eliminate the benefits, we're already doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u214	Thank you. Please sit down, 14.03, the time is up, we have no right to vote. Who Called the Hare? The hare is about to give up all his benefits, please make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u215	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Here I have an MP from the Party of Regions, another from the Reformation for the Future saying that it's a populist bill, that he fell out of the sky somewhere, and so on. Yeah, well, I want to tell you, you're like the widow who asked for herself. Why? Since we did not give anything new, we gave only that year as if we were depriving the aid. And we want it to be permanent. That's why you asked for yourself. That's the first one. And the second. I reject that thesis that we limit ourselves to the MP Corps. You read it, it's about high-ranking first and third graders. That's why there are ministers and other things. And we need to understand, if we want to clean up the power of the institution of corruption, we also need to clean up the benefits. Let's pay and demand. But we have 300 deputies who don't need this salary. Hence, they have in general enslaved the motivation for the wages of all citizens. Let's implement the policies of an expensive labor force, raise the wages of all people and raise ourselves, and then not the benefits of giving to ourselves by billions, but to give people one penny. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-20-m0.u216	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Mikhail Vasilovich, you will answer tomorrow. Answer tomorrow, you'll answer tomorrow. Dear colleagues, we will vote. But I think those who hear us and see us are extremely wise people and understand everything. Someone wants to cancel something, it doesn't work, don't go to the cash register, don't get paid. Someone wants to cancel something, don't run and get in line and don't get your travels to the sanatorium. Here will be your personal example, and everything will be fine. That's how we talk, talk, know what we're talking about. And we only talk when the elections are right. I'm voting on the committee's proposal, right, the committee, to get the subject back to work. And the authors propose to take the basis. The committee's decision. I am voting on the committee’s decision to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Take down the vote. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, would you please show me where it is written that the MP's initiative, rather than the committee's decision, is the first one? Show me, please. Show me, please. Okay, we're just going to make an exception for the Hare, but that's not the norm. Especially for the Hare. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the first reading, the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to abolish unjustified benefits and privileges for persons authorized to perform functions of the State. [[14:07:02]] For a hundred and Factions, factions. Regional Party – 1, BUT – 85, Our Ukraine – 31, Communists – 24, The People's Party did not vote, reforms – 2, non-fractional – 7. I am voting on the committee's proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[14:07:42]] For 237 The factions, please. And let those who hear us draw conclusions. Region Party – 170, BUT – 8, "Our Ukraine", initiators – 4, communists – 25, National Party – 19, reforms – 2, non-fractional – 9. That's it, dear fellows, you're preparing for the election. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Please hold a committee meeting today. Because you and I, unfortunately, have a lot of debt in this area.
